I can't believe 53rd and 6th halal has its own review thingamajig. A part of me doesn't want to rave about how good it is because I don't want the line getting any longer than it already is. But I won't be selfish. Go for the combo and their hot sauce is HOT.
This is a world renowned food cart, serious! ?People from all over the world know that if they visit Manhattan they must stop by the chicken and rice cart at 53rd and 6th. ?I first found out about this place several years ago when I was staying at the Hilton which is right next to the cart. ?I was out drinking and finally decided to go back to the hotel at about 3am. ?As I was walking down 53rd I noticed this massive line and was very curious as to what these people were waiting for. ?Then I see it, a little street corner food cart. ?I thought these people were crazy to be standing in line at such an hour for food from a street vendor. ?So what did I do? ?I got in line and ordered what everyone else was ordering, the chicken and rice with white sauce. ?Now I am one of those crazy people that stops by the chicken and rice cart whenever I am in town.
I was told about the place by Yelper Luis M. Since I was actually staying at the Hilton in front of it I had to try it. 4 times. Yes, it's definitely tasty and cheap. No, I can't give it 5 stars. I got sick of it after the 4th time. Every night I was amazed with how long the line was. 1am, 2am, 3am...always a huge line. ?This place even has a wikipedia entry: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ch? The chicken and rice with white sauce is the thing. The gyro is not bad either.
As far as cart food goes, this place is the cream of the crop! I'm a food fanatic and I will admit that I have what I like to call a 'refined palate' (other people call me a food snob or simply picky *smirk*) - normally, I wouldn't be caught dead eating out of a food cart. BUT, as a regular at the Hilton next door, I've seen hour long lines outside this cart at all hours of the night no matter what season for years now. Last night, I came into town with a couple coworkers and we decided to head out for drinks. After walking around for about a half hour, we ended up at 53rd and 6th and the line was super long! Feeling adventurous, we decided to get in line! Having seen many versions of the 'soup nazi' - one being a sandwich shop where I grew up in Princeton, NJ - I was not happy not knowing what to order or how. SO, while my coworkers stood in line, I snuck to the front and listened in on the orders. Very quickly I realized that the Halal cart staff was FAR from rude and terse. People took their time ordering and even chit chatting to the owner while waiting for their food. It was a very friendly atmosphere. Here's what I learned if you want to be prepared. They serve lamb and chicken. They serve it two ways: in a gyro, which is a big pita filled with lettuce, some other stuff and your meat of choice with white sauce and hot sauce on top; as a combo, which is a togo aluminum plate filled with lettuce and yellow rice (fried I guess) with your choice of meat on top and white sauce and hot sauce and cut up pita bread. You can order either without any sauce and put however much you'd like yourself as they have a condiments wall on the side of the cart. This is what we did as we had no idea what the sauces are and we were warned by a lady in the line that the red sauce is SUPER HOT. OH and was it HOT! My one coworker who got the lamb combo put a bunch of it all over his plate assuming it was something similar to sriracha. Boy was he wrong! He likes hot food and he was sweating buckets and sucking down water as he ate his dish. So be careful!! The white sauce is some kind of yogurt sauce that is much more watery than mayo. It really brings out the taste in the meat. I enjoyed dabbing my chicken pieces in the hot sauce but I treated it like wasabi - in fact, less than that, I literally would put a tiny spot of it on a bite and it was more than enough to put a fire in my mouth. I think it's habanero based or something. Overall, it was a fantastic experience...I can only imagine how great it would be after a night out drinking. I always get the munchies and this would totally hit the spot! Would I go back? Probably not - but only because I'm extremely health conscious and can only imagine the high calories in one of those!
dude. So good. ?This was probably the best meal I've had that was made in less than 5 minutes. ?Except maybe some of the stands in the night markets in Taiwan I've had. ? Their chicken plate with rice and salad was to DIE for. ?Came here the next day for dinner again and their chicken gyro was awesomely GOOD. ?and for $5?? HELL YEAH. Definitely my meal of choice in NYC. ?Grab $5, get a plate/sandwich to go, sit, and enjoy..........mmmmmmm............. droooool. ?ask for the hot sauce. and white sauce. mix it together. drizzel over plate. experience orgasm that comes in your mouth afterwards. ?lots of carts out there claiming to be the original gyro truck but this is the real deal.
It's pretty standard cart fare. ?Good white sauce. ?But pretty average.
Each time I go to NYC I try my very best not to eat at the same places unless there are work-time restrictions. Of course, if we are talking about the 53rd and 6th Ha-lal-lal cart I will revisit as much as possible. I don't mind waiting for 30 mins for a steaming hot foil container filled with goodness. I always get the rice place. I love standing in line and a couple of the regular New Yorkers ask for the "bowl with jai-ro meat, white sauce - one regular, one spicy." I've had the chicken, the jai-ro meat as well as the year-ro meat, no matter how to pronounce it, it all amounts to one mouth-watering dish of fast, fresh, Pakistani, food. Just beware, I love spicy but whatever the red dragon sauce they serve on top of these dishes it's not for the mild-to-medium folk.
AMAZING! this cart...yes a cart...serves up better food than some restaurants i've been to.we went there at about 1am and the line was so long it was almost 2 when we got our food. get the combo that was you can experience chicken and lamb. ohhhhh mannnnnn sooooo goooooood! lol. i wouldnt ever ever leave the city without goin' to this place. it has now become one of the must-do's of NYC! 53rd and 6th cant miss it. Happy Eating!
OK, I'm totally guessing that this is the Halal Cart I ate at today... I had my first falafel. It was great - I got it with the hot sauce, which turned out to be not as hot as I thought it would be, but that was okay. It balanced out the flavor of what I'm gonna guess was hummus inside, and the explosion of textures and tastes in my mouth was pretty amazing. Falafels. I am sold. But I think I liked my friend's lamb gyro just a little better ;) It was a good food experience though, for sure. I'm going to be on the lookout for the perfect falafel once I get back to California.
This is by far, the BEST Halal Cart ever. ?$5 for an entire gyro plate. ?But you must go between 7pm - 4am. ?Any other time of the day, a poser cart may be standing there.... These are POSERS. Think about it, why else would folks stand out in the freezing cold for an hour long line for Halal cart food past midnight? No official website... but a fan site!! ?What kind of NY food cart gets a fan site? ?Experience for youself 53rdand6th.com This is seriously the best bang for the buck Gyro plate and sandwich you'll ever eat.
i went to this cart at like midnight cus i was hungry and i had a bad case of hives. the rice platta with chicken was supposed to make myself feel better since i didn't go out with my friends that night. the guy who prepared my food took FOREVURRRH. okay, yeh, maybe the nights get a tad bit on the slow side and four girls coming up to you for your service gets you all riled up and crap, but how long does it f'in take to make three hotdogs and a rice platter? especially when people were starting to line up! anyway, i got my food and he put in HELLA tahini sauce cus i requested it. food was good, but i prefer the other cart across the street that's opened during the day, cus he knows how i like my tahini sauce. when it comes to tahini sauce - i don't play, sir! oh yeh, another thing. the guy who made my food has no shame at all. when he gave me my food, he also gave me a kiss on the cheek. wtf? no shame....
I always wondered why this street vendor had consistently long lines at all hours of the day. Now I know why. Their plates are delicious, especially the pita bread-- hot, just the right amount of grease, and perfectly toasty. It definitely hit the spot late at night. 53rd & 6th is definitely an OINY thing (Only In New York ;) ?If only SF had something like this.
I'm certainly no expert on the gyro, but this was very good. ?I had the combo sandwich for $4 and it was incredibly filling and delicious. ?Very juicy meat. NOTE: As we were waiting in the 20 minute line, we noticed there was a very similar cart on the SE corner of the intersection with absolutely no line (this cart is on the SW corner). ?My girlfriend wandered over to see what that cart was about. ?They wear the same shirts and have essentially the same menu. ?The proprietor of the SE cart said it was the same as the SW cart. ?When we ordered from the SW cart, the proprietor confirmed that both carts are the same company, but that the SW cart (the original) "is older...everybody knows him." ?I'll have to try the SE cart before making a judgment, but I think it's worth a try. ?It might make sense to buy from the SE cart unless, as my girlfriend hypothesized, people actually enjoy waiting in line for the gyro because they actually like the anticipation.
I was surprised to see a review on a street-meat cart but I am so glad I read ther reviews and then found this cart. Excellent value and very tasty chicken rice plate - the falafel was great too. Go easy on the hot sauce though. We fed a family of six for less than $25.
This shit is the bomb! If you're out clubbing in the Big Apple and craving some bomb ass grub when you're drunk, hike over to this street vendor on 53rd and 6th, next to the Hilton in the financial district. ?The line stretches for blocks late at night, so try and get their early. ?They serve a dish called chicken over rice, which pretty much tastes like a chicken soft taco from Del Taco, but better! ?Only order it spicy if you can take the heat and dont' mind sitting on the toilet the next morning with an a-hole on fire. Even if the vendor probably breaks every health code violation in the book, your drunk ass wouldn't care. I sure didn't! ?Someone needs to franchise this to LA and take out the dirty club dogs they serve in Hollywood.
For $5, the portions and flavors are well worth the wait, no matter what the temperature. ?I always get the lamb and chicken with rice combo. ?Just eat it while it's fresh, since it loses a bit of it's magic when reheated.
Everytime I hear about this cart, or even as I glance over the existing reviews for this place on the side bar as I'm writing this one *ding* a bell goes off in my head and immediately the Pavlovian response of salivating begins. I am literally swallowing a bunch of saliva at the moment trying not to drool over my keyboard. Other than the line up, this place is great. You see I love street meat and this place definitely gets the "street" into the "meat". ?Easily having the best street cred of all the carts around. Chicken & Rice + Hot Sauce - $ = #$@#$@%! Amazing meal that will hit the spot for sure. Especially after a night of drinking or aimless wandering.
This place is good. ?This place is &^%$ing good. ?Damn. ?And it's got tons of strange fobs / desis / etc around it. ?A fantastic experience
one of the few lines in manhattan i'll happily stand in
Average for a Halal Cart. ?These carts are all over the city and I've had better. ?I work near this one and was always curious by the extremely long line (always at least 1/2 a block). ?Finally I lined up, and about 30 minutes later ordered a chicken and lamb combo over rice. ?The portion was very large, but the taste was nothing special. ?You can get the same style of food for the same price at countless carts nearby without a line. ? I was most surprised by how slowly they served; they have 4 people working the cart but seemed to only serve about 1 person per minute. I can't help but wonder if they intentionally slow things down to keep a long line and get more folks curious.
I can't believe I even found this on here. ?I eat here about once a week. ?Consistently good food and the guy who runs it is a good person who remembers the group I'm with and hurries our orders through with minimal questions (the little things count). ?Food is always as expected and fairly priced. ?Quick Service & No surprises here.
Amazing. ?Make sure you get extra white sauce. ?Extra white (cream) and red (slightly spicy) is available for free, just ask. ?Eat immediately if possible, microwaving doesn't do very much justice. Expect $5-6. ?There are several imposters on neighboring streets with somewhat different prices. ?If you're intent on the original, look for the guys wearing the official "53rd and 6th" t-shirts. ?To be honest though, the imposters are pretty good as well, so don't be too selective. ?If you're there a lot, learn the vendors because they each prepare it slightly differently, some slightly better than others.
Chicken and rice was no where on the schedule I sketched out for a visiting friend, but then I saw a cart on 50th and 6th and remembered the infamous one on 56th. ?So I figured "Hey, why not? ?Might as well see what the hype is all about." Got there at around 7:20. ?Stood in an unmoving line until 7:45 because the first 30 or so plates went to a waiting tour bus parked across the street. ?Yes, that is how famous this cart is. ?I was so close to robbing the "delivery" boy whose duty it was to take the boxes of food back to the lazy tourists who wouldn't even leave the bus. It was too cold to eat outside, so we found refuge in the Starbucks across the street. ?(Apparently, a lot of people eat their chicken and rice here.) Honestly, though, I didn't think the chicken and rice was that amazing. ?I don't even think it was that good. ?It doesn't have anything to do with the short strand of hair I found. ?Really. ?The white sauce was okay, but overall, the food itself was nothing to rave about. ?I certainly don't think it is worth the time that my friends once spent to travel from Union Square to 56th just for this cart at 2am. ?Of course, they were also intoxicated when they made that decision.
Just go. ?Eat and enjoy. ?Do not divert and go to another stand. ?Go to the one with the long line. ?It's as simple as that. ?This meal is one of the most satisfying that you'll find in New York City.
My feelings are ones of indifference and despair. Rice Platter with Pita $6: ?a potential 3-star, so long as you strenuously avoid the chicken. Choices of meat = beef, lamb, chicken, or combo Lamb: ?4. ?Juicy, spicy, no weird crunchy bits that you often get with street-meat. ?I wish for a little more crisp to the pieces, but worry that if they ever accommodated that request, I'd get heaps of something inedible. Chicken: ?2. ?Gristly, dry. ?This meat made me melancholy. ?I can't remember if it had much flavor, as I was distracted by its dessication. ?Dunno if this chicken experience is anomalous, but I'm not inclined to stand in another line to find out. Vegetation: ?Iceberg lettuce. ?Appearance of tomatoes on the platter was arbitrary. ?Some platters had them; some did not. ?Depended entirely on the aim of the short guy whose raison d'etre was to throw tomatoes from over the cart's wall. Yellow rice: ?vaguely flavored but oily and undercooked. Bread: ?Kontos-brand pita. ?Dense, soft bread. ?It's a brand I buy all the time, but the way it's served here, it's borderline gummy. ?Could it be because it got steamed while covered in styrofoam? ?Okay-okay, not terrible. ? Yogurt sauce: ?eh. ?I think it might have been the thing that made the food want to climb out of my esophagus. Hot sauce: ?Dry heat, too pricking to properly savor in the mouth. ?It doesn't unlock or enhance the flavor of anything. ?It just dominates. The line on a Thursday night at 8:30 pm was a reasonable 6-people deep. ?Even at places where lines are long, if you're with good friends, a sizable queue can make for pleasant summertime idling. ?In this instance, though the line was short and moving efficiently, there were too many factors affecting my enjoyment. ?I didn't much care for the scuttling street-rats, the crosstown traffic, or socializing in the long shadows of buildings in which I work. ?Queue-ambiance here was simply wrong. ? Admittedly, there is much appeal to this place for out-of-towners. ?The queue makes for a great sociological case-study, and an amusing "only-in-NY!" anecdote to boot. ?But would you ever find a native New Yorker in a street-meat line 70-people deep while sober? Meat: ?4 stars for lamb; 1 star for chicken. Bread: ?2.5 stars for sogginess. Rice: ?1 star, summarily dumped. Vegetation: ?2 stars for merely being there. Sauces: ?1 star. ?Hot sauce useless. ?White sauce made me sorry I ever came.
Tell you what, its shocking to see bunch of folks lining up and eating shitty crap (shitty crap?, I mean crappy food), while a much shorter line (on the same promenade but more firmly on the 6th Ave side), offers a much better tasting meals. So this review is for the other halal cart thats is about 20-30 steps from it. This all subjective opinion you say? nope not at all. My guys actually put fresh gyro meat mix on those vertical open rotisserie. getting nice and juicy meat with some real flavor and bite to it. I tried both their chicken and gyro stuff excellent (even the rice had good flavor to it). the 56th & 6th Halal cart on the other hand was bland and waste in general. and my 4 other friends attested to it. if you have Midwestern heritage, with not much balls for eating flavorful spices then go for the original, but if your tongues are well traveled and can handle some adventure go to the joint next to it. My only gripe is that sauces could hold more flavors and depth. Other than that, it a sweet deal for $5 after night out in Manhattan.
Okay i want to not say anything at all about , this wonderful halal cart,.. But i know that's not nice sooo... Every night after binge drinking during the school semesters, ?we drive all the way to to the city ( from stony brook), and go to 53rd and 6th , and get like 10 platters, for the whole floor,!. ?Gosh this is good grub , when your hungry as hell ?after drinking ,. goodness!! gracious... get the lamb and chicken mix, get lots of white sauce and lots of hot sauce,.. . no salad, that's a waste.. .. and pour all the sauces on there,. ?and that hot sauce is hot as shit ,.. and it will burn you , but man it is sooo good!, ?just burn your damn mouth , and eat ? yummmmmmuyy!, buy two bc , the next morning you will be wishing you had more , sober! ps.: ?Who the heck named this place ?by a street ,.. its freakin called .. " CHICKEN AND RICE!"
It was SO good I didn't care that I found a screw in my food......lamb and rice & chicken gyro.
I finally gave in and decided to check it out. ?I must admit the line does move very fast and since it was a cold today it wasn't too long. ?I was gonna get the chicken and rice platter but it seemed like everyone was ordering lamb meat and when I got to the front the chicken looked like it's been sitting there for awhile. ?I went ahead with the lamb platter which came with rice, salad, pita bread and I added both the white and red hot sauce. ?I mixed it all together and took a bite and it was very good. ?The lamb meat was very flavorful but really greasy but what would you expect from street food. ?The hot sauce had a good kick to it but it complimented the white rather nicely. ?The only thing I wish was that it had more salad cuz it was refreshing after eating so much grease. ?Why not 5 stars? ?Cuz too much of this food will kill you! ?=P UPDATE: ?After having this for another 2 times I have to say, "I SURRENDER TO YOU HOTSAUCE!!!"
I am all about adventure and taking risks. ?But this idea sounded crazy!!!! ?When my NYC based co-worker suggested that we grab some food after our client meetings at a "CART" at the corner of 53rd and 6th I was honestly rattled because my response was "are you serious". ?Never been diagnosis with IBS I was sure to think that eating a spicy poultry dish out of a cart would at least give me the symptoms. ? After reassuring me that my chances of spending the night on the hopper would be 1 in 9 I felt more comfortable. ?1 in 9 are pretty good odds! ?I had the chicken wrap and put just a tad (how much is a tad, ?well two dime size droplets) of the red spicy hot sauce. ?IT WAS STILL HOT. ?Also the thing cost $3 bucks.... $3 bucks my gosh my latte at Starbucks costs more. ?The food was terrific! ?I loved this place. ? Not for the faint of heart or the hypochondriac but I recommend anyone who is in NYC to try it. ?Life is not all about fancy restaurants ?and top wine list. ?Sometimes it is about good cheep colorful foods.
Just wanted to add my .02 and say that when I attend a conference at the Hilton every year, I always try to grab at least one meal not in the terrible restaurant there or at the 24-hour Korean deli on 53rd. ?This cart was quite a propitious discovery. ?It's excellent food. ?The difference, since some reviewers have wondered what makes this place special, is that to me, the meat tastes particularly well-cooked and savory. ?Maybe they marinate it longer or something, but it doesn't taste like sauce, or grill grease--it tastes like lamb and chicken and spices. ?Then sauce. ?And no grease. ?It's very good, flavorful, cheap, fast food that doesn't taste like cheap fast food.
Anyone who knows me well, knows I am practically in love with sushi, Indian food, and Halal street meat carts! ?The food is delicious, filling, cheap, and supposedly prepared in one of the most healthiest / Middle Eastern kosher methods (though many would beg to differ). ?This famous cart is no different, delivering the same quality yummy food for a cash only price ($2-5). Clearly they have capitalized on the popularity by having 3-4 people work at a time, extra meat (I've never seen them run out), generous portions of rice, chicken, lamb with monster sized gyros that could be mistaken as burritos, ?staying open late, and situated in one of the most expensive areas in Manhattan. ?If I worked in that area, I'd eat here every day too. Many of the finest street meat carts are situated in the Flatiron district and right below the midtown border. ?Folks who fancy those may not be able to tell a discernible difference between this 53rd and 6th cart or the ones they eat for lunch on a frequent basis. ?Truth be told, the food is the same, but its the intangibles mentioned above that make it different. ?Its now so prevalent that the lines even late into the night are ridiculous. ?My first time eating here involved a 40 min wait. ?For some reason I've been able to catch it between 4-6:30PM where the lines are minimal at best.
Whether rain or shine, day or night, there's always a line wrapped around the corner . ?One gentleman I stood next to drove all the way from Long Island just to feed his craving for Halal's. ?They serve up gyros, chicken plates, lamb plates, or you can do a mix combo plate. ?I personally don't like lamb so I stick with the chicken. ?Each plate come with rice, a generous portion of meat, salad, sliced pita, white sauce, and their signature red hot sauce imported from the Middle East. ?Your food will look like chaos, but who cares when it tastes so freakin' good! ? I would recommend first timers to order easy on the hot sauce and add as you go. ?It can really set your mouth on fire. There are so many Halal carts all over the corners of NYC, but this is the only one that is worthy of its name.
If you think this place will make great beer food, good luck on finding a toilet. ?A group of friends and I descended on this place from The Ginger Man, waited in line, and got our chicken and lamb. ?Halfway into digging in, we all needed to pee. ?The nearby Hilton is closed to the public, and there's a local bar, but it's not too clean, so we all took turns dashing around the block for some territory to mark. A word on the hot sauce: this stuff is freakin' HOT! ?I think my spicy tolerance is pretty high, I have Korean food a couple times a week, and this stuff is way spicier going down...
i know ppl that work on 53rd and 6th. so one day i went over there to see what the fuss was about. my boyfriend sings their praises frequently so i waited on a 35 min line in the rain and ordered one chicken on rice plate and one lamb on rice. not bad, enough food for four people, only $10. so we sat down in the car and chowed down. was it that great? sadly, no. would i do it again? without the line, yes i guess ill just stick to rafiqi's. its cheaper anyway. been there, done that, moved on.
hahaha, I can't believe this place has a Yelp listing. ?Anyways, this place is like a dream come true. ?I could eat here everyday...too bad I don't live closer. When you get the 53rd and 6th, don't be fooled by the other chicken and rice carts. ?The rule of thumb is look for the longest line! Despite the line, it's definitely worth the wait and it's only $5. ?I highly recommend it.
This cart is as good as they say. ?For 5 dollars, you can't go wrong here. ?Always get a mixed platter (lamb and chicken) and ask for extra hot and extra white sauce. ?Then get some bbq sauce and add it in. ?The blend of sauces creates deliciousness. The line is often massive so bring a book or a friend. ?Also, don't cut in line or beware of possible stabbing.
These guys rock! ? We tried them since we were walking by late one night and wanted something quick. ?Needless to say, we ended up coming here for our late night, post-Broadway show eats. ?I'm still amazed at how they get you your food since you tell guy #1 what you want and he takes your money. ?You wait a minute while they get it ready and guy #4 gives you what you ordered despite not communicating with the first guy. ?Its magic I tell ya! ? $6 chicken plate...unbeatable. ?Extra sauce please...whoa, a little easy on the red death sauce. ?More white sauce....more....more...yeah, thats good! Most of the time they are on the west side of 53rd but we noticed on our last night, they were on the east corner of 53rd (first come, first serve on corner rights?). ?Either way...look for the yellow shirts that say "We are different" which should say "We are the best". These guys FTW!
Went to NYC this past summer for a couple days with my boyfriend, who had never been. ? In search of a good falafel cart, I searched Yelp and found this one, which was close to where we would be. ?As usual, Yelp did not let me down. ?I had the falafel sandwich with white sauce, and it was easily the best I've ever tasted. ?I contemplated having a second, but knew I'd regret it halfway through Central Park, so I passed. ?I still regret that decision. ? As a girl with Philly and Boston in my blood, I have never cared for NYC much. ?But sweet jesus, this 5x5 cart is reason enough to go back.
4.5 stars, really. it's very yummy, even though the line tends to be long (which is why it's only 4.5). you have to get the hot sauce and the yogurt sauce and the chicken.
"White sauce, hot sauce brother?" "Does a bear sh..." "Excuse me, which way is the 7th Avenue?" "That way" Is this place so good that it'll make you purposely arrive late to a 4-star reservation or even subject you to lying to your date about not finding the sought out spot only to 'accidentally' wander into this corner? Possibly. I've heard myths about 53rd and 6th. Like forcing a local date rapist into weighing his menu for the night or the one about the Prince of Denmark who had a long battle with constipation until he was advised to check this place out. I'm not much on myths as you can see, so I took the matter into my own hands. I used to have similar spots spread out in the city and something was always missing from each place to make it an ultimate experience. The portion here is awesome. The hot sauce is death defying along with its sidekick. The rice, which usually every place gets right is a bit thin. Chicken while tastes good looks frightened and colorless sometimes. And no, that's not why they're open only at night. Still this is thee spot to hold the "taste so good make you wanna slap yo mamma" moniker ?for quite some time. And the word on the street is that there is a new T-shirts in works reading "Your mouth might win the battle, but your ass will lose the war". So true. So Come, be courteous to fellow Halalists and don't look at me like I'm having the last platter of the night.
I can't believe this is listed. Hilarious. I love it.
The best food in Manhattan for its price. No one will give you this much meat of great quality in NY. Long line but worth the wait. Been here few times, every time the line is long and every time the Egyptian brothers deliver, am a big fan of this place.
I love street food. Sure, it might be "dirty," but tasty food at dirt-cheap prices is fine by me! Bring it on. Lucky me, I tagged along to NYC for a conference at the Hilton and this Halal Cart is parked across the street. Reputedly the best in Manhattan, with lines snaking away in the wee hours, we got lucky in the late afternoon with no line! As a tourist from out West, what the hell do I know, right? Well, this place is damned good! $5 for a plate of Chicken and Gyro. Can't beat that. And mmmMMmm, mix up that hot sauce and tzatziki! Delicious. ***** UPDATE: 11/16/07 ***** Re: Midtown Lunch Debunking (midtownlunch.com/blog/20?) It appears I didn't eat at the REAL famous cart, but rather the LIAR cart. =( Still, if the LIAR cart is pretty damn good, how much better must the REAL cart be? The REAL 53rd and 6th Halal Cart doesn't set up until the evening hours, and the daytime cart is an imposter. Apparently though, the daytime cart across the street is the same owner and same food! Next time! PS: Why don't we have a good taco truck in Century City? City planners bring us a subway and taco trucks!
WOW!!!! ive been addicted to this food for 6 years now. i go at least once a week , and ill be there for sure if I'm drunk. theres always a huge line like 50 ppl, but been a regular pays off in this cart cause i get to order from the cabbie side and no i don't pay 10 buck per platter. i used to get the gyro and rice platter but i switched a couple of years ago to the "Mix" which is ?half chicken half gyro with rice platter. the white sauce is addictive SERIOUSLY and the hot is really HOT so watch out. TIP, if theres a lot of ppl online go to the second cart they have across the street on the south east corner of 53 and 6th. yes they are the same guys. enjoy
This was so good! ?I was really hungry after a day at MOMA and when I went it was closed because of rain. So as soon as the rain cleared up I ran to the cart and was first in line. ?Awesome!!! ? Thanks Natalia, I asked for the combo AND the pita! ?:-)
Weirdly enough, despite 2 carts on "53rd and 6th" I managed to find myself at the right cart -- at least what I think is the right cart. -- since I went by during the day and I saw that they were wearing the distinct "We are Different" shirt. Yes, I did go after 7:30 pm, but the cart is there during the day right? That is the one part I'm not sure about. Anyway, I waited patiently in line and drooled over the amazing smells coming out of this cart. Beautiful beautiful meat being cooked on this lovely cart. For $5 I had a combination plate of lamb and chicken with rice. DELISH!!! I would definitely go back for more! I love food like this and I LOVE LOVE LOVE street food!!! Seriously -- one of the best deals in NYC!
This food MAKES you want to travel great distances. ?People from all walks of life, however you feel about street food, this is a great place to eat quick, inexpensive, FILLING food. ?And you have the munchies, and you're in the city or you're sitting on campus wanting to eat something quick and (not very hearty), come here and eat the infamous Chicken over Rice with the coveted white sauce. ? MMMMMMMMM
Brilliant. (Psst: ?There are two carts now. ?You know the other one across the street, the one with no line? ?The food is the same there!)
First off- I am shocked that I searched on Yelp and found this! ?Yelp rocks! Back to the review: My friends have been talking about this place for MONTHS- this "halal cart" that they hit on Fri/Sat nights. "Better than Mamoun's?" I'd always ask. I finally tried it last weekend with extremely high expectations. ? It met my expectations and exceeded them. The line is long but moves quickly. The platter- with yellow rice, chicken, lamb (I got the combo) and the salad is all yummy- espcially with the white sauce and a sprinkle of the hot sauce. Very tasty after drinking. ? Why not 5 stars? ?well- I thought about whether I would go out of my way to visit and...well- Is it worth the trip uptown if you're drinking downtown? ?Probably not. But- definitely go if you are in the area or passing through.
I've been in Manhattan for 10 months now and this cart is by far the best deal I've come across. Not only do you get a bountiful amount of food, but it tastes damn good(Drunk or sober) and it's cheap! Granted they recently raised their price to $6, it's still the best deal in town. I typically buy at least two platters and freeze/refridgerate the second one for later in the week. I've tried at least six other carts and this one definitely tastes better. Get the rice and lamb. The chicken isn't significantly better than other places, but the lamb is. White sauce is a must, but avoid the hot sauce. It's ridiculously spicy and will induce flaming diarrhea.(Or so I've been told...)
The best place to grab some late night grub when you're partying hard in the city. ?Even better when you're just a short car ride (or a short walk) away. The line for this place is ridiculous, but definitely worth it (even at 3 in the morning!). Got the lamb w/ rice for only $6! ?Don't forget the white sauce, and stay clear of the hot sauce. If you do choose to test out the hot sauce, don't use too much or else you'll sweat and cry. Mm, I can't wait for another chance to go there. I bet the lines will be even worse come summertime!
yet again, i can shoot myself for not thoroghly reading each yelp review before checking a place out, but i thought we already knew the down low since we always saw lines wrapped around the block for this cart, and i wanted to try it without being swayed by others' reviews.. so we checked it out for lunch & not dinner!! no wonder the line was only about 10 people deep instead of wrapped down the block!! none-the-less it was our first taste of the hallal cart. ?over coming our fears of contracting samonella or e.coli from street food, we enjoyed every bite, and our stomachs survived to tell about it. ?we had both the chicken sandwich and the chicken plate. everything was yummy!! and the three of us ate for $12!! ?TWELVE BUCKS - yesterday I spent that on my lunch alone. so now i'm wondering how much better it can be after 7:30pm...hopefully we'll get aother chance to find out.
You MUST come and try this place out if you're visiting NYC. It hits the spot after the very first bite. I'm salivating just thinking about it. I ordered the combination plate and it was just delicious with the ranch sauce. Beware of imposters that stand on other corners. They are directly across from the Marriot (if I remember correctly.) The smell is so fragrant you would want to eat it right then and there!
I can't believe they have their own website! Ask for "lots of sauce".
I'll just say this . . . 2:30 am, Sunday morning, in January, POURING rain, no car, no shelter, in NYC, and there's still a 20 min. line!!! ? Even as we were eating people continued to crop up! ?This happened again recently in April, again at 2:30 am, again in the rain, again 20 mins (usually the lines are longer, as you'll read in the other reviews). ?All for good reason though! ? This is coming from a guy that ?was actually INCENSED that my friend would take us out for a 3 hour "adventure," lost in NYC, in the rain to find some stupid food cart! ?Then when we got there I almost got into an argument/fight with some baboon idiots who thought I was taking a video of them eating the platter. ?So I was already not going to enjoy this! . . . BUT . . . . when the $5 chicken platter over saffron rice (ask for extra chicken and extra white sauce, and hot sauce . . . don't forget the pita, they do that sometimes) went into my mouth it was as if the sun had just came out to warm whatever coldness NYC had to offer!! As I was eating it, I had to admit my only reaction was, "Yeah this is pretty good," and I enjoyed it, but I didn't think it was AMAZING!! ?However, the impact of the "amazingness" of the $5 platter was not felt until I left NY and I craved the platter for weeks! ?In fact, I hate to admit this, but I still crave it. ?I think they put some drugs in there a la the Krusty Rib-wich. In all honesty, the reputation may, in fact, proceed the food, but the $5 Platter is still frickin' good!!! ?It's definitely worth the lines, and it's definitely worth a try, and the price is great for food this good! ?Every time I'm in or anywhere near Manhattan, it's the first and the last stop!! ?Remember . . . extra chicken . . . extra white sauce . . . go sparingly on the hot sauce at first . . . and don't forget the pita!
Mirror, mirror, on the wall, who is the fairest halal cart of them all? 53rd and 6th, with the guy with the chubby hands, the cook with the bluetooth, the shelter from the storm, and the line down the block.
I worked on 53rd and 6th at the Credit Lyonnais (now Calyon) building for two years and this cart is what made lunch bearable. This is the best chicken rice in the area, I promise. Forget all the other guys!
I go here for lunch some times. It's a great bargain and very good halal food. Just be careful of the hot sauce!
How can one little cart serve up so much glory? Contemplate that while you stand in the line that runs down the block. But its worth the wait, esp if youre a street food junky. Cheap, filling eats and a colorful cast of characters to entertain you while you wait. And it tastes delicious whether you hti it up at 8 before you head out, or at 4 am before you head to bed a few food notes: the plate is a better deal than the sandwich, i think the bread gets to be too much after a while. and im sorry for all the white sauce fanatics, but it just tastes like ranch to me. id rather have had some raita.
I have to agree with Kat W., I couldn't believe I saw yelp as one of the top listings when I googled it. ? Anyways...I didn't believe my friends when they told me about this place and I thought they were just over exaggerating about how good it was. ?That is, until I actually saw the humongous line already forming even before they started serving. ?So after a 40 min wait on line, I finally got my chicken platter with extra white sauce after heeding advice from my friend. ?We began to dig in and couldn't believe how good it was. ?The white sauce was full of deliciousness :) and glad I took my friend's advice. ?Overall it was filling and very tasty and just left me wanting to tell everyone I know about this great cart at the corner of 53rd and 6th.
HOLLAAA!!! good god i love vendor food. one of these meals could last you two meals, though i can't say that would be too healthy.
After 7pm, this cart is the BOMB! Don't pour all the hot sauce over your meal, it will burn a hole in your face (and light up another part of your body). Combo plate / sandwich is definitely the best, the saltier lamb/beef pairs well with the lighter chicken. One or the other alone, in my opinion would be too much or too light. What is in the white sauce? It is sooo good. +1 for giving us extra containers. My friends and I came here at the recommendation of one of our friends we were visiting (1st time in NYC), and I will definitely come back the next time I am in town. Only downside to this place is being unable to control the amount you eat, it is that good. My stomach was stretched to the limit. This place is one of the few places I've eaten where the belt had to move a notch post-meal. Cost - $6 plate, $4 sandwich, $1.75 for a 20oz sprite at the neighboring cart.
I testify like Common. I ordered a combination platter: lamb and chicken, rice, lettuce, pita, white and hot sauce. I a little more hot sauce, bub. I ain't no puss... Five dollars? On the side of the cart said $6. Maybe it was lunch. I'm not going to argue. The hot sauce is the most fiery of street vendor carts. I ate maybe half of it, since my stomach was filled with 64 oz of water. Hours later, I dropped a deuce. Nothing loose. I'm eating leftovers for dinner. IFHTP 3+
although i've only eaten at one other gyro cart... this by far is the best gyro halal cart in nyc! walked by the cart a couple nights before, and the line was at least 30-40 people deep (at 3am in the morning). so we decided to hit this place up some other day. we went back on a monday night at 12am, and there was no wait! the gyro platter over rice and salad is delicious to say the least! can't beat it for 5 bucks. it was so good, my friend ended up going back for seconds here (along w/ everywhere else) haha. all this talkin' about food is making me hungry. ugh the problem with yelpin...
I stayed at the Hilton a couple of months ago and noticed the MAJOR line for this cart. So I decided to try it when I went back to NYC this past weekend and it was everything I thought it would be! Tasty! And a super deal for $5! This was after a day of spending my moolah on $2 cupcakes and $3 ice creams.
To say that this place has "long lines" is an understatement. If I were serious and actually time it, I'd probably clock it at around a 30-45-60 minute wait, depending on the time of the [night]. But in reality, if I'm here, it's probably 3/4/5am on a Friday or Saturday, with a bunch of half-drunk friends, and am not sober enough to notice that we've been standing in the same line for the past hour, shivering in 20 degree weather. I don't understand this cart. There are carts at every street intersection selling the exact same thing, but whatever is in the white sauce (which hopefully is legal) has the whole city flocking over at ungodly times of the night. And what's more, I don't even eat meat. I just have them fill it up with rice, veggies, and whatever else they want - just give me some of that sauce!!
I'm one of those annoying people who jeer at all those weaklings who can't handle anything spicy -- SPICY = GOOD, weak sauces! ?Except this halal cart's hot sauce has totally humbled my tongue and pride. ?Like the idiot that I was, I DUMPED hot sauce on my lamb & chicken platter (fantastic, by the way, without loads of hot sauce)... and probably did not digest this baby for a good 12 hours and did not regain feeling in my mouth or lips for another 8. ?Seriously, I can usually handle spicy pretty well, but this had me sniffling and sweating like a maniac... on top of already being gross from drinking. So lesson learned: cut back on the hot sauce (NOT cut out -- it just doesn't give you the proper kick without it!) and enjoy the lamb and chicken. ?These guys are GOOD. ?I can't eat at other halal carts now without being a bit disappointed and thinking about this one now.
Absolutely the best value. When you think of food carts, you think of convenience and quick delivery. When we first arrived, there was already a significant line--at 8PM (and they weren't even opened yet). The wait was more than worth it as our group perched ourselves onto a railing to ravage our combo plates. The "tasty white sauce" was just that. It was a subtle creamy sauce that left you yearning for more. The red sauce was hot-like-whoa, but a fantastic addition nonetheless. My friends and I got another order of food to go for breakfast the next day (which was still great, btw). So, if you're looking to experience nyc cart food, this is THE place to go. You know your food cart is gangsta when you have your own website.
For $6, you can't beat it. YUM.
It's "street meat," plain and simple. But it's good "street meat." Can you find better middle eastern fare in this city? At 8pm, absolutely. But I dare you to find better food at 2 or 3am when you've got a hankering for grilled chicken and lamb over rice smothered in yogurt and hot sauce. Don't be dissuaded by the line, it goes pretty quickly and for $6, it's one of the best deals in town.
Where do you get a good lamb gyro for about $3? ?Periodically, someone from my office will haul ass over there and pick up a massive amount of gyros, etc. ?We love the place! ?Since my hairdresser is near there, I sometimes get a late lunch from these guys. ?Really good, and on my way home at 2 am, there is still a long line waiting!!! ?All these people can't be wrong!
"You HAVE to get the white sauce, but beware the hot sauce" they told me. ?During the winter of 2004 on a particularly cold night, my college floormates insisted that we go to midtown to check out this "amazing" foodstand. ?And so we stood in a huge line, the existence of which initially seemed strange given the frigid temperatures, the fact that it was midnight, and oh yeah, we were waiting for food from a street cart! ?We then ducked into the hotel down the block to stuff our faces and warm up a bit. ?That was an amazing night. I've been back many times since and it never fails to disappoint. ?I've had some very interesting and memorable conversations with fellow line-mates to pass the time and even learned to see the naked hot woman emerging from the sculpture in front of the halal cart (take a bunch of steps back -- if you're too close you won't see it).
I searched this for fun, but there actually are reviews for 53rd & 6th. HA! who would've thought. I agree with everything Natalia had to say. Especially about the pita bread. You don't ask for it, they won't give it. Simply... the best afterparty/afterhours-midnight-starvation snack you can find in the city. Forever has a long line but sacrifices must be made for love of halal. Get the combo platter. I prefer with extra white sauce, but some like bbq and/or hot sauce. On nice nights my friends and I double park our cars and eat on top of the hood. On bad nights we double park our cars and eat inside them. OH.. and don't try going before 7pm. The stand there before that time are NOT the same people. Doesn't taste half as good and way smaller portions.
My boyfriend and I heard about all the hype of the Halal cart on 53rd and 6th, so we decided to check it out one evening since our hotel was so closeby. Well, we got there and saw the ridiculously long line, and decided to go to the other cart just down the street on 52nd because we were starving. Thank God we tried it--SO DELICIOUS. I'm drooling just thinking about it now. By far, the best thing I ate in NY the whole week I was there, not to mention the best deal--$5 for whatever you want and a can of soda. I tried the chicken sandwich and the chicken over rice--both were so good and super filling. The white sauce and hot sauce were both so delicious--I need to figure out what they are. I'm so curious as to how the other cart tastes because I can't imagine it tasting much better than this one.
i have tried 2 other halal carts and they do not compare to this one. ?i don't know what makes the difference, but it is significant. ?it's so fun to come here late at night and devour it while crouching on some uncomfortable spot outside. ?the mixed plate (lamb & chicken) with "salad" (lettuce), pieces of soft pita and yellow rice taste MMM MMM good all combined with the awesome white sauce and a little hot sauce! ?i was a little embarrassed but i went back up about 5 times to get more creamy white sauce. ?go easy on the red hot sauce though! ?my husband and i are korean so we thought we could handle the hot sauce. ?we squirted it everywhere and then it felt like it burned a hole in my stomach.
This really should be called Chicken and Rice. My friends come all the way from the east village just for this little stand. ?There is no business name, but somehow everyone i know has eaten at and is a devout follower of the guys in the yellow shirts who run this place. Yum. so cheap. so good. It opens up around 7 or so and i went around 1 am and i hear its open till 4 or 5. amazing. this is why i love new york. definitely hit these guys up. they dont mess around.
There's no doubt that the food is very good, but it tastes just like the cart across the street from my apartment. I honestly can't tell what it is that makes this particular one so very famous.
After reading the rave reviews about this cart I decided to check it out on a saturday afternoon. When I got there I wasn't sure which cart to go to. There was one both sides of 6th ave. ?One seemed to have a line and the other did not. ?The one that had a line, the guy wasn't wearing the signature yellow t-shirt so I walked across the street to the other cart and saw the guy with the yellow t-shirt. ?Strangely there was no line at all. Was I at the right cart? ? Since I wanted to see what all the hoopla was about I got a chicken platter. ?For 5 bucks, the chicken platter comes with halal chicken, yellow rice, and salad drizzled on top with optional white sauce and hot sauce. The hot sauce is pretty damn hot so don't get too much. The chicken didn't look very fresh since it was probably sitting there all day. ?The food overall was just ok. It was somewhat flavorful but the explosion of flavor I was expecting didn't happen. ?Would I go back? Probably not. ?It's worth checking out once though just to see what all the hype is about.
I would hate to see a videotape of me eating my combo platter.
LOL. There's actually a yelp review for a food stand! Seriously though, this food stand is awesome. My family and I were in NY and just happened to stay in the hotel at 53rd and 6th and decided to give this place a try - we couldn't believe that the line was 20 some people long at 10pm when it was RAINING! The food very yummy and doesn't take a bite out of your wallet at the same time. I think the secret ingredient of this place is the white sauce that makes the meat/rice/veggies taste sooo good. Give it a try.
Praise be Allah, this well-staffed halal cart is as good as street food gets! ? Yes, there's a line, but it moves super fast and it's well worth leaving the office for a few minutes to grab an outstanding dinner. ?These guys aren't exactly a secret, as they have their own Web site (53rdand6th.com). ?Keep in mind that they only first get out there at 7:30 PM. ?Don't go for lunch and get duped by the guy who yoinks their spot. Order a combo (chicken and lamb gyro) platter with a little BBQ sauce and a little white sauce. ?Don't get the hot sauce unless you really know what you're doing. ?And that advice goes for any gyro guy in midtown.
God I wish we had a halal cart in Boston. ?I wish there were street vendors better than the ubiquitous Sausage Guy and those damn roated nuts that inevitably smell better than they ever taste... Back in college, I was in NY for the weekend, and after a night of doing who-knows-what, my friends started talking about chicken and rice. ?Chicken and rice? ?At 2am? ?Little did I know... Anyhow, that was then, this is now. ?After multiple nights ending with the halal cart, now I know. ?Get the combo, with lamb and chicken, and ask for extra white sauce AND hot sauce. ?Make sure they give you the pita. ?And never ever call anyone and tell them you're getting chicken and rice, or else you'll end up carting 9 rice plates all over midtown and downtown at 3am when all you really want to do is eat the best after-drinks food in NY and pass out.
I visited for business last week. The cart is still there. My girlfriend raved about it after we had it one afternoon, so I had to go back by and try it out. The chicken sandwich (which is actually a pita) was tremendous and it's only $4. Take your own drink and expect a long line at the cart.
After reading the reviews of the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart, and realizing it is located next to the Hilton where I'm staying, I decided to brave the winter chill and wait in line to see what the fuss was about. And boy am I glad I did. While I have no other halal cart experiences to compare it to, I thought the chicken & rice meal was great - especially the red hot sauce! ?Great late night food!
I do like the food - a generous heap of chicken and rice, nicely seasoned, really cheap - my kind of meal. ?What's not to like? But I really mostly go there for the experience. ?Standing in a LONG line at 230 am post-drinking or whatever - only in NYC.
few days ago, my boss took us this famous cart for cheering up dinner.. ?he told us, it's the best middle eastern food in NYC.. ?before got there, we thought he's so cheap.. ?but when we saw the looooooong line, and put the combination (chicken + lamb) w/ Rice & Pita in our mouth.. ?we had to agree with him, we met the heavenly highest god of the halal! thank GOD!! this is IT!!! WARNING: let me tell u.. ?I am a Korean! ?need to put hot hot hot sauce a lot on my plate, but theirs? ? it's WOW~ ? it once hit my both ears hardly!
I have always been fascinated by memory. Selective retention and recall never cease to amaze me. I continue to marvel at the fact that even after spending 4+ years studying science, my sister may not be able to recall much more than the chemical formula for water, but will be able to identify with utmost clarity and precision the color, design, cut, fabric and texture of a dress worn in July 1987 by a neighbor's niece visiting from out of town and attending a birthday party for another neighbor! Same goes for Ahmed, the friendly co-proprietor of the Halal Food Cart (HFC). I have gone to his cart for months, fortunate that MOMA and HFC are both only a few hundred yards from work. There was even a stretch of 4 weeks, where I was there EVERY single day for lunch (I know, I am like that!). The only change in my order was to substitute 'Chicken over Pita' with 'Combo over Rice'. The routine was sooo predictable: Ahmed: Yes boss, what will you have? Me: Chicken over Pita (or Combo over Rice) Ahmed: Hot sauce? White sauce? (they also have BBQ sauce) Me: Only hot sauce Ahmed (joking): Hot guy, huh? Me: Hah! Ahmed: Any drinks with that? Me: No, thanks. Ahmed (after a couple of minutes): Here you go, boss? Me: (I simply hand him the money, knowing the cost by now) Enjoy your day! Every single working day for a whole month! (Even the joke!) Obviously, after a while I decide to explore other options (I know, I give a lot of thought to lunch!) - and switch over to House of Pita for a falafel sandwich... So, when I visit HFC after a month or so (talk about behavioral patterns), Ahmed doesn't recollect who I am. As I am about to pay, I see a bulb flash in his eyes. While counting the money, he turns around and says: Long time, boss? Me: Yes. You remembered! Even though you have thousands of customers! Ahmed: How could I forget you? Remember the girl with the glasses? Me: Yes (on one of those 20 occasions, he had tried to flirt with a (hot) girl standing ahead of me) Ahmed: See, I remember everything. Me: I can see that! I came here every single day for a whole month. With the same order. You didn't remember "only hot sauce", but you remembered the hot girl standing in front of me! Once! We both laugh. So, yes. Memory is a funny thing. HFC (see I am subtly conditioning you'll to remember this name, over KFC!) is one of the best value for money meals you can find in the city. $5 goes a long way. But, don't go expecting a gourmet meal, it is street food, after all. You will however find: good food (juicy meat), entertainment and the opportunity to make friends while waiting in line (which often runs 20 deep at midnight - for the evening shift!). Such is HFC's reputation by now ("It has its own website!") that all sorts of people walk up to stand in line. On a good day you will hear a "clueless foodie" (obviously a transplant from the land of the golden gate) joke about the name to a friend. "Dude, what does 'Halal' mean?" Friend: "Don't know, must be a take on hola... or something like that?" yeah, yeah....have some ice cream. [Written to re-assure Scott R., knowledgeable foodie and author of ~300 discerning reviews covering extremely diverse cuisines - from hamburgers to international, that I can yelp beyond dessert - well, occasionally :-)) ] Update (06/29): Scott was also quick to remind me (fittingly for a memory themed review) that I had written up the 'B-team'. That is a fact. In a further twist to the already thrilling saga of the food cart at 53rd and 6th, not too many are aware that a separate team ("The Real 53rd and 6th") functions after 7:30 pm. They are now distinctively dressed in yellow T-shirts that say (among other things): We are Different. The evening shift is mechanically more efficient, and perhaps the "real deal" to their legions of intoxicated devotees, but I actually like the afternoon shift for the lamb (more well done) and the character of the personalities. In any case, I think that there is little to separate any of the Halal food carts that abound nearby. However, I do concede that the evening shift is absolutely unmatched in one thing - You guessed it: the white sauce! (Re: their hot sauce, as Julie K notes, it needs an accompanying fire hose. My advice to unsuspecting newbies: skip it)
I've yet to have this food sober so keep that in mind. ?The last time I was there, it was 30 degrees out and drizzling. ?I made my then gf(now wife) wait in line with me. ?What reassured us that it was good food, was that the cabbie got in line with us. ?If you hop in any cab in NYC and say take me to chicken & rice, 98% of the time they'll know. ?Be careful of the white sauce, it's spicy and you might regret it in the morning. ? C&R is hands down the best late night food.
I'm a downtownist. I live downtown, I go out downtown and I begrudgingly go to Times Square every morning so I can make money to do the aforementioned things. I will, however, also make an exception for this magical platter of chicken and rice. Sure it's $6 for the food and $10 for the cab ride home but it's totally worth it. Once I was able to get a driver to take me there and back for the promise of getting him a gyro plate. And that's the power of this food cart.
6th avenue in the high 40's/low 50's is more like Avenue of the Arabias than Americas as there's more halal meat than you can shake a skewer at. The one all the boys and girls seem to halaler for is this one which focuses on the dinner and late night crowd (7PM - LATE). I checked it out and, honestly, I don't get how this is different from any other halal cart. ?Maybe you need to be drunk on the hype or the hooch to love this place? The line wasn't too bad - maybe 10 minutes long. ?The crowd was a motley mix of kids digging in their pockets to scrounge up the $5 to the types of PRO-fessional males that wear ties without a jacket (which I haven't tried to pull off since I temped at Sam Goody one holiday season long ago). They run a smooth operation. ?They cook the chicken and lamb in bulk and then crank through the requests. ?I went with the standard order of ?'combo' (lamb and chicken). ?Came over rice and salad. ?They provide the white sauce and hot sauce on the side - ?a nice change from it being squirted all over. Rather than camp out at the nearby public seating area where about 15 people were chowing down, I walked up to Central Park for a little Hal-al Fresco dining. End verdict: ?it's tasty. ?Both the lamb and chicken were juicier than I thought they'd be. ?And the yogurt sauce was good. But, unless you're drunk, this is just street meat. ?No more. ?No less.
I was so tired at 3am. Jian, one of my new friends who was staying with us at the hotel wanted to stay and dance. I didn't feel like joining the rest of them at Hop Kee, the Chinese Restaurant that all the Filipinos in the Tri-State area go to. I've never been, I'd love to try it someday, but Christine and Bree wanted Chicken and Rice, Chicken and Rice, they were chanting Chicken and Rice what the hell was this obsession with Chicken and Rice? We met a new friend that night, Jesse and his girlfriend and Jesse told us the best Chicken and Rice place was on 53rd and 6th. Ok first of all, I don't like eating meat unless it's organic, especially chicken, second, I don't eat street food, and third, I don't eat street food. I'm sitting there at 3am with my new Filipino peeps and I have to tell you that it was so good with that yogurt sauce and grease, and lettuce, and grease, plus grease, but it was as satisfying as Indian food,with the grease. Truthfully, I would never do Chicken and rice again, unless I was with my peeps, it's more of a fun group activity.
What can I say about this that hasn't already been said? ?Nothing except YUM YUM YUM. It really is THAT good.
It was a cold night (by NorCal standards), we had just finished seeing Avenue Q, we walked over to 53rd and 6th on the recommendation of a few friends who "liked the burger at the Burger Joint, but CRAVED the halal cart", saw the line, and thought "hmmm, this looks intriguing". ?Got the #1 Combination with white AND red sauce, not knowing what to expect. Maybe it was the cold, maybe it was standing under all those tall buildings, maybe it was the trauma from seeing muppet sex, but I have to say that it was one of the most memorable, if not the best meals I can remember. The meat was tender and flavorful, the rice was cooked to perfection, not undercooked, or mushy, the white sauce was smooth and mellowed out the bite from the red sauce (which had some heat to it). ?Apparently I was so mesmerized by the whole experience that all I could say during while eating this was "this is what I'm talking about" and that's all I have to say about it.
Hunger brought on by late night drinking has never been so happily satisfied. ?Until last night, I was a street meat virgin, never having eaten any meat from a cart before so I can't compare this halal cart with any other cart. However, I can say that the food here is delicious! ?And cheap! ?And plentiful! ?Since I don't eat meat, I got the combo with chicken only - and a brick of rice, pita, salad, and tender juicy chicken was handed to me. ?My friend helpfully instructed me on how to assemble the perfect halal meal - first, mix in a lot of white sauce with the rice & meat, then put only a few fork dips worth of hot sauce into the mixture. ?That hot sauce is ridiculously hot and a few drops changes the taste of the meal. ?I happily devoured my whole container. Yeah, there's a wait but on a warm summer night, what's there to complain about? Carbs + protein = What's not to love?
dude in front of me talking to friends: this is going to blow your mind look at the followers in line me: is this cart really *that* good? dude: yeah man, it's amazing, how'd you hear about it me: uhh...i heard about it from...the internets dude: the internets lie but this is an exception can't really say too much more that hasn't already been said. it's the great equalizer...random old people, tourists, hot fashion types, midtown dudes in suits...all waiting in line for the fantastic 6 dollar meal with white and hot sauce. and damn, that shit is hot like fire. not good when you're eating on the fung wah and forget you have nothing to drink but can't run to that chinese hotdog place because your seat might get sold. the only improvement i may humbly suggest is some sauteed onions and peppers. but that's just me.
Lots of people have written about this great wonder so I'll simply add two important tips: 1.) ?The secret codeword is to ask for the item "To Go". ?For example, you can order "Combo over rice To Go, please" and hand the guy $6. ?That signals that you want the meal wrapped up and placed in a bag with your fork, napkins, two cups of the white sauce and one cup of hot sauce. ?Otherwise, they'll just hand you the food uncovered and force you to squirt the sauce yourself from the side of the truck. I honestly don't know HOW they communicate my To GO option, but I tell the money taker guy To GO and the food server magically knows, even if there are 4-5 people in between me (between the money taker and the server). ?The only time they don't honor the TO GO option is when they are very very busy on Fri/Sat night. 2.) ?You can cut your waiting time in half by going across the street, to the East of 6th instead of the West of 6th. ?There is a truck that servers the same food with the same prices and the same company logo... except I'll be honest, I don't think it tastes quite as good as the original truck. ? So really the option is faster service vs. better taste. ?Maybe they'll crack down on the quality and equalize the two soon, but as of Spring'08 I swear I can taste the difference :P
I'm writing this review and eating my lamb over rice platter with both hands shaking vigorously because I'm so hungry. I read reviews of this cart before going there, and you guys are right, this cart definitely does not disappoint. The meat and rice are tasty, the white sauce rocks and I'm so glad I did not ask for more hot sauce (because it *is* really spicy). I really like the white sauce. The only issue I have is with the plastic fork they provide. Food this good ought to be eaten with a shovel.
I spent three days in New York recently and I visited this place three times. Once was at about 1am after we rung in the New Year. We ditched the place that cost us $125 a head to get into and walked several blocks to get a gyro. *sigh* Now, I continue my never ending quest for a good falafel or gyro in Los Angeles knowing that I will never find anything quite as good as Halal.
My flight into the city arrived really late, so I was brought here after my flight to pick up some food to take back home. We got the chicken & rice and the lamb & rice. They smelled so good in the car that I wanted to eat them then and there. Back at home, we devoured the food. The white sauce is sooo good but beware of the hot sauce! It's HOT! Mmm I'm craving some chicken & rice now....