I can't believe 53rd and 6th halal has its own review thingamajig. A part of me doesn't want to rave about how good it is because I don't want the line getting any longer than it already is. But I won't be selfish. Go for the combo and their hot sauce is HOT.
This is a world renowned food cart, serious! ?People from all over the world know that if they visit Manhattan they must stop by the chicken and rice cart at 53rd and 6th. ?I first found out about this place several years ago when I was staying at the Hilton which is right next to the cart. ?I was out drinking and finally decided to go back to the hotel at about 3am. ?As I was walking down 53rd I noticed this massive line and was very curious as to what these people were waiting for. ?Then I see it, a little street corner food cart. ?I thought these people were crazy to be standing in line at such an hour for food from a street vendor. ?So what did I do? ?I got in line and ordered what everyone else was ordering, the chicken and rice with white sauce. ?Now I am one of those crazy people that stops by the chicken and rice cart whenever I am in town.
I was told about the place by Yelper Luis M. Since I was actually staying at the Hilton in front of it I had to try it. 4 times. Yes, it's definitely tasty and cheap. No, I can't give it 5 stars. I got sick of it after the 4th time. Every night I was amazed with how long the line was. 1am, 2am, 3am...always a huge line. ?This place even has a wikipedia entry: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ch? The chicken and rice with white sauce is the thing. The gyro is not bad either.
As far as cart food goes, this place is the cream of the crop! I'm a food fanatic and I will admit that I have what I like to call a 'refined palate' (other people call me a food snob or simply picky *smirk*) - normally, I wouldn't be caught dead eating out of a food cart. BUT, as a regular at the Hilton next door, I've seen hour long lines outside this cart at all hours of the night no matter what season for years now. Last night, I came into town with a couple coworkers and we decided to head out for drinks. After walking around for about a half hour, we ended up at 53rd and 6th and the line was super long! Feeling adventurous, we decided to get in line! Having seen many versions of the 'soup nazi' - one being a sandwich shop where I grew up in Princeton, NJ - I was not happy not knowing what to order or how. SO, while my coworkers stood in line, I snuck to the front and listened in on the orders. Very quickly I realized that the Halal cart staff was FAR from rude and terse. People took their time ordering and even chit chatting to the owner while waiting for their food. It was a very friendly atmosphere. Here's what I learned if you want to be prepared. They serve lamb and chicken. They serve it two ways: in a gyro, which is a big pita filled with lettuce, some other stuff and your meat of choice with white sauce and hot sauce on top; as a combo, which is a togo aluminum plate filled with lettuce and yellow rice (fried I guess) with your choice of meat on top and white sauce and hot sauce and cut up pita bread. You can order either without any sauce and put however much you'd like yourself as they have a condiments wall on the side of the cart. This is what we did as we had no idea what the sauces are and we were warned by a lady in the line that the red sauce is SUPER HOT. OH and was it HOT! My one coworker who got the lamb combo put a bunch of it all over his plate assuming it was something similar to sriracha. Boy was he wrong! He likes hot food and he was sweating buckets and sucking down water as he ate his dish. So be careful!! The white sauce is some kind of yogurt sauce that is much more watery than mayo. It really brings out the taste in the meat. I enjoyed dabbing my chicken pieces in the hot sauce but I treated it like wasabi - in fact, less than that, I literally would put a tiny spot of it on a bite and it was more than enough to put a fire in my mouth. I think it's habanero based or something. Overall, it was a fantastic experience...I can only imagine how great it would be after a night out drinking. I always get the munchies and this would totally hit the spot! Would I go back? Probably not - but only because I'm extremely health conscious and can only imagine the high calories in one of those!
dude. So good. ?This was probably the best meal I've had that was made in less than 5 minutes. ?Except maybe some of the stands in the night markets in Taiwan I've had. ? Their chicken plate with rice and salad was to DIE for. ?Came here the next day for dinner again and their chicken gyro was awesomely GOOD. ?and for $5?? HELL YEAH. Definitely my meal of choice in NYC. ?Grab $5, get a plate/sandwich to go, sit, and enjoy..........mmmmmmm............. droooool. ?ask for the hot sauce. and white sauce. mix it together. drizzel over plate. experience orgasm that comes in your mouth afterwards. ?lots of carts out there claiming to be the original gyro truck but this is the real deal.
It's pretty standard cart fare. ?Good white sauce. ?But pretty average.
Each time I go to NYC I try my very best not to eat at the same places unless there are work-time restrictions. Of course, if we are talking about the 53rd and 6th Ha-lal-lal cart I will revisit as much as possible. I don't mind waiting for 30 mins for a steaming hot foil container filled with goodness. I always get the rice place. I love standing in line and a couple of the regular New Yorkers ask for the "bowl with jai-ro meat, white sauce - one regular, one spicy." I've had the chicken, the jai-ro meat as well as the year-ro meat, no matter how to pronounce it, it all amounts to one mouth-watering dish of fast, fresh, Pakistani, food. Just beware, I love spicy but whatever the red dragon sauce they serve on top of these dishes it's not for the mild-to-medium folk.
AMAZING! this cart...yes a cart...serves up better food than some restaurants i've been to.we went there at about 1am and the line was so long it was almost 2 when we got our food. get the combo that was you can experience chicken and lamb. ohhhhh mannnnnn sooooo goooooood! lol. i wouldnt ever ever leave the city without goin' to this place. it has now become one of the must-do's of NYC! 53rd and 6th cant miss it. Happy Eating!
OK, I'm totally guessing that this is the Halal Cart I ate at today... I had my first falafel. It was great - I got it with the hot sauce, which turned out to be not as hot as I thought it would be, but that was okay. It balanced out the flavor of what I'm gonna guess was hummus inside, and the explosion of textures and tastes in my mouth was pretty amazing. Falafels. I am sold. But I think I liked my friend's lamb gyro just a little better ;) It was a good food experience though, for sure. I'm going to be on the lookout for the perfect falafel once I get back to California.
This is by far, the BEST Halal Cart ever. ?$5 for an entire gyro plate. ?But you must go between 7pm - 4am. ?Any other time of the day, a poser cart may be standing there.... These are POSERS. Think about it, why else would folks stand out in the freezing cold for an hour long line for Halal cart food past midnight? No official website... but a fan site!! ?What kind of NY food cart gets a fan site? ?Experience for youself 53rdand6th.com This is seriously the best bang for the buck Gyro plate and sandwich you'll ever eat.
i went to this cart at like midnight cus i was hungry and i had a bad case of hives. the rice platta with chicken was supposed to make myself feel better since i didn't go out with my friends that night. the guy who prepared my food took FOREVURRRH. okay, yeh, maybe the nights get a tad bit on the slow side and four girls coming up to you for your service gets you all riled up and crap, but how long does it f'in take to make three hotdogs and a rice platter? especially when people were starting to line up! anyway, i got my food and he put in HELLA tahini sauce cus i requested it. food was good, but i prefer the other cart across the street that's opened during the day, cus he knows how i like my tahini sauce. when it comes to tahini sauce - i don't play, sir! oh yeh, another thing. the guy who made my food has no shame at all. when he gave me my food, he also gave me a kiss on the cheek. wtf? no shame....
I always wondered why this street vendor had consistently long lines at all hours of the day. Now I know why. Their plates are delicious, especially the pita bread-- hot, just the right amount of grease, and perfectly toasty. It definitely hit the spot late at night. 53rd & 6th is definitely an OINY thing (Only In New York ;) ?If only SF had something like this.
I'm certainly no expert on the gyro, but this was very good. ?I had the combo sandwich for $4 and it was incredibly filling and delicious. ?Very juicy meat. NOTE: As we were waiting in the 20 minute line, we noticed there was a very similar cart on the SE corner of the intersection with absolutely no line (this cart is on the SW corner). ?My girlfriend wandered over to see what that cart was about. ?They wear the same shirts and have essentially the same menu. ?The proprietor of the SE cart said it was the same as the SW cart. ?When we ordered from the SW cart, the proprietor confirmed that both carts are the same company, but that the SW cart (the original) "is older...everybody knows him." ?I'll have to try the SE cart before making a judgment, but I think it's worth a try. ?It might make sense to buy from the SE cart unless, as my girlfriend hypothesized, people actually enjoy waiting in line for the gyro because they actually like the anticipation.
I was surprised to see a review on a street-meat cart but I am so glad I read ther reviews and then found this cart. Excellent value and very tasty chicken rice plate - the falafel was great too. Go easy on the hot sauce though. We fed a family of six for less than $25.
This shit is the bomb! If you're out clubbing in the Big Apple and craving some bomb ass grub when you're drunk, hike over to this street vendor on 53rd and 6th, next to the Hilton in the financial district. ?The line stretches for blocks late at night, so try and get their early. ?They serve a dish called chicken over rice, which pretty much tastes like a chicken soft taco from Del Taco, but better! ?Only order it spicy if you can take the heat and dont' mind sitting on the toilet the next morning with an a-hole on fire. Even if the vendor probably breaks every health code violation in the book, your drunk ass wouldn't care. I sure didn't! ?Someone needs to franchise this to LA and take out the dirty club dogs they serve in Hollywood.
For $5, the portions and flavors are well worth the wait, no matter what the temperature. ?I always get the lamb and chicken with rice combo. ?Just eat it while it's fresh, since it loses a bit of it's magic when reheated.
Everytime I hear about this cart, or even as I glance over the existing reviews for this place on the side bar as I'm writing this one *ding* a bell goes off in my head and immediately the Pavlovian response of salivating begins. I am literally swallowing a bunch of saliva at the moment trying not to drool over my keyboard. Other than the line up, this place is great. You see I love street meat and this place definitely gets the "street" into the "meat". ?Easily having the best street cred of all the carts around. Chicken & Rice + Hot Sauce - $ = #$@#$@%! Amazing meal that will hit the spot for sure. Especially after a night of drinking or aimless wandering.
This place is good. ?This place is &^%$ing good. ?Damn. ?And it's got tons of strange fobs / desis / etc around it. ?A fantastic experience
one of the few lines in manhattan i'll happily stand in
Average for a Halal Cart. ?These carts are all over the city and I've had better. ?I work near this one and was always curious by the extremely long line (always at least 1/2 a block). ?Finally I lined up, and about 30 minutes later ordered a chicken and lamb combo over rice. ?The portion was very large, but the taste was nothing special. ?You can get the same style of food for the same price at countless carts nearby without a line. ? I was most surprised by how slowly they served; they have 4 people working the cart but seemed to only serve about 1 person per minute. I can't help but wonder if they intentionally slow things down to keep a long line and get more folks curious.
I can't believe I even found this on here. ?I eat here about once a week. ?Consistently good food and the guy who runs it is a good person who remembers the group I'm with and hurries our orders through with minimal questions (the little things count). ?Food is always as expected and fairly priced. ?Quick Service & No surprises here.
Amazing. ?Make sure you get extra white sauce. ?Extra white (cream) and red (slightly spicy) is available for free, just ask. ?Eat immediately if possible, microwaving doesn't do very much justice. Expect $5-6. ?There are several imposters on neighboring streets with somewhat different prices. ?If you're intent on the original, look for the guys wearing the official "53rd and 6th" t-shirts. ?To be honest though, the imposters are pretty good as well, so don't be too selective. ?If you're there a lot, learn the vendors because they each prepare it slightly differently, some slightly better than others.
Chicken and rice was no where on the schedule I sketched out for a visiting friend, but then I saw a cart on 50th and 6th and remembered the infamous one on 56th. ?So I figured "Hey, why not? ?Might as well see what the hype is all about." Got there at around 7:20. ?Stood in an unmoving line until 7:45 because the first 30 or so plates went to a waiting tour bus parked across the street. ?Yes, that is how famous this cart is. ?I was so close to robbing the "delivery" boy whose duty it was to take the boxes of food back to the lazy tourists who wouldn't even leave the bus. It was too cold to eat outside, so we found refuge in the Starbucks across the street. ?(Apparently, a lot of people eat their chicken and rice here.) Honestly, though, I didn't think the chicken and rice was that amazing. ?I don't even think it was that good. ?It doesn't have anything to do with the short strand of hair I found. ?Really. ?The white sauce was okay, but overall, the food itself was nothing to rave about. ?I certainly don't think it is worth the time that my friends once spent to travel from Union Square to 56th just for this cart at 2am. ?Of course, they were also intoxicated when they made that decision.
Just go. ?Eat and enjoy. ?Do not divert and go to another stand. ?Go to the one with the long line. ?It's as simple as that. ?This meal is one of the most satisfying that you'll find in New York City.
My feelings are ones of indifference and despair. Rice Platter with Pita $6: ?a potential 3-star, so long as you strenuously avoid the chicken. Choices of meat = beef, lamb, chicken, or combo Lamb: ?4. ?Juicy, spicy, no weird crunchy bits that you often get with street-meat. ?I wish for a little more crisp to the pieces, but worry that if they ever accommodated that request, I'd get heaps of something inedible. Chicken: ?2. ?Gristly, dry. ?This meat made me melancholy. ?I can't remember if it had much flavor, as I was distracted by its dessication. ?Dunno if this chicken experience is anomalous, but I'm not inclined to stand in another line to find out. Vegetation: ?Iceberg lettuce. ?Appearance of tomatoes on the platter was arbitrary. ?Some platters had them; some did not. ?Depended entirely on the aim of the short guy whose raison d'etre was to throw tomatoes from over the cart's wall. Yellow rice: ?vaguely flavored but oily and undercooked. Bread: ?Kontos-brand pita. ?Dense, soft bread. ?It's a brand I buy all the time, but the way it's served here, it's borderline gummy. ?Could it be because it got steamed while covered in styrofoam? ?Okay-okay, not terrible. ? Yogurt sauce: ?eh. ?I think it might have been the thing that made the food want to climb out of my esophagus. Hot sauce: ?Dry heat, too pricking to properly savor in the mouth. ?It doesn't unlock or enhance the flavor of anything. ?It just dominates. The line on a Thursday night at 8:30 pm was a reasonable 6-people deep. ?Even at places where lines are long, if you're with good friends, a sizable queue can make for pleasant summertime idling. ?In this instance, though the line was short and moving efficiently, there were too many factors affecting my enjoyment. ?I didn't much care for the scuttling street-rats, the crosstown traffic, or socializing in the long shadows of buildings in which I work. ?Queue-ambiance here was simply wrong. ? Admittedly, there is much appeal to this place for out-of-towners. ?The queue makes for a great sociological case-study, and an amusing "only-in-NY!" anecdote to boot. ?But would you ever find a native New Yorker in a street-meat line 70-people deep while sober? Meat: ?4 stars for lamb; 1 star for chicken. Bread: ?2.5 stars for sogginess. Rice: ?1 star, summarily dumped. Vegetation: ?2 stars for merely being there. Sauces: ?1 star. ?Hot sauce useless. ?White sauce made me sorry I ever came.
Tell you what, its shocking to see bunch of folks lining up and eating shitty crap (shitty crap?, I mean crappy food), while a much shorter line (on the same promenade but more firmly on the 6th Ave side), offers a much better tasting meals. So this review is for the other halal cart thats is about 20-30 steps from it. This all subjective opinion you say? nope not at all. My guys actually put fresh gyro meat mix on those vertical open rotisserie. getting nice and juicy meat with some real flavor and bite to it. I tried both their chicken and gyro stuff excellent (even the rice had good flavor to it). the 56th & 6th Halal cart on the other hand was bland and waste in general. and my 4 other friends attested to it. if you have Midwestern heritage, with not much balls for eating flavorful spices then go for the original, but if your tongues are well traveled and can handle some adventure go to the joint next to it. My only gripe is that sauces could hold more flavors and depth. Other than that, it a sweet deal for $5 after night out in Manhattan.
Okay i want to not say anything at all about , this wonderful halal cart,.. But i know that's not nice sooo... Every night after binge drinking during the school semesters, ?we drive all the way to to the city ( from stony brook), and go to 53rd and 6th , and get like 10 platters, for the whole floor,!. ?Gosh this is good grub , when your hungry as hell ?after drinking ,. goodness!! gracious... get the lamb and chicken mix, get lots of white sauce and lots of hot sauce,.. . no salad, that's a waste.. .. and pour all the sauces on there,. ?and that hot sauce is hot as shit ,.. and it will burn you , but man it is sooo good!, ?just burn your damn mouth , and eat ? yummmmmmuyy!, buy two bc , the next morning you will be wishing you had more , sober! ps.: ?Who the heck named this place ?by a street ,.. its freakin called .. " CHICKEN AND RICE!"
It was SO good I didn't care that I found a screw in my food......lamb and rice & chicken gyro.
I finally gave in and decided to check it out. ?I must admit the line does move very fast and since it was a cold today it wasn't too long. ?I was gonna get the chicken and rice platter but it seemed like everyone was ordering lamb meat and when I got to the front the chicken looked like it's been sitting there for awhile. ?I went ahead with the lamb platter which came with rice, salad, pita bread and I added both the white and red hot sauce. ?I mixed it all together and took a bite and it was very good. ?The lamb meat was very flavorful but really greasy but what would you expect from street food. ?The hot sauce had a good kick to it but it complimented the white rather nicely. ?The only thing I wish was that it had more salad cuz it was refreshing after eating so much grease. ?Why not 5 stars? ?Cuz too much of this food will kill you! ?=P UPDATE: ?After having this for another 2 times I have to say, "I SURRENDER TO YOU HOTSAUCE!!!"
I am all about adventure and taking risks. ?But this idea sounded crazy!!!! ?When my NYC based co-worker suggested that we grab some food after our client meetings at a "CART" at the corner of 53rd and 6th I was honestly rattled because my response was "are you serious". ?Never been diagnosis with IBS I was sure to think that eating a spicy poultry dish out of a cart would at least give me the symptoms. ? After reassuring me that my chances of spending the night on the hopper would be 1 in 9 I felt more comfortable. ?1 in 9 are pretty good odds! ?I had the chicken wrap and put just a tad (how much is a tad, ?well two dime size droplets) of the red spicy hot sauce. ?IT WAS STILL HOT. ?Also the thing cost $3 bucks.... $3 bucks my gosh my latte at Starbucks costs more. ?The food was terrific! ?I loved this place. ? Not for the faint of heart or the hypochondriac but I recommend anyone who is in NYC to try it. ?Life is not all about fancy restaurants ?and top wine list. ?Sometimes it is about good cheep colorful foods.
Just wanted to add my .02 and say that when I attend a conference at the Hilton every year, I always try to grab at least one meal not in the terrible restaurant there or at the 24-hour Korean deli on 53rd. ?This cart was quite a propitious discovery. ?It's excellent food. ?The difference, since some reviewers have wondered what makes this place special, is that to me, the meat tastes particularly well-cooked and savory. ?Maybe they marinate it longer or something, but it doesn't taste like sauce, or grill grease--it tastes like lamb and chicken and spices. ?Then sauce. ?And no grease. ?It's very good, flavorful, cheap, fast food that doesn't taste like cheap fast food.
Anyone who knows me well, knows I am practically in love with sushi, Indian food, and Halal street meat carts! ?The food is delicious, filling, cheap, and supposedly prepared in one of the most healthiest / Middle Eastern kosher methods (though many would beg to differ). ?This famous cart is no different, delivering the same quality yummy food for a cash only price ($2-5). Clearly they have capitalized on the popularity by having 3-4 people work at a time, extra meat (I've never seen them run out), generous portions of rice, chicken, lamb with monster sized gyros that could be mistaken as burritos, ?staying open late, and situated in one of the most expensive areas in Manhattan. ?If I worked in that area, I'd eat here every day too. Many of the finest street meat carts are situated in the Flatiron district and right below the midtown border. ?Folks who fancy those may not be able to tell a discernible difference between this 53rd and 6th cart or the ones they eat for lunch on a frequent basis. ?Truth be told, the food is the same, but its the intangibles mentioned above that make it different. ?Its now so prevalent that the lines even late into the night are ridiculous. ?My first time eating here involved a 40 min wait. ?For some reason I've been able to catch it between 4-6:30PM where the lines are minimal at best.
Whether rain or shine, day or night, there's always a line wrapped around the corner . ?One gentleman I stood next to drove all the way from Long Island just to feed his craving for Halal's. ?They serve up gyros, chicken plates, lamb plates, or you can do a mix combo plate. ?I personally don't like lamb so I stick with the chicken. ?Each plate come with rice, a generous portion of meat, salad, sliced pita, white sauce, and their signature red hot sauce imported from the Middle East. ?Your food will look like chaos, but who cares when it tastes so freakin' good! ? I would recommend first timers to order easy on the hot sauce and add as you go. ?It can really set your mouth on fire. There are so many Halal carts all over the corners of NYC, but this is the only one that is worthy of its name.
If you think this place will make great beer food, good luck on finding a toilet. ?A group of friends and I descended on this place from The Ginger Man, waited in line, and got our chicken and lamb. ?Halfway into digging in, we all needed to pee. ?The nearby Hilton is closed to the public, and there's a local bar, but it's not too clean, so we all took turns dashing around the block for some territory to mark. A word on the hot sauce: this stuff is freakin' HOT! ?I think my spicy tolerance is pretty high, I have Korean food a couple times a week, and this stuff is way spicier going down...
i know ppl that work on 53rd and 6th. so one day i went over there to see what the fuss was about. my boyfriend sings their praises frequently so i waited on a 35 min line in the rain and ordered one chicken on rice plate and one lamb on rice. not bad, enough food for four people, only $10. so we sat down in the car and chowed down. was it that great? sadly, no. would i do it again? without the line, yes i guess ill just stick to rafiqi's. its cheaper anyway. been there, done that, moved on.
hahaha, I can't believe this place has a Yelp listing. ?Anyways, this place is like a dream come true. ?I could eat here everyday...too bad I don't live closer. When you get the 53rd and 6th, don't be fooled by the other chicken and rice carts. ?The rule of thumb is look for the longest line! Despite the line, it's definitely worth the wait and it's only $5. ?I highly recommend it.
This cart is as good as they say. ?For 5 dollars, you can't go wrong here. ?Always get a mixed platter (lamb and chicken) and ask for extra hot and extra white sauce. ?Then get some bbq sauce and add it in. ?The blend of sauces creates deliciousness. The line is often massive so bring a book or a friend. ?Also, don't cut in line or beware of possible stabbing.
These guys rock! ? We tried them since we were walking by late one night and wanted something quick. ?Needless to say, we ended up coming here for our late night, post-Broadway show eats. ?I'm still amazed at how they get you your food since you tell guy #1 what you want and he takes your money. ?You wait a minute while they get it ready and guy #4 gives you what you ordered despite not communicating with the first guy. ?Its magic I tell ya! ? $6 chicken plate...unbeatable. ?Extra sauce please...whoa, a little easy on the red death sauce. ?More white sauce....more....more...yeah, thats good! Most of the time they are on the west side of 53rd but we noticed on our last night, they were on the east corner of 53rd (first come, first serve on corner rights?). ?Either way...look for the yellow shirts that say "We are different" which should say "We are the best". These guys FTW!
Went to NYC this past summer for a couple days with my boyfriend, who had never been. ? In search of a good falafel cart, I searched Yelp and found this one, which was close to where we would be. ?As usual, Yelp did not let me down. ?I had the falafel sandwich with white sauce, and it was easily the best I've ever tasted. ?I contemplated having a second, but knew I'd regret it halfway through Central Park, so I passed. ?I still regret that decision. ? As a girl with Philly and Boston in my blood, I have never cared for NYC much. ?But sweet jesus, this 5x5 cart is reason enough to go back.
4.5 stars, really. it's very yummy, even though the line tends to be long (which is why it's only 4.5). you have to get the hot sauce and the yogurt sauce and the chicken.
"White sauce, hot sauce brother?" "Does a bear sh..." "Excuse me, which way is the 7th Avenue?" "That way" Is this place so good that it'll make you purposely arrive late to a 4-star reservation or even subject you to lying to your date about not finding the sought out spot only to 'accidentally' wander into this corner? Possibly. I've heard myths about 53rd and 6th. Like forcing a local date rapist into weighing his menu for the night or the one about the Prince of Denmark who had a long battle with constipation until he was advised to check this place out. I'm not much on myths as you can see, so I took the matter into my own hands. I used to have similar spots spread out in the city and something was always missing from each place to make it an ultimate experience. The portion here is awesome. The hot sauce is death defying along with its sidekick. The rice, which usually every place gets right is a bit thin. Chicken while tastes good looks frightened and colorless sometimes. And no, that's not why they're open only at night. Still this is thee spot to hold the "taste so good make you wanna slap yo mamma" moniker ?for quite some time. And the word on the street is that there is a new T-shirts in works reading "Your mouth might win the battle, but your ass will lose the war". So true. So Come, be courteous to fellow Halalists and don't look at me like I'm having the last platter of the night.
I can't believe this is listed. Hilarious. I love it.
The best food in Manhattan for its price. No one will give you this much meat of great quality in NY. Long line but worth the wait. Been here few times, every time the line is long and every time the Egyptian brothers deliver, am a big fan of this place.
I love street food. Sure, it might be "dirty," but tasty food at dirt-cheap prices is fine by me! Bring it on. Lucky me, I tagged along to NYC for a conference at the Hilton and this Halal Cart is parked across the street. Reputedly the best in Manhattan, with lines snaking away in the wee hours, we got lucky in the late afternoon with no line! As a tourist from out West, what the hell do I know, right? Well, this place is damned good! $5 for a plate of Chicken and Gyro. Can't beat that. And mmmMMmm, mix up that hot sauce and tzatziki! Delicious. ***** UPDATE: 11/16/07 ***** Re: Midtown Lunch Debunking (midtownlunch.com/blog/20?) It appears I didn't eat at the REAL famous cart, but rather the LIAR cart. =( Still, if the LIAR cart is pretty damn good, how much better must the REAL cart be? The REAL 53rd and 6th Halal Cart doesn't set up until the evening hours, and the daytime cart is an imposter. Apparently though, the daytime cart across the street is the same owner and same food! Next time! PS: Why don't we have a good taco truck in Century City? City planners bring us a subway and taco trucks!
WOW!!!! ive been addicted to this food for 6 years now. i go at least once a week , and ill be there for sure if I'm drunk. theres always a huge line like 50 ppl, but been a regular pays off in this cart cause i get to order from the cabbie side and no i don't pay 10 buck per platter. i used to get the gyro and rice platter but i switched a couple of years ago to the "Mix" which is ?half chicken half gyro with rice platter. the white sauce is addictive SERIOUSLY and the hot is really HOT so watch out. TIP, if theres a lot of ppl online go to the second cart they have across the street on the south east corner of 53 and 6th. yes they are the same guys. enjoy
This was so good! ?I was really hungry after a day at MOMA and when I went it was closed because of rain. So as soon as the rain cleared up I ran to the cart and was first in line. ?Awesome!!! ? Thanks Natalia, I asked for the combo AND the pita! ?:-)
Weirdly enough, despite 2 carts on "53rd and 6th" I managed to find myself at the right cart -- at least what I think is the right cart. -- since I went by during the day and I saw that they were wearing the distinct "We are Different" shirt. Yes, I did go after 7:30 pm, but the cart is there during the day right? That is the one part I'm not sure about. Anyway, I waited patiently in line and drooled over the amazing smells coming out of this cart. Beautiful beautiful meat being cooked on this lovely cart. For $5 I had a combination plate of lamb and chicken with rice. DELISH!!! I would definitely go back for more! I love food like this and I LOVE LOVE LOVE street food!!! Seriously -- one of the best deals in NYC!
This food MAKES you want to travel great distances. ?People from all walks of life, however you feel about street food, this is a great place to eat quick, inexpensive, FILLING food. ?And you have the munchies, and you're in the city or you're sitting on campus wanting to eat something quick and (not very hearty), come here and eat the infamous Chicken over Rice with the coveted white sauce. ? MMMMMMMMM
Brilliant. (Psst: ?There are two carts now. ?You know the other one across the street, the one with no line? ?The food is the same there!)
First off- I am shocked that I searched on Yelp and found this! ?Yelp rocks! Back to the review: My friends have been talking about this place for MONTHS- this "halal cart" that they hit on Fri/Sat nights. "Better than Mamoun's?" I'd always ask. I finally tried it last weekend with extremely high expectations. ? It met my expectations and exceeded them. The line is long but moves quickly. The platter- with yellow rice, chicken, lamb (I got the combo) and the salad is all yummy- espcially with the white sauce and a sprinkle of the hot sauce. Very tasty after drinking. ? Why not 5 stars? ?well- I thought about whether I would go out of my way to visit and...well- Is it worth the trip uptown if you're drinking downtown? ?Probably not. But- definitely go if you are in the area or passing through.
I've been in Manhattan for 10 months now and this cart is by far the best deal I've come across. Not only do you get a bountiful amount of food, but it tastes damn good(Drunk or sober) and it's cheap! Granted they recently raised their price to $6, it's still the best deal in town. I typically buy at least two platters and freeze/refridgerate the second one for later in the week. I've tried at least six other carts and this one definitely tastes better. Get the rice and lamb. The chicken isn't significantly better than other places, but the lamb is. White sauce is a must, but avoid the hot sauce. It's ridiculously spicy and will induce flaming diarrhea.(Or so I've been told...)
The best place to grab some late night grub when you're partying hard in the city. ?Even better when you're just a short car ride (or a short walk) away. The line for this place is ridiculous, but definitely worth it (even at 3 in the morning!). Got the lamb w/ rice for only $6! ?Don't forget the white sauce, and stay clear of the hot sauce. If you do choose to test out the hot sauce, don't use too much or else you'll sweat and cry. Mm, I can't wait for another chance to go there. I bet the lines will be even worse come summertime!
yet again, i can shoot myself for not thoroghly reading each yelp review before checking a place out, but i thought we already knew the down low since we always saw lines wrapped around the block for this cart, and i wanted to try it without being swayed by others' reviews.. so we checked it out for lunch & not dinner!! no wonder the line was only about 10 people deep instead of wrapped down the block!! none-the-less it was our first taste of the hallal cart. ?over coming our fears of contracting samonella or e.coli from street food, we enjoyed every bite, and our stomachs survived to tell about it. ?we had both the chicken sandwich and the chicken plate. everything was yummy!! and the three of us ate for $12!! ?TWELVE BUCKS - yesterday I spent that on my lunch alone. so now i'm wondering how much better it can be after 7:30pm...hopefully we'll get aother chance to find out.
You MUST come and try this place out if you're visiting NYC. It hits the spot after the very first bite. I'm salivating just thinking about it. I ordered the combination plate and it was just delicious with the ranch sauce. Beware of imposters that stand on other corners. They are directly across from the Marriot (if I remember correctly.) The smell is so fragrant you would want to eat it right then and there!
I can't believe they have their own website! Ask for "lots of sauce".
I'll just say this . . . 2:30 am, Sunday morning, in January, POURING rain, no car, no shelter, in NYC, and there's still a 20 min. line!!! ? Even as we were eating people continued to crop up! ?This happened again recently in April, again at 2:30 am, again in the rain, again 20 mins (usually the lines are longer, as you'll read in the other reviews). ?All for good reason though! ? This is coming from a guy that ?was actually INCENSED that my friend would take us out for a 3 hour "adventure," lost in NYC, in the rain to find some stupid food cart! ?Then when we got there I almost got into an argument/fight with some baboon idiots who thought I was taking a video of them eating the platter. ?So I was already not going to enjoy this! . . . BUT . . . . when the $5 chicken platter over saffron rice (ask for extra chicken and extra white sauce, and hot sauce . . . don't forget the pita, they do that sometimes) went into my mouth it was as if the sun had just came out to warm whatever coldness NYC had to offer!! As I was eating it, I had to admit my only reaction was, "Yeah this is pretty good," and I enjoyed it, but I didn't think it was AMAZING!! ?However, the impact of the "amazingness" of the $5 platter was not felt until I left NY and I craved the platter for weeks! ?In fact, I hate to admit this, but I still crave it. ?I think they put some drugs in there a la the Krusty Rib-wich. In all honesty, the reputation may, in fact, proceed the food, but the $5 Platter is still frickin' good!!! ?It's definitely worth the lines, and it's definitely worth a try, and the price is great for food this good! ?Every time I'm in or anywhere near Manhattan, it's the first and the last stop!! ?Remember . . . extra chicken . . . extra white sauce . . . go sparingly on the hot sauce at first . . . and don't forget the pita!
Mirror, mirror, on the wall, who is the fairest halal cart of them all? 53rd and 6th, with the guy with the chubby hands, the cook with the bluetooth, the shelter from the storm, and the line down the block.
I worked on 53rd and 6th at the Credit Lyonnais (now Calyon) building for two years and this cart is what made lunch bearable. This is the best chicken rice in the area, I promise. Forget all the other guys!
I go here for lunch some times. It's a great bargain and very good halal food. Just be careful of the hot sauce!
How can one little cart serve up so much glory? Contemplate that while you stand in the line that runs down the block. But its worth the wait, esp if youre a street food junky. Cheap, filling eats and a colorful cast of characters to entertain you while you wait. And it tastes delicious whether you hti it up at 8 before you head out, or at 4 am before you head to bed a few food notes: the plate is a better deal than the sandwich, i think the bread gets to be too much after a while. and im sorry for all the white sauce fanatics, but it just tastes like ranch to me. id rather have had some raita.
I have to agree with Kat W., I couldn't believe I saw yelp as one of the top listings when I googled it. ? Anyways...I didn't believe my friends when they told me about this place and I thought they were just over exaggerating about how good it was. ?That is, until I actually saw the humongous line already forming even before they started serving. ?So after a 40 min wait on line, I finally got my chicken platter with extra white sauce after heeding advice from my friend. ?We began to dig in and couldn't believe how good it was. ?The white sauce was full of deliciousness :) and glad I took my friend's advice. ?Overall it was filling and very tasty and just left me wanting to tell everyone I know about this great cart at the corner of 53rd and 6th.
HOLLAAA!!! good god i love vendor food. one of these meals could last you two meals, though i can't say that would be too healthy.
After 7pm, this cart is the BOMB! Don't pour all the hot sauce over your meal, it will burn a hole in your face (and light up another part of your body). Combo plate / sandwich is definitely the best, the saltier lamb/beef pairs well with the lighter chicken. One or the other alone, in my opinion would be too much or too light. What is in the white sauce? It is sooo good. +1 for giving us extra containers. My friends and I came here at the recommendation of one of our friends we were visiting (1st time in NYC), and I will definitely come back the next time I am in town. Only downside to this place is being unable to control the amount you eat, it is that good. My stomach was stretched to the limit. This place is one of the few places I've eaten where the belt had to move a notch post-meal. Cost - $6 plate, $4 sandwich, $1.75 for a 20oz sprite at the neighboring cart.
I testify like Common. I ordered a combination platter: lamb and chicken, rice, lettuce, pita, white and hot sauce. I a little more hot sauce, bub. I ain't no puss... Five dollars? On the side of the cart said $6. Maybe it was lunch. I'm not going to argue. The hot sauce is the most fiery of street vendor carts. I ate maybe half of it, since my stomach was filled with 64 oz of water. Hours later, I dropped a deuce. Nothing loose. I'm eating leftovers for dinner. IFHTP 3+
although i've only eaten at one other gyro cart... this by far is the best gyro halal cart in nyc! walked by the cart a couple nights before, and the line was at least 30-40 people deep (at 3am in the morning). so we decided to hit this place up some other day. we went back on a monday night at 12am, and there was no wait! the gyro platter over rice and salad is delicious to say the least! can't beat it for 5 bucks. it was so good, my friend ended up going back for seconds here (along w/ everywhere else) haha. all this talkin' about food is making me hungry. ugh the problem with yelpin...
I stayed at the Hilton a couple of months ago and noticed the MAJOR line for this cart. So I decided to try it when I went back to NYC this past weekend and it was everything I thought it would be! Tasty! And a super deal for $5! This was after a day of spending my moolah on $2 cupcakes and $3 ice creams.
To say that this place has "long lines" is an understatement. If I were serious and actually time it, I'd probably clock it at around a 30-45-60 minute wait, depending on the time of the [night]. But in reality, if I'm here, it's probably 3/4/5am on a Friday or Saturday, with a bunch of half-drunk friends, and am not sober enough to notice that we've been standing in the same line for the past hour, shivering in 20 degree weather. I don't understand this cart. There are carts at every street intersection selling the exact same thing, but whatever is in the white sauce (which hopefully is legal) has the whole city flocking over at ungodly times of the night. And what's more, I don't even eat meat. I just have them fill it up with rice, veggies, and whatever else they want - just give me some of that sauce!!
I'm one of those annoying people who jeer at all those weaklings who can't handle anything spicy -- SPICY = GOOD, weak sauces! ?Except this halal cart's hot sauce has totally humbled my tongue and pride. ?Like the idiot that I was, I DUMPED hot sauce on my lamb & chicken platter (fantastic, by the way, without loads of hot sauce)... and probably did not digest this baby for a good 12 hours and did not regain feeling in my mouth or lips for another 8. ?Seriously, I can usually handle spicy pretty well, but this had me sniffling and sweating like a maniac... on top of already being gross from drinking. So lesson learned: cut back on the hot sauce (NOT cut out -- it just doesn't give you the proper kick without it!) and enjoy the lamb and chicken. ?These guys are GOOD. ?I can't eat at other halal carts now without being a bit disappointed and thinking about this one now.
Absolutely the best value. When you think of food carts, you think of convenience and quick delivery. When we first arrived, there was already a significant line--at 8PM (and they weren't even opened yet). The wait was more than worth it as our group perched ourselves onto a railing to ravage our combo plates. The "tasty white sauce" was just that. It was a subtle creamy sauce that left you yearning for more. The red sauce was hot-like-whoa, but a fantastic addition nonetheless. My friends and I got another order of food to go for breakfast the next day (which was still great, btw). So, if you're looking to experience nyc cart food, this is THE place to go. You know your food cart is gangsta when you have your own website.
For $6, you can't beat it. YUM.
It's "street meat," plain and simple. But it's good "street meat." Can you find better middle eastern fare in this city? At 8pm, absolutely. But I dare you to find better food at 2 or 3am when you've got a hankering for grilled chicken and lamb over rice smothered in yogurt and hot sauce. Don't be dissuaded by the line, it goes pretty quickly and for $6, it's one of the best deals in town.
Where do you get a good lamb gyro for about $3? ?Periodically, someone from my office will haul ass over there and pick up a massive amount of gyros, etc. ?We love the place! ?Since my hairdresser is near there, I sometimes get a late lunch from these guys. ?Really good, and on my way home at 2 am, there is still a long line waiting!!! ?All these people can't be wrong!
"You HAVE to get the white sauce, but beware the hot sauce" they told me. ?During the winter of 2004 on a particularly cold night, my college floormates insisted that we go to midtown to check out this "amazing" foodstand. ?And so we stood in a huge line, the existence of which initially seemed strange given the frigid temperatures, the fact that it was midnight, and oh yeah, we were waiting for food from a street cart! ?We then ducked into the hotel down the block to stuff our faces and warm up a bit. ?That was an amazing night. I've been back many times since and it never fails to disappoint. ?I've had some very interesting and memorable conversations with fellow line-mates to pass the time and even learned to see the naked hot woman emerging from the sculpture in front of the halal cart (take a bunch of steps back -- if you're too close you won't see it).
I searched this for fun, but there actually are reviews for 53rd & 6th. HA! who would've thought. I agree with everything Natalia had to say. Especially about the pita bread. You don't ask for it, they won't give it. Simply... the best afterparty/afterhours-midnight-starvation snack you can find in the city. Forever has a long line but sacrifices must be made for love of halal. Get the combo platter. I prefer with extra white sauce, but some like bbq and/or hot sauce. On nice nights my friends and I double park our cars and eat on top of the hood. On bad nights we double park our cars and eat inside them. OH.. and don't try going before 7pm. The stand there before that time are NOT the same people. Doesn't taste half as good and way smaller portions.
My boyfriend and I heard about all the hype of the Halal cart on 53rd and 6th, so we decided to check it out one evening since our hotel was so closeby. Well, we got there and saw the ridiculously long line, and decided to go to the other cart just down the street on 52nd because we were starving. Thank God we tried it--SO DELICIOUS. I'm drooling just thinking about it now. By far, the best thing I ate in NY the whole week I was there, not to mention the best deal--$5 for whatever you want and a can of soda. I tried the chicken sandwich and the chicken over rice--both were so good and super filling. The white sauce and hot sauce were both so delicious--I need to figure out what they are. I'm so curious as to how the other cart tastes because I can't imagine it tasting much better than this one.
i have tried 2 other halal carts and they do not compare to this one. ?i don't know what makes the difference, but it is significant. ?it's so fun to come here late at night and devour it while crouching on some uncomfortable spot outside. ?the mixed plate (lamb & chicken) with "salad" (lettuce), pieces of soft pita and yellow rice taste MMM MMM good all combined with the awesome white sauce and a little hot sauce! ?i was a little embarrassed but i went back up about 5 times to get more creamy white sauce. ?go easy on the red hot sauce though! ?my husband and i are korean so we thought we could handle the hot sauce. ?we squirted it everywhere and then it felt like it burned a hole in my stomach.
This really should be called Chicken and Rice. My friends come all the way from the east village just for this little stand. ?There is no business name, but somehow everyone i know has eaten at and is a devout follower of the guys in the yellow shirts who run this place. Yum. so cheap. so good. It opens up around 7 or so and i went around 1 am and i hear its open till 4 or 5. amazing. this is why i love new york. definitely hit these guys up. they dont mess around.
There's no doubt that the food is very good, but it tastes just like the cart across the street from my apartment. I honestly can't tell what it is that makes this particular one so very famous.
After reading the rave reviews about this cart I decided to check it out on a saturday afternoon. When I got there I wasn't sure which cart to go to. There was one both sides of 6th ave. ?One seemed to have a line and the other did not. ?The one that had a line, the guy wasn't wearing the signature yellow t-shirt so I walked across the street to the other cart and saw the guy with the yellow t-shirt. ?Strangely there was no line at all. Was I at the right cart? ? Since I wanted to see what all the hoopla was about I got a chicken platter. ?For 5 bucks, the chicken platter comes with halal chicken, yellow rice, and salad drizzled on top with optional white sauce and hot sauce. The hot sauce is pretty damn hot so don't get too much. The chicken didn't look very fresh since it was probably sitting there all day. ?The food overall was just ok. It was somewhat flavorful but the explosion of flavor I was expecting didn't happen. ?Would I go back? Probably not. ?It's worth checking out once though just to see what all the hype is about.
I would hate to see a videotape of me eating my combo platter.
LOL. There's actually a yelp review for a food stand! Seriously though, this food stand is awesome. My family and I were in NY and just happened to stay in the hotel at 53rd and 6th and decided to give this place a try - we couldn't believe that the line was 20 some people long at 10pm when it was RAINING! The food very yummy and doesn't take a bite out of your wallet at the same time. I think the secret ingredient of this place is the white sauce that makes the meat/rice/veggies taste sooo good. Give it a try.
Praise be Allah, this well-staffed halal cart is as good as street food gets! ? Yes, there's a line, but it moves super fast and it's well worth leaving the office for a few minutes to grab an outstanding dinner. ?These guys aren't exactly a secret, as they have their own Web site (53rdand6th.com). ?Keep in mind that they only first get out there at 7:30 PM. ?Don't go for lunch and get duped by the guy who yoinks their spot. Order a combo (chicken and lamb gyro) platter with a little BBQ sauce and a little white sauce. ?Don't get the hot sauce unless you really know what you're doing. ?And that advice goes for any gyro guy in midtown.
God I wish we had a halal cart in Boston. ?I wish there were street vendors better than the ubiquitous Sausage Guy and those damn roated nuts that inevitably smell better than they ever taste... Back in college, I was in NY for the weekend, and after a night of doing who-knows-what, my friends started talking about chicken and rice. ?Chicken and rice? ?At 2am? ?Little did I know... Anyhow, that was then, this is now. ?After multiple nights ending with the halal cart, now I know. ?Get the combo, with lamb and chicken, and ask for extra white sauce AND hot sauce. ?Make sure they give you the pita. ?And never ever call anyone and tell them you're getting chicken and rice, or else you'll end up carting 9 rice plates all over midtown and downtown at 3am when all you really want to do is eat the best after-drinks food in NY and pass out.
I visited for business last week. The cart is still there. My girlfriend raved about it after we had it one afternoon, so I had to go back by and try it out. The chicken sandwich (which is actually a pita) was tremendous and it's only $4. Take your own drink and expect a long line at the cart.
After reading the reviews of the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart, and realizing it is located next to the Hilton where I'm staying, I decided to brave the winter chill and wait in line to see what the fuss was about. And boy am I glad I did. While I have no other halal cart experiences to compare it to, I thought the chicken & rice meal was great - especially the red hot sauce! ?Great late night food!
I do like the food - a generous heap of chicken and rice, nicely seasoned, really cheap - my kind of meal. ?What's not to like? But I really mostly go there for the experience. ?Standing in a LONG line at 230 am post-drinking or whatever - only in NYC.
few days ago, my boss took us this famous cart for cheering up dinner.. ?he told us, it's the best middle eastern food in NYC.. ?before got there, we thought he's so cheap.. ?but when we saw the looooooong line, and put the combination (chicken + lamb) w/ Rice & Pita in our mouth.. ?we had to agree with him, we met the heavenly highest god of the halal! thank GOD!! this is IT!!! WARNING: let me tell u.. ?I am a Korean! ?need to put hot hot hot sauce a lot on my plate, but theirs? ? it's WOW~ ? it once hit my both ears hardly!
I have always been fascinated by memory. Selective retention and recall never cease to amaze me. I continue to marvel at the fact that even after spending 4+ years studying science, my sister may not be able to recall much more than the chemical formula for water, but will be able to identify with utmost clarity and precision the color, design, cut, fabric and texture of a dress worn in July 1987 by a neighbor's niece visiting from out of town and attending a birthday party for another neighbor! Same goes for Ahmed, the friendly co-proprietor of the Halal Food Cart (HFC). I have gone to his cart for months, fortunate that MOMA and HFC are both only a few hundred yards from work. There was even a stretch of 4 weeks, where I was there EVERY single day for lunch (I know, I am like that!). The only change in my order was to substitute 'Chicken over Pita' with 'Combo over Rice'. The routine was sooo predictable: Ahmed: Yes boss, what will you have? Me: Chicken over Pita (or Combo over Rice) Ahmed: Hot sauce? White sauce? (they also have BBQ sauce) Me: Only hot sauce Ahmed (joking): Hot guy, huh? Me: Hah! Ahmed: Any drinks with that? Me: No, thanks. Ahmed (after a couple of minutes): Here you go, boss? Me: (I simply hand him the money, knowing the cost by now) Enjoy your day! Every single working day for a whole month! (Even the joke!) Obviously, after a while I decide to explore other options (I know, I give a lot of thought to lunch!) - and switch over to House of Pita for a falafel sandwich... So, when I visit HFC after a month or so (talk about behavioral patterns), Ahmed doesn't recollect who I am. As I am about to pay, I see a bulb flash in his eyes. While counting the money, he turns around and says: Long time, boss? Me: Yes. You remembered! Even though you have thousands of customers! Ahmed: How could I forget you? Remember the girl with the glasses? Me: Yes (on one of those 20 occasions, he had tried to flirt with a (hot) girl standing ahead of me) Ahmed: See, I remember everything. Me: I can see that! I came here every single day for a whole month. With the same order. You didn't remember "only hot sauce", but you remembered the hot girl standing in front of me! Once! We both laugh. So, yes. Memory is a funny thing. HFC (see I am subtly conditioning you'll to remember this name, over KFC!) is one of the best value for money meals you can find in the city. $5 goes a long way. But, don't go expecting a gourmet meal, it is street food, after all. You will however find: good food (juicy meat), entertainment and the opportunity to make friends while waiting in line (which often runs 20 deep at midnight - for the evening shift!). Such is HFC's reputation by now ("It has its own website!") that all sorts of people walk up to stand in line. On a good day you will hear a "clueless foodie" (obviously a transplant from the land of the golden gate) joke about the name to a friend. "Dude, what does 'Halal' mean?" Friend: "Don't know, must be a take on hola... or something like that?" yeah, yeah....have some ice cream. [Written to re-assure Scott R., knowledgeable foodie and author of ~300 discerning reviews covering extremely diverse cuisines - from hamburgers to international, that I can yelp beyond dessert - well, occasionally :-)) ] Update (06/29): Scott was also quick to remind me (fittingly for a memory themed review) that I had written up the 'B-team'. That is a fact. In a further twist to the already thrilling saga of the food cart at 53rd and 6th, not too many are aware that a separate team ("The Real 53rd and 6th") functions after 7:30 pm. They are now distinctively dressed in yellow T-shirts that say (among other things): We are Different. The evening shift is mechanically more efficient, and perhaps the "real deal" to their legions of intoxicated devotees, but I actually like the afternoon shift for the lamb (more well done) and the character of the personalities. In any case, I think that there is little to separate any of the Halal food carts that abound nearby. However, I do concede that the evening shift is absolutely unmatched in one thing - You guessed it: the white sauce! (Re: their hot sauce, as Julie K notes, it needs an accompanying fire hose. My advice to unsuspecting newbies: skip it)
I've yet to have this food sober so keep that in mind. ?The last time I was there, it was 30 degrees out and drizzling. ?I made my then gf(now wife) wait in line with me. ?What reassured us that it was good food, was that the cabbie got in line with us. ?If you hop in any cab in NYC and say take me to chicken & rice, 98% of the time they'll know. ?Be careful of the white sauce, it's spicy and you might regret it in the morning. ? C&R is hands down the best late night food.
I'm a downtownist. I live downtown, I go out downtown and I begrudgingly go to Times Square every morning so I can make money to do the aforementioned things. I will, however, also make an exception for this magical platter of chicken and rice. Sure it's $6 for the food and $10 for the cab ride home but it's totally worth it. Once I was able to get a driver to take me there and back for the promise of getting him a gyro plate. And that's the power of this food cart.
6th avenue in the high 40's/low 50's is more like Avenue of the Arabias than Americas as there's more halal meat than you can shake a skewer at. The one all the boys and girls seem to halaler for is this one which focuses on the dinner and late night crowd (7PM - LATE). I checked it out and, honestly, I don't get how this is different from any other halal cart. ?Maybe you need to be drunk on the hype or the hooch to love this place? The line wasn't too bad - maybe 10 minutes long. ?The crowd was a motley mix of kids digging in their pockets to scrounge up the $5 to the types of PRO-fessional males that wear ties without a jacket (which I haven't tried to pull off since I temped at Sam Goody one holiday season long ago). They run a smooth operation. ?They cook the chicken and lamb in bulk and then crank through the requests. ?I went with the standard order of ?'combo' (lamb and chicken). ?Came over rice and salad. ?They provide the white sauce and hot sauce on the side - ?a nice change from it being squirted all over. Rather than camp out at the nearby public seating area where about 15 people were chowing down, I walked up to Central Park for a little Hal-al Fresco dining. End verdict: ?it's tasty. ?Both the lamb and chicken were juicier than I thought they'd be. ?And the yogurt sauce was good. But, unless you're drunk, this is just street meat. ?No more. ?No less.
I was so tired at 3am. Jian, one of my new friends who was staying with us at the hotel wanted to stay and dance. I didn't feel like joining the rest of them at Hop Kee, the Chinese Restaurant that all the Filipinos in the Tri-State area go to. I've never been, I'd love to try it someday, but Christine and Bree wanted Chicken and Rice, Chicken and Rice, they were chanting Chicken and Rice what the hell was this obsession with Chicken and Rice? We met a new friend that night, Jesse and his girlfriend and Jesse told us the best Chicken and Rice place was on 53rd and 6th. Ok first of all, I don't like eating meat unless it's organic, especially chicken, second, I don't eat street food, and third, I don't eat street food. I'm sitting there at 3am with my new Filipino peeps and I have to tell you that it was so good with that yogurt sauce and grease, and lettuce, and grease, plus grease, but it was as satisfying as Indian food,with the grease. Truthfully, I would never do Chicken and rice again, unless I was with my peeps, it's more of a fun group activity.
What can I say about this that hasn't already been said? ?Nothing except YUM YUM YUM. It really is THAT good.
It was a cold night (by NorCal standards), we had just finished seeing Avenue Q, we walked over to 53rd and 6th on the recommendation of a few friends who "liked the burger at the Burger Joint, but CRAVED the halal cart", saw the line, and thought "hmmm, this looks intriguing". ?Got the #1 Combination with white AND red sauce, not knowing what to expect. Maybe it was the cold, maybe it was standing under all those tall buildings, maybe it was the trauma from seeing muppet sex, but I have to say that it was one of the most memorable, if not the best meals I can remember. The meat was tender and flavorful, the rice was cooked to perfection, not undercooked, or mushy, the white sauce was smooth and mellowed out the bite from the red sauce (which had some heat to it). ?Apparently I was so mesmerized by the whole experience that all I could say during while eating this was "this is what I'm talking about" and that's all I have to say about it.
Hunger brought on by late night drinking has never been so happily satisfied. ?Until last night, I was a street meat virgin, never having eaten any meat from a cart before so I can't compare this halal cart with any other cart. However, I can say that the food here is delicious! ?And cheap! ?And plentiful! ?Since I don't eat meat, I got the combo with chicken only - and a brick of rice, pita, salad, and tender juicy chicken was handed to me. ?My friend helpfully instructed me on how to assemble the perfect halal meal - first, mix in a lot of white sauce with the rice & meat, then put only a few fork dips worth of hot sauce into the mixture. ?That hot sauce is ridiculously hot and a few drops changes the taste of the meal. ?I happily devoured my whole container. Yeah, there's a wait but on a warm summer night, what's there to complain about? Carbs + protein = What's not to love?
dude in front of me talking to friends: this is going to blow your mind look at the followers in line me: is this cart really *that* good? dude: yeah man, it's amazing, how'd you hear about it me: uhh...i heard about it from...the internets dude: the internets lie but this is an exception can't really say too much more that hasn't already been said. it's the great equalizer...random old people, tourists, hot fashion types, midtown dudes in suits...all waiting in line for the fantastic 6 dollar meal with white and hot sauce. and damn, that shit is hot like fire. not good when you're eating on the fung wah and forget you have nothing to drink but can't run to that chinese hotdog place because your seat might get sold. the only improvement i may humbly suggest is some sauteed onions and peppers. but that's just me.
Lots of people have written about this great wonder so I'll simply add two important tips: 1.) ?The secret codeword is to ask for the item "To Go". ?For example, you can order "Combo over rice To Go, please" and hand the guy $6. ?That signals that you want the meal wrapped up and placed in a bag with your fork, napkins, two cups of the white sauce and one cup of hot sauce. ?Otherwise, they'll just hand you the food uncovered and force you to squirt the sauce yourself from the side of the truck. I honestly don't know HOW they communicate my To GO option, but I tell the money taker guy To GO and the food server magically knows, even if there are 4-5 people in between me (between the money taker and the server). ?The only time they don't honor the TO GO option is when they are very very busy on Fri/Sat night. 2.) ?You can cut your waiting time in half by going across the street, to the East of 6th instead of the West of 6th. ?There is a truck that servers the same food with the same prices and the same company logo... except I'll be honest, I don't think it tastes quite as good as the original truck. ? So really the option is faster service vs. better taste. ?Maybe they'll crack down on the quality and equalize the two soon, but as of Spring'08 I swear I can taste the difference :P
I'm writing this review and eating my lamb over rice platter with both hands shaking vigorously because I'm so hungry. I read reviews of this cart before going there, and you guys are right, this cart definitely does not disappoint. The meat and rice are tasty, the white sauce rocks and I'm so glad I did not ask for more hot sauce (because it *is* really spicy). I really like the white sauce. The only issue I have is with the plastic fork they provide. Food this good ought to be eaten with a shovel.
I spent three days in New York recently and I visited this place three times. Once was at about 1am after we rung in the New Year. We ditched the place that cost us $125 a head to get into and walked several blocks to get a gyro. *sigh* Now, I continue my never ending quest for a good falafel or gyro in Los Angeles knowing that I will never find anything quite as good as Halal.
My flight into the city arrived really late, so I was brought here after my flight to pick up some food to take back home. We got the chicken & rice and the lamb & rice. They smelled so good in the car that I wanted to eat them then and there. Back at home, we devoured the food. The white sauce is sooo good but beware of the hot sauce! It's HOT! Mmm I'm craving some chicken & rice now....
A MUST!!!! ?after two hours of trying to find this place, my ?friend and I almost gave up, but finally from afar we saw a crowd...low and behold there it was! All that walking and all the subway confusion was well worth it. ?Got the 3 meat combo with pita bread and salad for $5!!!
I can't believe I've never written this up. You can smell it four blocks away. It's open early in the morning to late at night. They serve what has to be the best Gyro in NYC. I used to stay at the Hilton right across the street and now, even though I've moved upscale on my hotel (Le Meridian) I still make the walk back to this modest cart that serves some of the best lamb and chicken plates I've ever had. It always hits the spot. So, follow your nose and then look for the line and you'll be there. Skip
To prep for my recent trip to NY I did lots of yelp research. After reading the numerous reviews I knew I had to try this place and as luck would have it, we stayed at The Blakely just around the corner. I convinced the BF that we just had to try it, even though the line spanned half a city block. I decided on the lamb sandwich and he got the chicken sandwich. We hurried back to the hotel so we could dive in to the meaty goodness. It was everything I hoped for. A soft fluffy pita stuffed to the brim with gyro-like lamb, topped with a bit of lettuce for crunch and doused with white sauce. Beware the hot sauce, it's crazy hot! A delicious meal for $4! Amazing! Now if I can only convince them to open up in SF...
This is probably the best street food I had for awhile, I was NY for 4 days and since we live around 6ave and 55th st, I had the chance to walk by it several times a day, but cannot help to noticed the line is just long each time when I walk by, no matter if it's 2pm in the afternoon or 3 am in the morning.. so I decide to give it a try. ?I got the mix (chicken and lamb) in rice for $6, portion is perfect for a mid night snack to share for two or even three. ?The chicken and lamb is so good that I start to envy the people who work close by (Hilton for example). ?NY is really a street food heaven... but I heard the street food in LA ain't bad too, just never had the chance to try it out. The white sauce that come w/ the meal is so good, and now it comes on the side and also the spicy sauce.. omg.. it's so spicy, I almost cried when I put that in my mouth, I'm so glad I didn't just pour the whole thing in my rice else I probably have to go back in line and get another one instead.
"OhmyGawdBeckyImSoDrunkAndThisHalalCartIsSOOgoodIl?oveYouYou'reMahBFFfoEvah!" "OhmyGodTotallyWe'reLikeSOOsistahs.Like,CanIhaveSo?meofYourChickenandRice,it'sSOOgood" "BITCH, back the f*ck off."
Visited NY with one of my best friend last week and had no idea what Halal food is. Our first attempt of Chicken and Rice was at the cart across the street from our hotel. 53rd and 6th Halal is 2 thumbs up!!! Our first attempt of Chicken and Rice was smashed to the ground by our 2nd attempt. Rainy Monday night/ Tuesday morning and what better food to get than a combo of lamb and chicken plate with a white sauce and some hot sauce. Luckily for us, there was not one single customer, we had 3 of the 6 guys serving us. I guess we got lucky since it was late Monday night and raining pretty hard. I normally don't like lamb but this, I was able to eat and it was delish!!!!! I can't wait to go back to NYC and when I do, I will definately come back for a combo plate. I have to thank my friend for introducing me to this gem.
It was a windy 30 degrees chilly winter and it was my last night in NY before returning to LA. ?My best friend and I returned to our hotel at around 2am from partying and what else do you do after a late night of drinking? ?Get Halal food of course. ?We walked 9 blks in the cold in our jammies, with coats of course. Someone mistook us for bums because he crossed the road right as he was approaching us... but that's a whole other story. I know that this story does not make the food taste any better but my point is, through sleet and snow, nothing will keep me away from this Halal cart. ?Don't be fooled, their is no other! ?It is now a tradition for me and my friends to hit the Halal cart on our last night. ?I don't make them walk anymore, we just take a cab. My favorite: the combo with salad, rice, white and hot sauce!
Wow, finally Ive found something that makes me question whether California is the best place in the world to live and eat.... ?Sad that I cant work downtown and eat at this cart on a daily basis. ?The price is extremely reasonable too! ?$6 for a full plate of food and even $4 for a sandwhich is a great deal considering the ammount of meat you get. ? Out of towners and tourists: I recommend going here over Mamouns Falafel given the choice (and given you eat meat). ?Even though they are both good, I don't know anywhere in the U.S. to get s halal meal on the street that is this tasty.
day 53 halal... so i been hearing over and over i need to try this. i don't even know if this is the one i tried. wait im positive this one isn't it. i don't know where i saw it but once i saw it, i am like. let me try this mofo bro cuz im sick of eating ko fro yo. i called zun y to ask him what combo he was telling me to get. he was insistent i go to a certain halal spot. he was like they have the best combo. im like i dunno where that is. i'm somewhere near empire state building. he told me i had to go. i just asked him to name the combo, it was chicken and beef combo. fine. i ain't gonna spend my time to go to "the" halal cart. its a street cart for one. as touristy as i am, i can't do that just for food. i lost whatever foodiness i had in week 3 i think. food just isn't that important to me anymore. i'd rather see a museum or library than go to "the" food spot. i mean its good, most stuff i eat i think is pretty good. before yelpers have a heart attack. believe it or not yelp isn't even a food site. its just a review site. and original purpose was for people to talk about things that were only spread by word of mouth. dentists, tailors, doctors, beauty shops, etc. foodies have taken it over, but it was never intended to be just a food site. its like if some day people only use yelp to date, will stil not make it a dating site, and even if theres 90% foodies on here, it still wont be a foodie site. my point is, food does not make me happy or bring me happiness. people do. i enjoy the people i eat with or meet, rather than the food i ate. i bet very few of us can name the food we had on our first date with our bf/gf or wife/husband. but you can remember the conversation or how you felt. if only we spent half the energy we did on our love for food on one another... wait what was i talking about? halal. so yeah i ain't gonna walk to search for this thing when my feet hurt anyways. so i had this one. and ?it was pretty good. the thing about carts in new york, its damn cheap. i got a drink and a huge combo for only 6 bucks. damn son! its about as good as any other middle eastern cuisine i had. whats funny is it comes with salad, and he asked if i wanted dressing. i said sure. i thought the dressing was for the salad but he actually put it all over the rice. for 6 bucks, its really good. but i dunno. i think i would still prefer the new york hot dog. or panda express.
I try and tell as many people about this food stand as possible. ?The gyros they serve here are excellent. I honestly can't get enough of them. I usually get the gyro bowl. The price is right too. I *think* it's about $6 or $7 (I can't remember). You definitely get your money's worth. The quality is high as well. There's a spicy sauce that's one of the hottest sauces I have ever encountered. People don't believe me at first how spicy it is until they try it for themselves. I am not sure how late they are there, but I have gotten food at 1am in the morning. I was shocked to see a line at 1am! This is the only street vendor that I have ever seen to have a line form, let alone at 1am. The only reason for 4 stars rather than 5 is they are a little rude (at times) but I guess you are not really getting food from a street vendor for their service. Regardless of this, I will continue to go and recommend to as many people as possible.
WARNING: If stool humor offends you, do not read further and fuck off. ?So the other day, 6 of us (my cousins and I) decided to visit this place (3 of us had never been here before and it had been a while for the other 3 of us). ?The 3 people in our group that had never been here before were in for the shock of their lives. We ordered up a bunch of chicken and rice, and lamb and rice and covered it with hot sauce and white sauce. ?This is where the fun began. ?For those of us that had been there before, we knew full well of the reputation of this hot sauce. ?I'm from Pakistan, I eat enough spicy food on a regular basis that I firmly believe I will have an ulcer by the time I'm 30. ?If my tongue isn't on fire or I'm not sweating, it's not hot enough. ?Suffice it to say, this hot sauce is one of the best I've ever encountered. ?The newbies weren't sure what to expect (and I don't think I helped one of them when I doused his plate in hot sauce...sorry Farhan...even though I put more in mine). ?It did not take long for some people to abandon their plates halfway in, and then order up about 4 cans of soda each. ? One of my cousins was worried about her stomach and if she'd be sick the next morning. ?Fortunately, this food is great and doesn't do a number on your stomach. ?I did, however, fully expect to be able to use my ass as a flamethrower in the morning. ?This is where I got a little strategic (you're my hero Bill Belichick) and I decided to take a minor crap right before I went to bed. ?It made all the difference, it seems, because I woke up and pooped with ease, to my surprise. ?Great food, no diarrhea, and no flaming shits. ?5 Stars.
I've never eaten from a NYC hotdog cart before but halal carts are insane. If I'm willing to travel to go from downtown all the way here at 3am to get food, this halal food is pretty damn good. The lines are always pretty long at the strangest hours. (I wonder how much profit he's making, I'm going to open a chicken and rice stand). Chicken over rice, with the "salad" and white and green sauce! *droolss* Also, I think he makes it extra salty because there's a drink cart just a couple steps away from his cart.
For those not in the know, when wandering down 6th Avenue as you pass by the Hilton, you can easily miss the finest New York's finest street fare. ?Or maybe not. ?Anytime from about dinner time to 4:00 am, you would be hard pressed to miss the line of, at any given time, forty to fifty people waiting. ?Its comical at first because you wonder what the line is for. ?Surely it can't be for the street cart. ?Surely it is for some secret underground club whose doors are underneath the street cart. ?Ha. No, it really is for the Halal Cart at 53rd and 6th. ?They serve three kinds of meat. ?You choose chicken, beef, or lamb, or mixed, or any combination thereof. ?Then you choose whether you want it on a pita as a sandwich ($4), with pita as a platter ($5), or with rice as a platter $6). ?The rice is laced with saffron and served over a bed of lettuce. ?The meat is savory and always perfectly seasoned. ?I don't know what kind of magic they do to it, but that first bite is insanely good. ?I always go for the rice platter. ?Its enough for two people. Its a bit of a madhouse. ?You need to know what you want and say it fast, have your money out, exact change preferred. ?If you don't know what to get, just say chicken rice platter to go, white and red sauce. ?You'll get a yellow plastic bag with everything you need to assemble away from the crowd that is pushing around you to get their order in. Then, once you get your food, you sidle over to the side of the cart where the white (yogurt based sauce) sauce and spicy red sauce await. ?First, you can never put too much white sauce on. ?Second, the red sauce will blow your brains out. ?It reminds me of siracha, only more concentrated, but has the same quality of adding a subtle flavor that once you've had it, you'll feel like something is missing if you don't at least put a little on. ?If you're on the run and don't want to put the sauce on right there, ask for the little to go containers they will oblige. Its a sight to see, everything from starving college students, high powered lawyers, girls dressed for a club night out, and everything in between sitting on whatever they can find to devour their food. ?Although most plates are easily enough for two, don't be surprised as you scoop up the last bit of rice by yourself.
What's the big deal? What's the big deal? I must hear that at least five times when I'm standing in that long ass line to get my lamb & chicken combo over rice. The big deal is that this spot is LEGIT, yo! ?Cheap, Good, and open late. C'mon, hella fools are waiting in line all night for a $6 dollar hit of some Halal crack in a bottle. That's right, that white sauce - with a little dab of red. Man, you're set up, money. ?Don't sleep. ?For some strange reason - for being "street meat" - I've never heard of anyone yackin' on this grub. Fo' Real. Just know what you want when you get to the front - you have a lot of time to figure it out, so don't piss off the other hundred people in line by stuttering. ?If you do, then you might catch a hot spatula to your grill. ?Also, go around to the other side of the cart for the sauces - keep it flowing. So, next time you're walking by, and you see the long line - don't ask what the big deal is - just shut up, rush to the end, and get in. ?You won't be sorry that you did. You might just see your boy Blaze posted on the water fountain grubbin' this cart food. Peace.
Craig's List: Missed Connections (New York City) To: Saucy little number in yellow - m4w (53rd and 6th) Hey. ?I picked you up last time I was here in NY. ?It was late at night and a totally unexpected encounter, but you looked delicious, wrapped in yellow and spiced up with red--with a hint of your soft whiteness covering your delicate yet saucy self showing through. ?Our time together was so memorable that I thought I would try to catch you during the day today, but you were nowhere to be seen. ?When I lamented this to my friends, they told me that you usually show up around 7:30 pm, right after work. I'm sorry I missed you. ?I will come back later this evening and hopefully you'll be waiting for me. * Location: 53rd and 6th * It's NOT ok to contact this poster with services or other commercial interests
I come in from jersey every weekend for this place. ?It doesn't matter where I'm partying in manhattan, chicken and rice is an automatic done deal afterwards. ?I get 2 portions every time i go, one to satiate my drunken hunger pangs that night, and then another to satisfy that intense craving for food in the morning. ?As sheer testament to how I have ingrained going to this place into my cerebral cortex, I commonly find myself waking up after a night of partying with this ambrosia laying around with no recollection of going there the previous night. ?Go easy on the hot sauce unless you are the devil himself.
it's all about the white sauce!
I don't why this place is getting 5 starts - it's a food cart! ?The food is greasy and mediocre at best. ?I went here after getting drunk on a bar a few blocks down. ?For some reason, we thought it would be a good idea to fill our stomaches with oil and alcohol at the same time... not a good combo. ?I ended up feeling really sick; the smell of the cart made me want to throw up. ?Maybe if I went a different time. ?Also, if someone tells you to go to any halal cart after drinking a ton because it "might be fun," refuse immediately.
I've been coming here on and off for two years whenever I make it up to midtown and this place does not disappoint. I heart the chicken/lamb combo and rice immensely. And with a combination of white sauce and hot sauce.... awesome! And who can argue with the price?! Too bad it's in Midtown, but I usually make a pit stop whenever I'm in the area.
holy smoly.. go. there. can someone superfreeze some and send it over please? yummy!
This cart never disappoints! ?I have to agree with my fellow Yelpers ?that there's a halal cart on every other street corner, but none can compare to this one. ?The line that forms for this cart every single day will tell you that others agree with me when I say, "This is one amazing street meat spot!!"
Best $5 I've ever spent! ?If you are on a budget or even if you're not, you ?NEED to stop and get a plate of chicken/lamb rice plate. ?The hot sauce is as hot as other yelpers say. ?But damn, it's tasty and I will keep eating it anyway. ? ?Beware though, make sure you find the right cart (just follow the one with the longer line) ?There are wannabes around.
Oh My Shizzzy... Are the thoughts that comes to mind when I think of this place... First off, I heard ramblings of this place few years back from buddies on how they would hike from Phily to NYC from just for this chicken and rice place. I was skeptical, especially since it was a food cart. But until I experienced it...wowowowow! Rice + Chicken + Lamb = Crazy good and it's only $6 Mix the yogurt Sauce with the hot and pour it over the rice. The hot sauce basically hot liquid magma so be careful. A must stop when I head to NYC.
Seriously..ok. ? Seriously over rated. ?From a middle eastern person, this is good but so generic. ?The line is absoultley bonkers most nights, the tender and succulent chicken, gyro or lamb {or even better the combination} served in a warm fluffy pita or in a platter with rice & pita; portion is big enough to share for $6. ?White sauce is too weird and seems mayonaise based which is totally not middle eastern, put it on the side in case you don't like it. ?The red sauce.. WAAAATCH OUT its SPICY SPICY SPICY! ?Worth trying but for anyone living in the NY area, nothing special
A little yelp story... My first day on my third trip to NYC, and I'm sitting in the Hilton New York wondering what I should eat. I turn to Yelp and its nifty map feature. The closest thing to eat is the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart with its almost 5 stars and approx 300 reviews. Sounds tasty. I decided to wait three days so I could try the Halal Cart when my boyfriend arrived in town, because it sounded right up his alley. What a mistake!!! I could have more Halal Cart if I just went without him before he got there! We went on Halloween after attending the Village Parade. We both got the full combo platters (chicken, lamb, rice AND pita) - $6. What a deal. It was hot and tasty. I'm glad I had read the yelp reviews warning about the hot sauce. I like spicy, but even in extreme moderation that stuff is a slow burn in your mouth. Tried a different cart later in the week--not as tasty more expensive. The 53rd and 6th is worth the wait.
The crackling flakes danced manically upon the charring husk of the cart, illuminating the starless night sky as I stood and watched helplessly. The cold chill tried to get the better of me and then just then the warm flavorful winds pushed the wonderful reek into my face and nostrils, and I tasted my own salty tears at the thought of the chicken gyro in my stomach. All I could think was, how am I going to yelp this? Anybody knows the short cut to heaven? ?You know when u pass by the 53rd and 6th street. Ask the twenty odd denizens waiting for redemption.
Fucking crack. that's what this place is, pure crack cocaine in all of its bloody good addictiveness. I went to New York for my new years celebration, and went to this cart on the first night of my trip. There were a group of us on our little escapade, and we just had to see what all the fuss was about. Chicken and rice? It couldn't be that good could it? Well, it fucking was. Let me tell you, the second night of our vacation, we went back again, but this time, each of us ordered two servings of combo (chicken, beef) and rice (extra white sauce please, and hold the lettuce!), and so our chicken and rice vacation went. I'm back home in California now, and after eating chicken and rice at least once a day while in New York, I must say, I think I am having withdrawals... A fair warning, the line is long, but it's worth the wait. Get extra white sauce, but unless you want your tongue burned off, sample the hot sauce before pouring a whole cupful onto your chicken and rice (I did it and was sweating after a few bites--that still didn't stop me from eating the whole thing of course). The servings are large, and on the first night we split two chicken and rices between four people and it was plenty. If you're on a tight schedule while in New York, forget the statue of liberty, just go get yourself some chicken and rice **Edit: I have just received news that my friend will be going to New York and returning to California with some chicken and rice for me in January. Thank the heavens!!! She just saved me a three hundred dollar flight. update again: she didn't bring me my chicken and rice. we are no longer friends because of it... kidding.
My life is just not the same after Halal! ?During my last visit to New York, my friends recommended that I try some chicken & rice. ?Chicken & rice?!?!?!!? ?Never thought food could be sooooo yummy! ? Warning: use hot sauce with caution!!
Oh how I have longed for thee... First of all, I want to say that the LAMB ROTISSERIE IS BACK! (back right) Yes, two of them. ?Alas, the wait was over. On the SE corner of 53rd & 6th, there he was..the Halal guy. How did I know? His umbrella awning and his shirt said so. At first glance, I was overwhelmed by the mound of chicken that stood on the cart. It was MASSIVE! (That's what she said). No idea how that paltry cart supported all that weight. It was defying all of Newton's laws. The line was not nearly as bad as I had imagined. Arrived at 12:15pm with about 10ppl in front of us. Same price for lamb/chicken/combo. I ordered the combo. It came with salad, rice. I saw peppers & onions (back center shelf) along with carrots & broccoli (back left shelf). They bagged my lunch so fast I didn't have time to react. Have to get the latter next time. Also saw them deep frying some falafel McD's style (front right), twin basket fryers and all. The basmatic rice (front center) looked radioactive with that orange sheen to it. The salad looked chopped and chunky (front left). When I carried it away, the bag felt like 1.25lb of food, roughly 50% more than what the Express Lunch cart gives you by Wall Street. Heck, they even have their own quality yellow plastic bags to put your food in. Note that by the time I got back to my desk, I had to leave the yellow bag tucked underneath my round foil container, as it leaked some jus! HALF chicken/HALF lambo rice combo: *PITA - one side of a pita trifolded, fresh *RICE - basmati, orange in color, saw some black pepper specs, a bit on the hard side for my taste..Express Lunch takes the cake for the rice category. *LAMB - roughly cut, super meaty, i preferred this over the Express Lunch lamb 'slices', packed with flavor *CHICKEN - very chunky, not as much garam masala as Express Lunch's aka not as savory, but there was lots of it *SALAD - chopped lettuce, big tomato chunks, this was OK *SAUCE - white was ok, Express Lunch's is better, spicy sauce was out of control! Not a hint of sour at all (a la tabasco), but purely spicy and dark red! I needed 3 10oz cups of water and 5 napkins to finish this meal, as my nose was dripping from the spicyness! I'll be frank with you..I was so congested from the spicyness that I had to blow my nose after finishing this. Too much preparation, too little H. Had to go after reading this today: midtownlunch.com/blog/20? Total came out to $5 after everything
OK, so you're wondering why I'm giving five stars to a dirty street cart. If you've lived in the city and haven't taken a late night meal from here, you can't call yourself a tried-and-true New Yorker. They're probably some of the best exponents of street cooking in the world, but this is an experience like no other. Just go there some night, oh, between 10 and 2. You'll see what I mean. The chicken (or lamb, should you prefer) is pretty good. It's seasoned well and is free of inedible connective tissue. I think what makes this cart particularly special is the fact that they use Basmati rice, colored yellow with the aid of God-knows-what, and possibly cooked in some sort of stock or even fried. Because every other damn cart uses regular long-grain or, worse yet, parboiled, rice. Everyone raves about the white sauce (presumably some garlicky bechamel or tzatziki), but I've never had it. Special, secret white sauces of dubitable origin aren't very appetizing to me. Get LOTS of HOT SAUCE!!!! Now, here's why you go: 1. Because there's nothing like watching two wannabe gangsta Desis arguing in Punjabi, with one punching the other in the teeth while he's eating, catapulting a chicken-and-rice platter into the air and making it a semi-lethal projectile. Said platter will ultimately land on a third party and, depending on his/her vindictive sensibilities, bedlam may ensue. 2. Because you can wait three hours in a line that's longer than what one would see at a Depression-era bank run. That's nightlife for ya! 3. Because of the profound gassage that will result from the consumption of one of these platters. Add two friends to the mix and you'll make the sweetest music ever heard.
i was here one very cold friday night after i visited MOMA across the other side of 6th avenue. ?i'm amazed that despite the price increase (the last time i was around, i remember paying $4.50), people were still lining up. ?i patiently waited for my turn counting at least 40 people ahead of me. ?i got a mix of halal chicken and lamb with yellow pilaf(?) rice with mayonnaise-like creamy sauce (i don't really know what exactly is in this mixture!), which was efficiently packed in less than a minute....i decided to eat it as i thought it's always best to eat the stuff when it's steaming hot!. ?it was an experience worth repeating! ?the temperature was around the 30s, and i was enjoying eating my halal food by myself ( i believe it's an acquired taste, that serves as a good introduction, in case i find myself in middle eastern countries), with koreans and latinos eating theirs a few paces away from me. i'm just glad the proprietor of this food cart has made sure the surroundings clean and tidy! those who were lining up looked like no-nonsense fellows who know what tastes good at the best price. ?some would just park their cars on the side, and eat right there & then. ?the police would go after them and be told to leave right away (as they're causing traffic)! i think it's best to make the trip to this food cart part of a regular visit to the MOMA, just to have more fun about some "ridiculous" art pieces, priced outrageously, and ?you'd see them exhibited there (some actually can be better executed by children who are still molding themselves to become artists!). ?you can actually just decide to order something to-go for your eating pleasure in the safe confines of your home!
omg the lineeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee hahaha geeeeezzz...its great to be a girl...just sneak up next 2 a guy and say "hey do u know Ali?".....who on that line doesnt know an Ali??...hahah lovezzz it...omg its good cheap and yay i love that lil red spiceyyyy sauceeeee
This place is cheap, delicious, fast.... overall GREAT. I always get the mixed platter; I believe it is $7. The food is great, the hot sauce can KILL LOL. My boyfriend loves this place and it's his favorite. For food vendors this is my #2. If you love this place, then you will also love "Sammys" a vendor in front of the Astoria Federal Bank on Broadway/Roosevelt (not too sure on exact location) Jackson Heights, Queens. Please be aware that 53rd and 6th does not have drinks; but there is another close by drink vendor (very expensive) and a 24hr deli.
Where do I begin? I'm not sure what I can add to the hundreds of reviews already posted, but the halal cart is so good, I have to try. We came to New York hoping to find cheap eats, and were gleeful when we discovered this cart right outside our hotel! ?The husband had a lamb pita (at 10:30am, no less) with copious white sauce, while my brother ate a chicken and rice plate much later on. ?Both were stellar, and must surely rank among the best street food in town, if those lines of people I saw wrapped around the block and waiting for their pitas are any indication. ?I had the unfortunate experience of trying another cart near Grand Central, and the sandwich was a greasy, abominable mess. ?I suppose trying the bad stuff only makes you appreciate the "Halal Guys" even more.
Awesome. The food is great. Its really hard to choose what to order because everything seems so delicious and the smell just makes you so hungry! In the end, I went with the lamb gyro. Lamb with white and hot sauce on warm pita. Yum. I have to say that the rice platter looked really good- that'll have to be for next time
after yelping several restaurants for a visit out of NYC..i came across the halal carts. i originally wanted to try the one of 53rd and 6th but some reviews said it was open until 7pm. i only had one afternoon in nyc before driving back to connecticut..i felt like i had to try all the cart foods there. i got my hot dog for breakfast which was ehhh..several hours later not being that hungry yet it was almost time for me to depart from NYC. but before i left i knew i HAD TO eat at a halal cart. i am obsessed with this type of food and after reading numerous reviews i knew i would be missing out if i didnt have a bite. so me and my friend came across this cart on 52nd&6th and ordered the chicken/lamb platter. we watched the guy cook it and he kept squirting this sauce on over the meat. the platter consists of either lamb or chicken or both, spicy rice or rice pilaf or both, bell peppers/onions, a small side salad and the best part of it..the white sauce on top!! ohh the white sauce..i wish i knew what it was. he also asked if we wanted the hot sauce..i dont normall eat spicy stuff but all the reviews said that its a must try. so we asked him to only put a little bit. we sat down right next to the pigeons to enjoy our last nyc meal. it was so amazingly delicious. i obsessed with it the whole car ride home. ?i couldnt get enough of it. ?2 weeks later...im back in orange county and im still obsessed with it. ive tried to yelp different places that sell it but havent been lucky. so if anyone knows of it a place..please tell me. if i ever take a trip back to nyc, i would eat this for breakfast, lunch, and dinner for all the days i was there!!
Orgasm in a box
Let me just preface this by saying that I really, really, REALLY hate waiting--for anything. Especially food. I tried the cart a few weeks ago and was the 4th person in line at about 7 pm, but I still ended up waiting 40 minutes while they finished setting up and cooking and all that other crap that running a cart requires. It was also 25 degrees, and it occurred to me, more than once might I add, that people can, indeed, actually FREEZE to death. But, in spite of it all, that was some damn good chicken, rice, and pita bread. ?Even the bed of lettuce they called salad was great when smothered in that yummy white-sauce goodness. ?Definitely worth the trek up from my place down in the Financial district. Ditto on the hot sauce warning other yelpers have wisely provided--it really is THAT hot and will definitely ruin the plate if you aren't careful with it.
The Halal Cart, or as I was introduced to it, Platters, is a New York City right of passage. Newcomers to the city cannot say that they've been properly baptized until they've stood in line, wasted, at 4AM for the lamb on rice or pita sandwiches. ? Like most masterpieces, it's simplicity is the crux. ?Lamb, chicken, or beef, rice, and lettuce. ?Add white/hot sauce and you are good to go. Beware of their HOT SAUCE. ?It should be a controlled substance. ?I'd say only Mamoun's hot sauce rivals this hell in a bottle.
chicken and rice was just what we needed at 4am after a successful night out with our bride-to-be friend. ?it was totally worth the wait. ?what an amazing way to end the night.
uhm. i love you? distance makes the heart grow fonder? :(
This is so good after a night of drinking. We lucked out and there wasn't a huge line tonight at 1AM. Definitely come here for some tasty food.
I would seriously fly to New York just to eat this again. ?Best drunk food in the world!
THE best truck food ever. Trust me, I've sustained myself in college with ready-made truck food more than half of the time. When done right, it's cheap, quick, and memorable, and sure, sometimes it gives you digestive problems, but it's also part of the memory. Having said that, I consider myself as an experienced truck food eater, and when I think of this Halal chicken 'n rice I think of it as absolutely the best street food in the States. If you get the combination of lamb, beef and chicken meat, on atop of rice and salad, and if you apply right amount of the white sauce and the red sauce (I'll come back to this sauce in a bit) it's heavenly. The chunkiness of the meat, grainy flavor of the rice, crunchiness of the lettuce, and the suaveness of the sauces is like Bernstein's magnificent orchestration of the NY Philharmonics, with everyone dressed-down, but still clutch. And if this is your last stop after a drunken night out, then it's like staring at the lava lamp with beer goggles on - it makes the flavors more intense and the experience more enjoyable. The best part of the experience is "the red sauce" that's probably as hot as (or maybe even hotter than) habanero pepper. I warn you, I'm not an expert in exact measurements of how spicy something is - I believe there is a scientific way to indicate how spicy, say, buffalo wings are - but I sure can handle spicy stuff and I love doing such. You gotta put in at least some red sauce in your meal to add kick to it. Again, though, it's REALLY REALLY HOT. And worth it. When I think of New York City and its food now, I think of this place, and Grey's Papaya recession specials. I miss you guys. I'll be back sometime.
This place is great. There's always a long line, but it's well worth the wait. The first time I went was on a Friday night. The next day, I went back but it wasn't there. In the subway, I saw the trademark yellow bags with red writing on them, so I asked them if they got there Halal on 53rd, and they said yes, but those people warned be about their specific times. They are there between 7pm and 4:30am. Also, this truck came third in the Street Vendy Awards two years ago.
I'm not really going to write a review that echoes the absolute RIDICULOUSNESS of the meat combo over rice, mixed with the spicy sauce and white sauce. There are many fantastic reviews from other Yelpers that have experienced heaven served from this street vendor lol. Instead, I think a story of a particular trip to 53rd and 6th will be more demonstrative as to why this late night hot spot is the guilty pleasure of MANY New Yorkers. This story is like "The Odyssey" meets "Harold & Kumar Goes to White Castle" Hope you enjoy! It was a Thursday night in late February 2008, and I was hanging out with a few of my friends at my hometown in Rockland County, NY - about 45 minutes away from Midtown. It was around 10pm and one of us had the great idea of making a trip to chicken and rice. Now, it's common for us to make late night random pilgrimages to 53rd and 6th, but the weather made this trip so much different. The temperature must have been 20 degrees out, but it wasn't snowing.... until all of a sudden, after only being on the road for less than 5 minutes, a BLANKET of snow starts coming down! Unfortunately none of us checked the forecast and apparently we were going to drive through the WORSE SNOW STORM in New York that winter! Of course, we didn't know that lol. My friend said "oh wow, it's really coming down" while my other friend was like "should we just turn around and go to a diner?", but after a brief pause all of us said "naaaaah" in perfect unison lol. So, 20 minutes later, we're at the end of the Palisades Parkway about to cross the bridge, and a thin sheet of snow was forcing us to drive 40 miles an hour; no big deal we all said. However, by the time we got off the West Side Highway, the God of Winter must have been pissed off at our bravado and just whipped up a storm! We parked on 52nd off the corner of 6th and that one block walk must have been the most adventurous walk in our lives! A hail of snow were hitting our faces, with a stiff wind blowing up against us, almost as if it wants us to go back to our car and go home. BUT NO! THIS WAS CHICKEN AND RICE! As I fought through the snow, I came across a sheet of black ice, tripped and fell, nearly breaking my neck but ended up with a sprained wrist from falling onto it. My gloves and the cold air, however, prevented me from noticing any pain. So we get to the cart, thinking there wouldn't be any line considering this terrible weather, but lo and behold, there was your typical 53rd and 6th Halal Cart line!!! And you know what, all of us started high fiving each other because we were in the presence of other hardcore fans! Every person standing on that line carried a sense of pride, as if all of us just climbed and conquered Mt. Everest! So me and my crew fell in line, huddling up so that our body temperature can provide some sort of warmth. As we waited for 15 minutes, the snow kept coming harder and harder and harder! When we finally came to the cart, we ordered our combo x 2 because we felt like we deserved more after going through what we went through. We literally PLASTERED our dishes with the white sauce, and to warm ourselves up, we added a bit more red sauce than usual hehe. We ventured back to our car, this time with the wind hitting our backs instead of our face, and devoured our platters! The worse, however, has yet to come! As we're making our trek back home, the snow was just insane. You could no longer see the black pavement - it was just a solid, 4 inch sheet of snow. 4 INCHES! In literally an hour and a half! We were driving almost 20 miles an hour, with perhaps a 20 feet of visibility. Remember, our original destination was 45 minutes away... under the assumption we're driving 65 mph! Going back home would take three times as long!! The thing is, it went even longer, for we got into a minor car accident =/ What happened was that a family of deer ran across the highway, forcing me to break hard. This caused my car to lose control, went into a spin, and finally landed onto a pile of snow that filled up a mini-valley off the highway. My car was stuck, as if we fell onto a pile of quick sand; there was no traction for it to get out. Fortunately none of us were hurt, and there was very minor damage to my car. I called 911 and AAA, cops came onto the scene about 15 minutes later, with the tow truck coming 15 minutes after that. After giving the officer the details of the incident, the mechanic said my car is fine and is okay to drive home. We finally got home 3 hours AFTER we left Manhattan, around 3am. We took off our jackets, went to my living room, turned on the TV, and started eating our second batch of chicken and rice hehe. My wrist started to hurt like a b***h, so I had to use my opposite hand to eat haha. ?As we were eating, one of my friends asked if all that happened tonight was worth it. And you know what? All of us agreed... It was worth every moment =) 53rd & 6th BABY! I'M LEAVING IN 15 MINUTES TO GET SOME AS WE SPEAK
This place has been my all-time favorite street vendor, for good eats at such a reasonable price. I used to come here religiously as I partied in the city, but it's been a couple years since I been here, so I decided to go down here with some friends to grab a bite after some drinks. At 9pm, the lines were already pretty long, averaging about a 30-45 minute wait. We finally made it to the front of the line, and there were 4-5 guys in their yellow signature T-Shirts and another guy in black taking orders. I went with my usual order, combo platter (lamb gyro and chicken over yellow rice, with pita bread and salad) for $6. I was surprised that they raised the prices from $5 to $6, but I figured it was probably because of all the fame and good street cred they have been getting. Long lines, having their own T-shirts, that spoke for itself. As I was waiting for my platter, I noticed that they no longer shaved the gyro (lamb) meat off the doner kebab (vertical rotisserie). Some guy was carrying catering size trays of gyro meat and chicken, which appeared to already be precooked. They threw the meat on the grill and let it cook a bit. A lot of the chicken was being burnt and sticking to the grill, but I figured what the heck. With such long lines, I guess they have good reason to precook their meat, shave it, and bring it to the grill on catered trays. It still lost a bit of its authenticity. I finally received my platter, and it was larger than what I had remembered a few years back, but still in its round platter. The guys no longer put the hot sauce, white sauce, and BBQ sauce on. The guy informed me to go on the side of the kart to put on my sauces. I threw on some white sauce and hot sauce. I finally found a few seats one block south on the southwest corner of 52nd and 6th. For those that find the seats right around the kart too crowded, take a walk one block south and you'll find plenty more seats. I finally took a bite into the platter, and the meat tasted pretty delicious but pretty subpar. It did not taste as fresh and tender as if it were shaved off the doner kebab, but it still packed a lot of flavor. The chicken was tender but slightly drier than what I had remembered and compared to other street vendors. The hot sauce was EXTREMELY HOT, much hotter than what they used to carry. I advise anyone who likes spicy food, to bring a drink just in case. This is no walk in the park. Overall, I was a bit disappointed in their combo platter, selling out only to make a profit and appeal to the city-wide fame they gained. I wish they would go back to their roots and serve their food as they once had. Instead, they are serving to the masses for pure profit. (I guess there is no wrong to that). For that, I will give 53rd and 6th Halal Cart only 3 stars. The food is still very good, but not as good as it used to be. It's still worthwhile to try out if you've never had it before.
me and my friend missed our flight back to california because we HAD to stop by this cart and get some chicken and rice before heading to the airport...(we ended up having to pay $100 each to get on the next flight) not sure if the chicken and rice was worth $100...but it was the most delicious thing ive had. mmmmmm
Ever since i made the jump from Cali to Ny, i found myself comparing the food over here to the food back home. ?So far... Cali has kicked the living shit out of Ny's Mexican, korean, thai, and Chinese food by a landslide. ? ?This lil gem however only charges 5 bucks a plate... big portions and it is freaking good... like ridiculously good. ?So good i wish they had it in california... ?Seriously, totally worth the wait.
No regrets my friend ...just dive in to a platter of succulent lamb/chicken rice with the secretly delicious white and explosively hot sauce !
Obviously this place is a big deal... you can come by after bars close at 4am in the rain and still have a line 25 deep. Its good food... but I'm going to have to go against the grain and say its not as good as people say (which is that its so orgasmic that you'll make your own white sauce in your pants). I think what makes it so good is that its famous amongst drunk people at a certain time of night. It always tastes good because whenever you get it, you're f*cking wasted, and with enough wasted friends that someone says "hey lets go to that chicken and rice place and destroy some food". Not to say that's not great, if I'm drunk off my ass I'll probably want to come here over others so I can delay going home with fellow alchies... Also don't try to be a man with their hot sauce, it'll melt your face off.
as good as they say. this place will always have a huge line, so dont be fooled by the other vendors lurking around. $6 for a huge bowl of food that can last 3 meals...as good as it gets!
I've been to New York only twice in my whole life and I happen to have visited this cart 4 times already. ?A friend who has tried this cart in past took us to try it, and I've been hooked ever since. ? You can tell how this cart separates itself from other similar carts. ?THE LONG LINE!!! ?Obviously, the long line during the evenings tell you one thing: ?If there's a line almost as long as half the block; it must be good! You won't be disappointed and any new yorker will tell you that this cart is better than any other "halal" carts around it's surrounding corners. I've only ventured to have the chicken plate with the white sauce. ?I'm not brave enough to try the spicy sauce. ?Huge portions large enough to share and doesn't put a dent in the wallet! Next time I stay in New York. ?I'll stay at the Hilton right next door so I can eat at this cart for three meals a day.
In New York visiting my sister I HAD to find this cart again for chicken and rice with white and hot sauce. Well worth blisters from wandering up from Soho not remembering where it was. Portions are HUGE so if a tourist unable to preserve leftovers don't plan on eating dinner the day you get this treat.
As far as food carts go this place is definitely worth the wait. $6 meat and rice plates ,doesnt get better than that, my fav is the lamb and rice, chicken is a little bland for my liking. You get the option to add the creamy white sauce and the spicy red sauce to the dish. It also comes with side pita and salad, ?I usually ask them to hold the salad, it doesnt really do much for the dish. My roommate literally ate here everyday during Ramadan. Packed on Friday and Saturday night with club goers till the wee hours of the morning. A useful tip for people wanting to avoid the lines : The cart on the South East Corner has the exact same food and almost no lines, its run by the owner's brother and at times you will see his them moving food from one cart to the other across the street.
This place is amazing. I was here around 3:30 AM on a Saturday morning and cannot say more about this place other than the fact that you HAVE TO TRY IT. The best food I've tasted for $5.00 out of my pocket. The lines are long but moves quickly and they give you a generous portion of food as well as sauce and extra(s) when you ask for it. I've had friends who are hungry who asked for re-fills that they gave FOR FREE! I am a huge fan of the lamb and beef but heard the chicken one is pretty good. I am definitely coming back here on my New York trip in December!
HALAL CARTS are AMAZING. I know this will be the #1 thing that I miss when i go back to L.A. The combination chicken and beef/lamb is amazing. Im not a big lamb fan but you cant taste the difference between the lamb and beef. The red and the white sauce is the iceing on the cake. AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING... not just this halal cart, every halal cart I have seen has blown me away, AMAZING
***WARNING*** Danger Will Robinson.... For those of you familiar with this cart, you know that the hot sauce is hotter than the average Halal cart, and to be used sparingly .....However, what you may not know, is that sometimes at night, they make the white and red sauce self serve.....and that hot sauce bottle is way way too easy to squeeze when you are drunk. Leading to rampant clawing at your tongue to make the burning stop....not that you won't finish the whole platter, but it will burn. This place is pretty close to my office, so drunken munchies aside I'm there pretty often (during the day, they put the hot sauce on for you) Its damn good, I highly recommend the lamb/chicken combo over rice and salad. It's a great meal, and can be easily split if ?you aren't that hungry. And for five bucks, its pretty damn hard to beat. Reason it gets four stars instead of five, is that I just don't think it's leaps and bounds ahead of other halal carts, I mean it's good, and if I'm in the area I would stop, but is it worth traveling out of your way.....eh probably not.
All right here is my second review for this place. Anyone who caught my Facebook status messege saw this "Ben C. is sitting in school and waiting til 7:30 to go to the 53rd and 6th halal cart since its raining and hopefully the line will be smaller." Here goes my review... Hello my name is Ben C. and I'm addicted to crack.. CRACK IN THE WHITE SAUCE THAT IS!!! Anyone who was in the city today knew it was raining cats and dogs. But my addiction couldn't be kicked. The crack (white sauce for all you slower people =P) was calling my name. So when 7:30 rolled around I made like clockwork and ran down the stairs and out the door of Pace U. with lightening speed. Hopped on a train and made my way to the famous spot. 53rd and 6th.. What happened when I got there? There ?was a line! A F****** line!!! In the rain!! WTF!? My plan failed me. There I was standing in the rain like the addict that I was with my other fellow addicts. Nobody said a word. Some came prepared with umbrellas and hats. Others, myself included, couldnt resist the urge and showed up with no umbrellas or hats. We stood there, our addictions getting the best of us, in the freezing cold rain. When I finally got towards the front I looked up to see what had held up the line for so long. Some kids (they got the kids too! oh no!) had purchased three bags full of platters with at least 3 or 4 platter in each bag. ADDICTS... So I get to the front and pay the man my $6 and greedily snatch the bag of lamb and rice with my shaking, wet hands. Run back to the train and rip it open as soon as I find a seat. Grabbed the sauces, all in the little containers since it was raining, and started pouring, scraping, licking, and sucking out every last bit. When I get to the red sauce I tear it open to find the equivelant of probably 5 tiny drops. I'm thinking to myself "Oh hell no I stood there for 20 minutes in the rain and he's gonna shorthand me on the hotsauce!?" Boy was I wrong. Oh please forgive this young fool oh demigods of the Halal Cart. I was young, I was naive. I did not know just how spicy your hot sauce was. I have learned the hard way and now have become enlightened. Like the naive yuong man I was I decided to just go without the hot sauce since I figured I got shorthanded and just scraped it all out onto a pita bread. Well you guess it ladies and gentlemen, I was breathing fire until I got to West 4 on the D train before I finally thought to shove some of the white sauce in my mouth to cool it off. Lesson learned. So thats my review. Soaked from head to toe. Carried enough water in my clothing by the time I got home to fill several soy sauce buckets (about 5 gallons a piece probably). All for the satisfaction of one for hit. Goddam I'm a crack-white sauce addict. CRACK SAUCE FOR LIFE!
After waiting in line and smelling grilled meat for 30 minutes, we finally got to order from the famed Halal Cart. ?My friend and I ordered the lamb and rice platter, which was in my hands immediately after exchanging $6. ?It was plenty for the 2 of us; however, we encountered one tiny glitch. ?The Hot Hot sauce is.....HOT. ?I usually like hot sauce and so I dove right in and was enjoying getting warmed up from the cold wait. ?Then the spice HIT me. ?My mouth was on FIRE. ?Fortunately, we had also added the ranch sauce which helped cool the burn and tasted fantastic with the flavorful lamb chunks and lettuce. WARNING: Hot sauce is HOT sauce. ?Use sparingly - if you dare.
Just like Camille C., my New York friend who was showing me and my BFF around told us about the hype of the Halal cart on 53rd and 6th. But there was such a long line at 3am and we were starving, so we walked down to this less crowded joint. OH BOY, OH BOY, chicken and rice w/hot sauce was SOOOO goood. Yes, I was a bit buzzed, but I can still distinguish what good food tastes like. I'm so jealous of them New Yorkers now. On the west coast, we only get Jack in the Box or iHop that late. I am sad that I only got to try this one night during my entire week in NY. Next time I'm in town, will definitely line up to try the Halal cart on 53rd and 6th. I'm waiting to give that stand all 5 stars.
Great tasting meat! ?The food is always fresh because it's constantly getting replenished. ?The prices can't be beat for the amount of food you get.
Every time I come to NYC i have to come here... they will make a veggie platter for you (which I appericate) you can't go wrong with the whitesauce... check out the documentary I did on the 53rd and 6th Stand youtube.com/watch?v=BxJm?
Simply amazing for street food. Huge portions, tender and juicy chicken and lamb, hot & steamy (not dried-out) rice, mysteriously delicious "white sauce" and friendly staff. I always opt for the combo platter: chicken and lamb over yellow rice with lettuce, tomato, sometimes pita on side.
New York. Just the name in itself speaks volume. The culture, the people, the food, the life, the hustle and bustle. New York is so colorful, it's impossible to say answer, what is New York. However, All New Yorkers could be divided into two parts. One, those who have had Chicken-N-Rice ?and two, those who have not! Place & Price: Can't get better than the STREET for $7 or less. +1 for bottled water or can of soda. Food: ?You have the choice between, Gyro which is messy but melts in your mouth OR the famous PLATTER. My vote is for PLATTER. I recommend, mix platter which has chicken and lamb with lot of white sauce, lot of hot sauce (be carefully its really HOT) with salad and extra pita. People: These guys are BUSY so be quick and get out of the way. Oh there might be occasional D-Bag who will try to cut in front of you. Don't be afraid to give them a piece of your mind. Man I am in freaking California now, I miss this place. I crave it ALL THE TIME...yummmy DELISH!
One of the best meals I have had in New York and it was from a cart. This is truly a place for locals, the neighborhood is all but dead by the time these guys start cooking. Like most good eateries, this one has a loooong line. But it is totally worth the wait. The chicken is so good, nice and tender. And the sauces are to die for. It is very cheap as well and I always have some left for breakfast the next day.
OMG! This was the best food I ate in my trips to NY, and surprisingly it was right outside the hotel we stayed at for one of our trips. We'd walk back each night tired and exhausted, and wonder - what is that long line for? Well - tired AND hungry one night, we decided to get in line without even knowing what the food was. When we got up, we were like... middle eastern food? YUK! But we stuck with it after hearing the hushed whispers of how great the sauce was. And great it was! I really don't know what they put in that sauce, but I've tried over a dozen Halal or Middle Eastern Restaurants back home and they haven't came anywhere NEAR the quality of this stuff. And no - the hot sauce wasn't too hot, but that's coming from a Californian who's use to eating some spicy Thai/Asian cuisine. It did have a good bite too it though and for the neophytes it might be a bit too much. Thank the lord the white sauce isn't spicy at all and can easily be enjoyed by all. Go with the lamb/chicken rice plate!!!
Chicken over rice = UNBELIVABLY DELISH!! I was craving this every single night when I was in NYC. The combination of yellow rice, salad, chicken, pita, and the white sauce was just perfect. BEWARE of the red sauce however. I am a super Korean who can handle insanely spicy foods but this red sauce was so spicy that my tongue started to hurt and I couldn't finish the rest of my plate. Huge amount for only $6 - it doesn't get any better than this. I wish there was something like this in CA. =(
$6 lamb or chicken over rice! Huge portion, and it was SO delicious. Their red sauce is dangerously spicy but the white sauce is amazing. I thought their chicken is just okay and I've tried some other Halal carts in the city. But the lamb here is super good.
There was nothing ordinary about some of the best food I had in New York. Situated on a windy corner in the city, the Halal Cart offers the best in lamb, chicken and rice. For $6.00 I got over a pound of food mixed with lettuce and smothered in yogurt sauce, which btw, makes the dish. Beware of their tasty but dangerous hot sauce, it WILL have you breathing fire for the next 2days. Really! ?Chewing habanero-on-a-stick wouldn't be as bad. ? We got there at 5:30pm and no wait! =)
We were drunk and in need of food, and I remembered this place from my yelp searches. ?Ordering one to share, we realized our mistake as soon as we each took bites and ended up buying another one right away. The sauce they use is ridiculous, I swear it would make all food taste better. ?The meat is tender, and seasoned just right and the pita is perfectly soft without being soggy. After that night we came back to this cart every single day for the rest of our trip. ?Even though it was almost always crowded, we never had too long of a wait, and it was always perfect. Just another reason to move to NY...
Okay this is a common trend in yelp to give rave reviews to whatever is popular. This place is good for 1 thing. That thing is a lot of food for a cheap price. Now the problem with the place is that the line is way too long always. Secondly, the rice is very oily and stale usually and the meat isn't very juicy, it is consistently dry. I only eat at this place when I need a meal that I can also save for lunch the next day. If you want a real good tasty plate go to down to 3rd ave. and 53rd. That dude on the north east corner has the bomb gyro.
Certainly a healthy portion, and don't forget the white sauce, and the spicy red if you dare, and one of the better fast food places to grab a quick bite to eat late at night - - though I have to admit, the line of drunken people kicks this down a notch or two for me. ?I'm here to enjoy a tasty bite of lamb, but there's usually a loud, obnoxious crowd here starting even earlier... unfortunate, but it is fun to see the drunks try to down their servings neatly and miserably failing. ?Best bet for a decent meal - come after lunch or just before. ?Avoid the lines, and the crazy people that smell like liquor.
Simply the best late night food, the pita is great. ?But as everyone else has said, be wary of the hot sauce, it's killer.
Dear Lord, Thank you for creating this earth, but most of all, thank you for bringing halal into this world. ?I hope the people of 53rd and 6th end up in heaven, where I also hope to be. ? Thanks. ***You will NOT regret this place. ?Like all other 'yelpers' this place definitely doesn't need another review but deserves one anyway. ?Just be prepared to order so you don't get wiped out by the crowd. ?Yes, it does get crowded, but worth the wait. ?Every time I am in NYC, I have one every night--even if I've already had dinner.
I'll just throw my 1.5 cents in to agree that its really good, its really cheap, its available at the hours you really need greasy yummy food, and its kind of a NY institution. ?And the line isnt as bad as people say...it comes and goes.
THIS IS SO AMAZING. I got lucky and my friend actually lives about a block over from this place and told me about eating here, only if its past 10PM, as an un-legit version of the cart sits there before nightfall. had the mix plate, extra hot sauce (FREAKING SPICY). actually it was so popular i met up with some of my friends while in line, which was ridiculous random. the food is just perfect. There's no other thing ive ever eaten that i can say was perfect food but this was damn close. The meat was perfectly shredded and seasoned, and the rice and vegetables went perfectly together with everything. top it off with all the sauces, and you got a great late night meal.
Protip: 53rd & 6th is on the Southwest corner after 8 pm (the cart that's there during the day is not the same, though it's pretty good); this is the location with the long line. The cart on the southeast corner is run by the same people and has a much shorter line (often no line). IT'S THE SAME FOOD. Look for the halalguys.com umbrella.
I always get the chicken/lamb over rice. I still can't comprehend how freaking good this is. ?This is probably one of my favorite places to eat. ?I always have to eat here anytime i am in town. Halal Cart is the best!!!!!!!!!!!!!
When Yelp strikes back.! Seriously, is everyone taking crazy pills?! ?Act like you've been to a halal cart before. ?More power to the guys running the stand and cashing in people's pack-mentality. ?But c'mon. ?Quantity wise the value is decent, but the quality is sacrificed by cooking huge trays of boiled chicken to feed the steady stream of sheep. ?Pretty much any halal cart that cooks in smaller portions will be much tastier and fresher, as well as better seasoned. ? Try the halal guy at the corner of 4th St and 6th ave for instance, or better yet try the halal guy at 4th st and broadway (I don't want to be waiting in any ridiculous and unnecessary lines for my corner halal cart). Me thinks that this may have become such a cult phenomenon because it only operates late-night and 80% of people eating this are faded and super-agreeable with anything involving calories. ?Lastly, why would anyone want to go to Mid-town to drink anyways? ?I think that out-of-towners unfamiliar with your average halal cart also likely played a role in the legend of this "random and amazing" food cart.
A-M-A-Z-I-N-G!!! I bow down to this Halal Cart. You can't get any better than this on the streets of New York City. I had this back in August of '07 and I still think about it to this day. After watching the US Open at the Rockefeller Center, we decided to roam the streets of NY. My brother's genius girlfriend said we should stop by and grab some of the best cart food one could ever have. I remember my first bite of this heaven sent lamb gyro like it was just yesterday. I still remember pouring the ridiculously spicy hot sauce over the lamb and slowly biting it as if it were my last meal ever. It was so damn delicious that we ordered two more for breakfast the next day. If you are ever in NYC, make sure to venture over to 53rd and 6th to get your mind blown away!
After reading all the reviews I made sure that I had to visit this cart during my stay in NY. I am so glad I did. Their food is so good!! A cart that has a line must mean something and it has lived up to all of my expectations and much more. I went two times during my visit after getting out of a Broadway show. I always got the combination (chicken, beef, and lamb) over rice with the pita bread and all for $7 that is a steal. The portions is big enough to share with 2 people so thats even more of a steal! I pour on the white sauce like no other and I was pretty cautious with the infamous hot sauce. Theres a reason the devil is red and let me tell you I think the devil created this sauce. Man it is brutal I could feel my internal organs burn up but it's so addicting like an addict who loves crack. I've been missing and craving this place ever since coming back home. *Tears* I'm contemplating whether to permanantly move to NY just to be closer to this cart.
This place is one of the best street carts I've been to. Luckily I haven't stayed in line for too long, maybe because I get there within the first two hours the cart opens. But sitting and eating near the cart you can see the line getting longer. I love their lamb, chicken, rice, and pita bread. Their white sauce and hot sauce are yummy too! Everything really I ever got there was simply delicious. It's nice and warm with generous servings. The price is reasonable, I believe between $5-$7 for a plate. The people are really nice too.
Amazing. Always good, the boys and I try to make it here at least once a month - we go as a group, but there's always someone who ends up trawling over a couple times a month. It is delicious and has a little of everything: salad, rice, chicken... I highly recommend the hot sauce if you can deal with the heat, but you're going to need at least two doses of white sauce to mix in with it. Sooo good and just a really nice vibe - this is hard with cart food! The staff are really hard workers and efficient, and the cart runs smoothly. Brought some back to the momma and she loved it, friends love it, and hopefully others who come to town will too. Please get the combo chicken and rice, and maybe a second one for the next day? Also don't forget: the line is worth it!
LOVE it!! ?It's the perfect stop when you have a late night hunger attack. ?No matter how late or cold it is outside, there's always a long line, but the food really is pretty amazing. ?Hot, full of flavor, and I especially love the super spicy sauce that you add on- just make sure you can handle the heat!
um why this is so amazing that i am practically drooling as i am writing this, i don't know but everyone someone i know brings up this street corner i feel the need to run over there right away.. maybe i will as soon as the clock strikes 7pm tonight..
Heard of this infamous cart on Yelp and I had to drag the bf there. ?He thought I was crazy for walking from Times Square to try food from a cart but it was worth it. ?The line was long but not crazy long. ?I was nervous I would order wrong but I went for the chicken. ?The walk and the wait was worth it. ?Even though I ate it at the hotel after it was cold, it was still so good and filling. ?A must stop for everyone!!
Oh my GODS. I have never loved halal so much food and raved about it for like 3 hours straight. My friend and I came here tonight at 11:30pm on a monday night, we got our food within ?7 mins of waiting in line. You had the choice of beef, chicken and lamb. Rice or sandwich. My friend and I split the rice with lamb, costing us an awesome 6 bucks. IT WAS SO -censored- GOOD! They were incredibly quick about putting things together and getting that line going. The pita was soft and chewy, the lamb was delicious especially with the white sauce, the hot sauce added such a delicious touch to the whole thing. I was in heaven for a good 15 minutes as we scarfed everything down. Dude, I cant describe to you how happy I am eating from there. WORDS. ARENT. ENOUGH. And it was pretty filling for $6 for two people. I'm so happy that right next to it was a cart with $1 beverages. Wo0+s!
I came across this cart by accident, since i was staying the Hilton which was right across the street. At first, i didn't know what was going on but the two times we passed by the cart, there were always lines forming despite the cold NYC weather. so we figured it must be good, and we tried it for a late night snack... and IT WAS GOOD! for $6 you get either chicken/beef/mixed chicken and beef, rice, pita bread, white ranch looking sauce and a red hot sauce. the portion was very generous and perfect for the weather. i'm a fan! :)
Not that great or bad. ?An experience but I won't be running back to have it again.
I was recently here after a late night of free drinks with my sis and Irina. The food was alright, not wow, but filling. Everything in the chicken platter tasted mediocre/bland (extra white sauce helped). I was expecting flavorful seasoned chicken chunks... atleast chopped but got shredded chicken over funny tasting rice (plasticky). It wasn't bad though, sharing a $6 platter with Irina was a good idea (I stuck with the fresh lettuce and warm pita). My sis inhaled her own platter.... fat a$$.
I am kicking myself...literally I am beating myself up! I think I have bruises.... Why? Because I work at 55th and 5th and yesterday was the first time I visted this mecca of street food. I did not know chicken and rice could be this good. My mouth is salivating just imagining the perfectly seasoned tender chunks of meat...the glorious white sauce...the oh' so hot "hot sauce". Not only is the food the best street food in town... but the guys running the cart are extremely nice, super fast and they charge next to nothing for a meal. Now that I know what I have been missing out on...expect to see me several times a week chowing down next to the cart. Anyone want to meet up for a little dinner date???
Chicken and rice. At 4 am, scoping out a spot next to the fountain so it can be eaten then and there. ?Red sauce or white. ?Doesn't matter as long as it's so burn your mouth spicy hot even I need a little water. ? ?I do wonder if it would be as tasty in the middle of the day. ?One of these days I'll have to find out, though typically that chicken and rice craving is directly connected to a need to soak up alcohol. ?Haven't had a hangover yet after a late night meal there so if it works don't fix it.
There are other carts in the city that I enjoy immensely for other reasons, but the combination of the experience, the sauces, and the method by which they cut up the chicken/lamb to avoid gristle and other no-nos make this a must-have experience for anyone not afraid to dine from an establishment that does its business on the side of the street. At least its a relatively classy street, near the tony shopping of fifth avenue and the Hilton which has helped me to locate this cart while drunk on more than one occasion. Now, I've noticed another reviewer mention the other locations: I myself just noticed that last night. But I do have to say the camaraderie and experience of waiting in the long line are a vital part of the experience. I hate to curse the other locations any more (they rarely have any sort of a line), but I think this location has got to be it. Most get the rice platter, but personally, I think the 4 dollar sandwich is the best. Of course I was raised by a man who looked forward to post-dinner leftovers for sandwiches more than the main course, so I might be biased. But the sandwich is the perfect post-bar meal, compact, greasy and flavorful. One final note, which I'll say as discreetly as I can.. don't go too crazy with the hot sauce, or you'll be reminded throughout the next day of what you had for dinner at 2 AM the day before.
How have I not written a review about a place when I eat at least three meals a week there and am never disappointed. ?What is there to say? I eat 3+ meals a week , the same order, and yet I still get deep cravings which will get my lazy ass out of bed when nothing else will. I am willing to bet there are probably 60 halal stands closer to my home but I only eat at this one. I eat this shit hot or cold, and if I ever found a woman who could make this meal there is a good chance that she would have to get a restraining order against me. ? ? Word to the dumbarses the cart across the street serves the same food, in fact if you pay close attention there are little giveaways, like the same signs, sweatshirts and meat delivery guy who walks between the two cart. Don't be an idiot, get your white sauce on and get it fast.
friends talk about you, you have great reviews, you have a website, but i cant try anything from you. too bad soo sad. here are 4 stars for your fame.
During my wonders of being a new york tourist, my friend, who lives in Brooklyn, and I were craving a midnight snack at 2am in the morning. ?Coming from the bay area, my idea of the only place open late would be denny's. ?No sirree, here in new york fabulous eateries are open and the Halal cart being one of them! I have never heard of a 'halal cart' or 'halal food.' --nonsense to me. ?I ordered the combo rice plate. ?It came in this aluminum pan filled with lettuce, orangy rice, chunks of lamb, chicken, beef, and pieces of warm pita bread. ?I ladled some white sauce all over, since my friend said it was a must. ?One bite into this concoction and I was blown away at what I had been missing. ?It was sooo delicious. ?Chewy pieces of meat and crunchy lettuce and pita to munch with and rice for stuffing my snack craving was satisfied. ? This is a must for any tourist, as it was one of my many highlights during my visit there. ?It's affordable, yummy, big portions and you can eat it while observing the mad new york drivers.
i hate to disagree with almost everyone on this place but really, i dont understand whats the hype about this place. i guess cause its open late at night and its cheap? well thats one star. the food was bland, the 'lamb shawarma' was weak and it had a funny texture. the most remarkable thing about this place was what happened to me while i was walking there. im walking in the rain, cold, sipping on some hot tea and i hear a womans voice 'hey baby, do you need some company?' - i figured she was talking to me cause i was the only one walking on the sidewalk as it was 3am, so i approached her luxurious suv. there she was, beautiful, gorgeous young woman in a tiny dress. she asked me if i wanted a bj. just like that. straight up. out of nowhere. i looked to my right, i looked to my left. i peeked inside the suv. i looked at the sky, i laughed at myself and asked her if she was a cop. she said no. then i asked her if she was kidding me. (cruel joke, btw) and she said no. so i stood there in shock, looking at her straight in the eyes. 'whats your name?' i asked. she told me her name. i shook hands with her, i said well, it nice to meet you. i love new york, i should go. so the halal cart gets another star because of this.
oh my freaking bomb. ?the line is always so long, but its like waiting seconds for something so damn scrumptious. ?be sure not to skimp out on the red sauce and white sauce. ?ooooo that red sauce is spicy and sometimes i pay for it the day after, but it's worth every agonizing moment. ?HAHAH!!! ? the chicken must be flavored with some kind of addictive substance. ?i'm here all the way in california having a craving attack. ?it's cheap, and it's open late. ?omg omg omg, can someone mail me some to Cali plzz
The line was loooong, it was freezing outside, and it was drizzling... but it was oh so worth it! ?Tasty satisfaction to fill your belly with the lamb/chicken combo or the lamb sandwich after a night out with your friends! ?Fast, cheap, and open late, they just can't be beat... except maybe by a bacon hot dog cart! ?(Do they have those in New York?? yelp.com/biz/bacon-dog-c?) ? The combos were $6, and the lamb sandwiches (basically a gyro) were $4. ?See uploaded pictures for the delicious goodness you get at that price. ?Smother it with the delicious white sauce, and if you dare, the red sauce. ?Someone seriously drenched the top of my lamb sandwich with the red sauce, which I didn't think was that spicy; it was comparable to the spiciness of Sriracha imho, but some of my friends definitely regretted putting so much of it on... so be warned! ?Otherwise, a hangover may not be the only thing you are feeling the next morning!
In three words: spicy cheap yum
How is this not a Michelin 3-star rated restaurant? Long wait? Check. Focused (small) menu? Check Staff that couldn't care less whether or not you're there? Check Delicious food? Check Check Check. My favorite is definitely the chicken/lamb and rice combo. Thinking about the coolness of the white sauce and fierceness of the hot sauce is giving me a mouth-orgasm now. I'm buying my ticket to NYC now.... done and done.
(Jan/ 2007) Who honestly spends a half an hour trying to find a food cart in New York City? *raise hand* We do! After giving heat over how ridiculous we look attempting to find the right Halal cart in the streets on NYC, we finally found it. And let me say.. YUM! With a handful of other Halal carts just lined up across the streets, there's something to say about the cart with the line. We tried a chicken and rice platter combo. It'll make you crave for more. Beware of the hot sauce! It just goes to show you can find great food everywhere-- even on a street cart!
Can you eat Lamb? Or Just try it. Please must try it. You don't have to go to Middle-east, pakistan or any fancy restaurant. If you have $6 and you can be patient to wait till 7pm and willing to wait (if there is a big line) for your chance to get one of the BEST lamb-dish EVER, you SHOULD/MUST try this awesome food. Portion is HUGE and you get meat, salad, rice and flat-bread. Secret white sauce and spicy sauce. Must try white sauce (if you can't handle spicy sauce). Seriously too die for... You would want to just settle in NY just to eat this everyday. Please forget about hot-dog, hamburger or sushi for one night and try this. This will make your day!! PS: Did I say that I am not a big fan of meat and especially middle-eastern food and pretty picky-eater? :) It's seriously good.
On my recent trip to NYC, this was my first meal upon arriving in the Big Apple. The chicken and lamb rice combo is bomb! And for $6 or $7 (I didn't pay, I don't know how much it cost) they give a lot of food. You can even smell the goodness as you approach the cart. ?The white sauce is a must, it adds flavor and then the food is not so dry. ?The red sauce, only use if you can handle the a lot of spicyness! I just tasted it and couldn't handle the heat. ?They only downside is that there is usually a line....even if its raining people line up for chicken and rice, so it MUST be worth it. Supposedly the real chicken and rice only occurs after 7;30 pm...shrugz...maybe there are different cooks or something during the day. But definitely hit this place up for a quick, cheap, filling and all around good meal!
Im sure every New Yorker knows about this place especially after a long fun night out partying ?craving for food what else can beat a nice halah combo platter with white sauce, bbq sauce for the price of 5 bucks
There's something urbanly mystical about rising out of the subway at 1AM to matter of factly queue up behind 20 hungry cognescenti at the city's most righteous food cart. ? The food here was, indeed, very good, an even better value, and I am pleased we found this late nite Yelper's paradise - yet I cant quite bring myself to confirm they're dishing out the manna from heaven touted by some disciples. ? ? The meats are splendidly seasoned and give off a heavenly aroma as you proceed past the cart, but I echo Jason P's observation that the minced chicken can be on the dry side, depending on how finely it's chopped, making the white sauce more of a necessary condiment than an option. The hellish red sauce is easily the hottest thing I've ever put into my mouth, and better suited to torturing infidels or cauterizing moles. Portions are generous and at $6-$7 an outstanding NYC value, but honestly, I can get a comparable curry chicken bowl here at Chen Wok in Phoenix for $4.50 that's just as satisfying. Cant get it at 2 in the morning, of course, but it's just as good, IMO. ? Is the Halal cart the best street food I've ever had? Yeah, I think so. I dont eat a lot of street food. It's very good and worth a go if you're in the neighborhood. Is it the best low priced food I've ever had? No, it really isnt, and newbies strolling by with celestial expectations should keep their feet firmly on the ground.
$6 bucks for chicken, steak, really damn good rice, lettuce, and all the white sauce you want in the middle of New York City? ?200+ reviews on Yelp? Yea, you need to go here.
The rice and lamb are incredible, the chicken is just so-so. ?Loved the spicy sauce and white sauce, deeeelicious.
i would prefer to give it 4.5 stars, yelp really needs to work on getting that half star rating going. i haven't been to new york in some time, so while i was there i tried to accomplish as many things possible. most of it didn't happen, however what did happen was the date that i went on. the guy was from eharmony.com (review on that site to come). i didn't care where we ate. so we walked around a few blocks in the vicinity of my hotel, just in case he ended up being a psycho i wanted the ability to throw a bum in his pathway & book it back to my room. obviously i'm not super fancy because i'm willing to eat food from a street vendor as dinner on a first date... cheap? i ?like to say i'm adventurous. so we walked the 10 blocks to arrive to a cart with a line?!? i'm not talking 5 people... it was a line like the day apple came out with their iphone - though without all the white nerdy people sitting in chairs/pitched tents playing magic. there wasn't a single person with a low melanin count - i was baffled. the options are short & concise & cheap. since you've been in line all the time, you should have made your decision by the time you get up to the front. i ordered the meal with lamb & chicken & rice. right after i turned away with meal in hand, a group of middle class white folk probably going to see some broadway show came up to me & asked if it was good. i replied, "i haven't tried it yet, care to try" then offered them some. they responded with a smirk & repulsed look with a response, "no we've already eaten." i guess they're germaphobes. i couldn't finish it, though i savored the meal the next morning as breakfast (still good the next day). the white sauce is a must, as the meat is a little bland solo. the hot sauce... it's spicy. it didn't make me cry, though it did make me say, "this is hot".
It's all about questionably sanitary cart food at 1 in the morning after 10 shots of soju. ?All you need is the rice (flavorful), chicken (so good), lamb (awesome), white sauce (gotta have it), red sauce (pretty spicy). ?All for less than $7. ?Nuff said.
soooo delicious! ?we were craving chicken/lamb mix with rice so much that we taxied there 9pm just to pick it up and go back home and eat it for dinner! ?its a great combo... lamb, chicken, rice, lettuce and the "white sauce" to mix in~! ? only $6 and worth every dollar. ?i usually can make 2 meals out of it.
Omfg best halal food ever, hands down, game over. Yes, I know the line is long. Suck it up and get in line. You'll be glad you did.
It is outstanding as everyone has said .. I shot some video when there a few weeks ago - qik.com/video/90780 The line moves quickly and it's well worth the time!
They didn't win the Vendy, but these cart guy's are like The Rock from WWF, they are the People's Champ. Everyone in NY seem to praise them like no other. The constant long lines only confirms their greatness. Supposedly, the sauces are their bragging rights to success, the hot sauce and special tasty white sauce as they say. I doused like a gallon of the white sauce on my combo plate and one tiny dallop of hot sauce but that shit kicks in. Mix it all together and you are in heaven. The chicken is decent but the real deal is the lamb. In addition, you get tons of food, I can't even finish it on one sitting which is almost unheard of. People say one can only truly appreciate this place is while intoxicated, and thus don't go at 2 AM unless you want to wait like an hour in the line of zombies.
Eh. It was okay. Having heard so much hype about this food, I decided to bypass the halal carts near me and make my way to midtown for the famous 53rd and 6th halal. I did my research ahead of time to make sure I got the right cart, and I decided to go to the daytime location on the SE side of the street. Despite the chicken looking kind of dry and bland, I ordered the chicken and rice platter. The guy put tons of white sauce and very little hot sauce, so I asked for extra hot sauce. He gave me a few containers of the white sauce and hot sauce. When I got home, I realized he had forgotten to put the bread in. I was a little disappoints but whatever. How can that matter when I was about to take a bite of heaven? So I took a big mouthful expecting to weep tears of joy. In fact, it was quite anti-climactic. The chicken was not dry, but it was not very flavorful. I had to add more hot sauce to make it somewhat interesting. I was also not excited by the boring pile of shredded lettuce that came with it. At least at other halal carts you can get some other veggies-- tomatoes, peppers, onions-- something to add character. Perhaps the cart did have them but it was another oversight by the guy helping me. Overall, I was not impressed. I prefer Rafiqui's. I am just going to assume that all the rave reviews were from people who went to the late night cart after hours of partying and who were to drunk to notice how unremarkable this cart's food is.
AMAZING! Unfortunately I think I'm going to be disappointed if I have Halal food anywhere else... The funny thing is we were traveling through nyc, and had awesome 5 star dinner at Daniel the night before, but equally enjoyed the Halal cart. (and Joe's pizza). There is a time and place for fine dinning, but halal food cart and joe's pizza i could do every week (if i lived in nyc).
It's simply the best...cheap and amazing food! ?I never thought I would enjoy food served from a cart..but this is a MUST TRY. ?No clue what that white sauce is but it is GOOD! ?Beware of the red sauce..take it easy because it's super spicy.
4 stars only because I couldn't even taste it! ?My brother neglected to inform me that the hot sauce was insanely hot. ?So thinking it was like all other hot sauces, I smothered my entire plate with it!! ?Okay, by far, this was the hottest thing I have ever tasted in my life!!! I would definitely rate it higher if I could have actually tasted it and was left with my lips intact! hahah ?Obviously this place is good, I was just a part of the unlucky hot sauce group.. :( ?On the other hand, the white sauce is freaking awesome!!
Here is my story. I went there at 1 am. I waited on the line. I was even verbally offended by some other drunk customers there (See, this is a crazy world). But I don't care as long as I got my platter. So what about the food? 4 stars for their chicken. ?But 5 stars for their secret white sauce. I mean it. Without the white sauce, there is nothing to excite about. The hot sauce is ridiculously hot, too. If you haven't tried it yet, remember their banner. "All the people of the world can be put into two categories: those who have had the platter, and those who have not."
You can read the other reviews for the food. ?I'm going to tell you how to eat it. ?No matter which plate you order, you get containers of both the white sauce, and the hot sauce. ? The hot sauce is REALLY hot, so what I do is pour half of the hot sauce into one of the white sauces, and mix with my fork until you get a nice pink consistency. ?Then I pour the entire contents over my lamb/rice plate, and voila! ?You're all set to chow down.
Dear God... please bring the Halal Cart to San Francisco!! The first time I got the gyro and that was really good but uber messy... The second time we went, my friend got the lamb/beef and rice dish... SO GOOD.. ?I wish I got more of it.. The lamb/beef has the perfect spiciness and the spot is easy to find, but there seemed to be two in the area, one busy and one dead.. not sure what the difference is.
ok...heard about this place from friends. Not sure it's worth waiting an hour for chicken and rice but it was tasty. I think it's a bit more hype that great food. For the price it's a 4star cheap eats. I would not go further and say it's the best eats my tongue has tasted. If i'm in the area and crave middle eastern food i'll wait the hour. I would not go out of my way just for this place. 4 stars is good considering...
so, i know there's like 394830 reviews for this place already. i decided to make my review a little more experimental. ENJOY. . ? ?. ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . microphone check... check check check... ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? *BEAT BOXIN* all you haters: take a look at my Christian Dior, laugh out loud, but you won't be smilin' anymore.... as i take a bite... of my Kronos delight, that hot sauce... will beat you in a fight. cool your tongue with the yogurt sauce, i get all this food- but with a satisfyin' cost. the Halal boys will get you delirious... they'll pop a cap in yo ASSparagus! talkin' smack? hey, jack... you's smokin' crack! that's a wiggity wiggity wiggity wiggity wack! some may say, they're a little superstitious. try the chicken combo, it's crazy delicious! i'll be yo #1 caller... if you'll 5-dolla-holla. kart, chart, part, art, Bart Simpson,*a-wiki-wiki*... Debbie Gibson! gimmie a scoop of that yum yum rice, the conditions are right... just like winning at dice. ? ? ? *CROSSES ARMS.... NODS HEAD* . ? ?. ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . ? ? . P.S. you know a place is a 5 when you start craving their food like crack. seriously. whenever it gets to about 4pm... my stomach starts grumbling and thoughts of the mouth-watering Chicken w/ Rice come into mind.
delicious. thats why theres always a line at 2am.
My first review and I chose to do it on one of the most simply complex and mystical finds of NYC which doesn't scream names of high-end chefs echoing through halls of million dollar decors amidst the A-List and Celebs...no, this is just your regular run of the mill cart that calls 53rd and 6th its home for so many years. ?Regular cart stand operation maybe but the food is far from regular and quite frankly with over 243 reviews as of today's date which still gives it up to par near 5 stars speaks volumes about this vendor. ? This isn't a romantic style of dining but this is great food after the lounges/clubs/dive bars and you want to get that "Chicken n Rice' fix. ?I've lived in NY for many years and this was something that people spoke about, ?even before making the move, as if it was food for the Gods. ?The lines late night says alot about how patient and willing people are willing to forgoe a few dollars and a long line with people from all over who maybe drunk, sober, high, or just HUNGRY at odd hours of the night. ?As soon as you get closer you'll hear the guy(s) working the vendor asking what you would like.. one would answer Lamb! another, Chicken, and another (like me) COMBO!!!! but make it SPICY!!!!! ? Yup, that's how I like it along with the many others. ?Now now... I know they say that everything taste almost better after a few drinks and late into the night but this food can be reheated and its just as good as the night you ordered it. ?I recommend eating it right then and there. ?We usually get our food and find a decent humble spot to devour the nan, rice, with freshly prepared and seasoned meats in a medley of cool and soothing spiced yogurt. ?Something about the mixture when it's all marinated and tossed together accentuates the taste buds only bugging you later into the week of how you long to get that 'Chicken n Rice' fix again. ?Many of my out of town guests would know about this establishment well in advance and make requests for me to take them there after the night was near ends. ?They never regretted it. ?Aside from the drunks in line it's not as bad to wait in line. ?They do a decent job of moving people on their way to eat around the area by the building or for those who are looking to hail a cab and just savor it on their ride back home. ? For others it grew on them. ?I don't know if they add addictive ingredients in there other than the tasty, juicy, meats but I do know I've heard a few of my friends leave the place saying "It's OK!!! Whats the hype all about?" only to tell me randomly that they have an urge for some odd reason to appease their taste buds and do it again. ? Needless to say they are veterans to the stand now. ? Don't be afraid!!! Go!. ?Try it if you are ever in the city visiting. ?Why not? ?You're out there anyways might as well try something that isn't heavily documented and commercialized on Food Network and Travel Channel yet. ?Get in there and be apart of NYC history!
I stayed at the Hilton right across the street while I was in Manahattan and ate at this cart twice. ?Really good food when you're on the go and hungry. ?After reading horror stories from fellow Yelpers I decided to forego the hot sauce and stuck with the white sauce. ?The line never took more than 10 minutes each of the times I went, but people were lined up down the street eating the stuff. ?It's in a really busy part of the city and it's a really good option for quick, hot food while you're seeing the sights or going to Radio City Music Hall, Rockefellar Center, or Central Park. ?I definitely recommend.
After living in Boston, where the only grub available after hours is at sit down restaurants in Chinatown, visiting the Halal Cart in NYC topped my list of reasons to move here (oh, you think I'm being facetious---nooope). Check it out at the end of the night and make sure you pee at the bar before you get here as there will inevitably be a long line. I suggest topping your wonderfully-valued meal with both red sauce and tahini sauce for optimum flavor. This is the formula for going to sleep well-fed and happy. Long live Chicken & Rice.
Around 8pm there were about 30 people in line. 15 minutes later when I got my food there were about 50. I got the lamb and chicken with rice. The meat was delicious, specifically the lamb. The rice, however, was not so delicious. It didn't have much flavor and wasn't very soft. Also the price isn't much of a deal. $6 for less food than the cart at 40th and 7th for $4.50. I guess would go back again if I were walking by and there was a line of less than 5 people, but it is not worth the wait. And the red sauce is incredibly hot and the white sauce was quite watery.
Freaking good. I'm not a New Yorker but I could move there just for this stuff. 'nuff said about this one b/c I'd just be repeating everyone else's praises!
I have waited in long lines in the freezing cold for the mixed plate - lamb, chicken, rice, no salad, hot sauce, white sauce. ?This is a heavy meal that can easily accommodate two or...save it for the next day. The rice is really greasy, but in a good way. You wont notice as you are shoveling this meal into your face as fast as you can, amazed that something this tasty can be bought at a street cart. ?Keep in mind hot sauce is really hot! So maybe get a little hot sauce and a lot of white sauce. This is so good that my cousin actually wants them to cater a party of hers...hahah
You know what? I'm not even going to bother to write a proper review everyone has repeated what I am about to say. To keep things short, this place this damn good and damn deceiving. You see fifty people ahead of you? Don't worry, it'll only be five minutes. You wonder how and where the vendor gets its food? It is the result witchcraft and magic. Is it clean or sanitary? You're probably drunk/high and you don't care anyway. For all those people wondering if they should go get some? Go get some. Wait on line, know what you're getting, have your money out, get your food and get the hell out of their way; they have a job to do. Is it the best food you will ever have? Probably not. Is it even good food? Nope, far from it. But the simple fact is no other place is open until 5 AM and serves piping hot food to a large crowd. Advice? Easy on the hot sauce (people always make that mistake the first time) and never go easy on the white sauce. And watch your car, unless of course you want $115 ticket on your windshield, courtesy of the NYPD (Jersey people will never learn).
I ate at this cart on Saturday morning at about 2am (9/20/08). ?My wife and I had been waiting for weeks to get to NYC to try this place and I must say although we were starving and drunk (thinking we would be prepared for something great, this cart could not stand up to the hype. The mystery white sauce that everyone speaks of is simply jacked up mayo (officially called "Admiration Mayonnaise" as evidenced by the 5 gallon buckets stacked alongside the cart). We all had meals, 2 combos and one lamb. The lamb was really tasty but I would prefer it in a sandwich, the chicken left much to be desired, the red sauce was spicy (really spicy) but left no lingering heat so it was actually quite good. ?The rice was yummy too. Between myself, my wife and my friend who joined us, we all agreed that we would be hard pressed to find a cart that offered food that tasted worse than what we ate from here. Not that it was bad, it was just not any better than good is all.
After I was done at the MOMA, I was starving and knew that this cart was somewhere nearby. ?I walked up 54th and saw it on 53rd, across from the Hilton. ?Luckily, the line was really short. ?I had the chicken pita with the red and white sauces. ?The white sauce was good but the red sauce was fantastic, spicy and tangy. ?I wish I had asked for extra. ?It was quite large and only $4. ? Next time, I'm getting the chicken over rice with extra red sauce. ?I may run over there now. ?Man, I'm going to miss carts like this back in SF.
The 53rd & 6th Halal Cart hands down wins the best cart in NY and dare I say on the entire eastern seaboard. I have been frequenting this purveyor of deliciously mindblowing food for the last 5 years. During the times I lived away from New York, I would regularly make a pilgrimage to the Cart each time I returned. The lamb and rice is may favorite, paired with their amazing white sauce and a few drops of the hot sauce (use with caution). The portions are amazing and makes it the best late night meal you can get for under $6 in NYC. The only thing I can't believe is how long it took me to post my two cents about this place. So please go to the 53rd & 6th Halal Cart... you owe it to yourself!
best after drinking and sober food cart in the city. ?after a night at the bars we stopped at a hot dog cart to try some NYC dogs. disgusting. come to chicago and try a real hot dog that isn't pale and skinny and gross. ?anyways, since we were getting picked up at the hilton, and were still hungry from the nasty hot dog, we grabbed some lamb platters and indulged. wish they had carts like this in chicago. had another platter the next day (half chicken/half lamb with white and hot sauce) and it was still delicious. if they are filling orders like "10 platters to go" that is a good sign. will make a point to visit this cart again next time i'm in NY.
The last time we were in New York City, I stayed in the hotel and the hubster was kind enough to get me my most favorite meal in the world, a lamb plate with rice, no salad, extra white and extra hot sauce. ?He walked 30 blocks in the New York cold to bring this delicious meal back for his beloved. ?Granted, he made a tourist walk of it, checking out Times Square, stopping for a slice of cheese pizza, a Pepsi, and a Gray's Papaya smoothie along the way. ?And granted, he may not do it again. ?But really, who needs diamonds and flowers when you got a man who is willing to get you food from the halal food cart? Some general tips: 1) ?Get there early because this place always has a long line and you'll just get super hungry and cranky, waiting and smelling the lovely aroma. ?The only time I've seen this cart have fewer than 10 people in line is when it was pouring rain! ? 2) ?This place is only open at night and the cart there during the day is an imposter (albeit, a pretty tasty one). ? 3) ?If you like pita bread, ask for an extra one. ?Sometimes they'll charge you an extra $1 and sometimes, they'll just throw a few extra pieces in your container for free. ? 4) ?Feel free to comment about how this food cart brings people from all walks of life together in a beautiful mosaic reflective of the multicultural nature of United States society. ?Seriously, I've seen everyone from Wall Street types in suits to local boys from the 'hood to church grandmas to clubbin' girls with short skirts and tall boots standing in the same line :)
The lamb is unreal, the chicken sucked. ?Well worth the wait. ?Best meal you can get for $4.
Maybe I'm just not a big halal person, but I thought this food was good and nothing more. ?Certainly enjoyed it, but didn't blow my mind. ?For $5, though, the chicken and rice is a fine deal, especially in the hustle and bustle of the Avenue of the Americas. ?The red sauce is super spicy, which I love. ?Beware if you have a sensitive tongue. As street fare goes, you could do a lot worse. ?I imagine this place is EXCELLENT drunk food, but I haven't had a chance to test that theory.
Halal carts have taken over NYC. ?What happened to all the hot dog vendors? ?Are they now halal vendors? ? Some of the other halal carts have spits and they carve the meat off for you. ?This famous 53rd & 6th cart doesn't have that and the price seems to be $1 more than other carts. ?It's still a good value though, because you get plenty of food. ?The line for the 53rd & 6th cart seemed to be the longest and they even have a website (and four or five employees manning the cart). ?It's funny to see people parked in their cars right by the cart, digging in to those aluminum take out containers they use. ? The menu is simple: rice, meat & salad, $6; pita, meat & salad $5; sandwich, $4. ?They have chicken and lamb/beef. ?Customize with white sauce, BBQ sauce and/or hot sauce. ? * Meat: ?I liked the chicken better than the lamb and beef. ?The lamb and beef are chopped up too finely to the point that they seem like ground meat. ? * Rice vs. Pita: ?The long grain rice is decent but the fresh, soft pita is better. ?That's why I recommend the pita, meat & salad option (or the sandwich) over the rice, meat & salad option. However, if you're hungry, choose the rice. ?Special tip: ?If you like their pita, you can buy the same brand, Kontos, at SF Safeway stores (or maybe outside of SF too - I don't know). * Salad: The salad isn't really salad - it's just chopped iceberg lettuce but it adds a nice crunch to the plate of food. ? * Sauces: The white sauce is thicker than I'd like and also a bit bland (though it is tangy). ?The hot sauce is much better as it packs a punch. ?Mix it with the white yogurt like sauce to liven things up. ? They keep the sauces on the side in squeeze bottles, so you can add more if you want (they do tuck in white sauce and hot sauce in your bag). ?Regulars ask for extra sauce, extra meat, etc. ?I'm not sure how they price that. ?For some reason this type of food really hits the spot late at night. ? Cash only. ?Open from 7:30 PM - 4 AM.
I thought I check out what's all the rave about this halal cart after reading all the great reviews, including yelp. ?And I was willing to wait in line in the cold if I got there early before it opens since I was an out of towner. I got there around 7 pm, about half an hour before it opens. ?I was about the 7th person in line. ?As I waited, some people in front of me left the line after talking with the cart guys. ?I couldn't hear what they were saying, seemed like they couldn't wait and decided to go across the street to another cart. ?Before I knew it, I was the 2nd person in line. ?For a second I thought I was in the wrong line for the real halal cart. ?But as it reached 7:30 pm the line grew longer. ?By the way, the real cart is on the SW corner of 53rd and 6th, you can see the blue Hilton sign if you turn your head left while waiting in line. After about 40 minutes of waiting, I finally got the food. ?I got the chicken/lamb and rice. ?It was really good especially with the white sauce. ?For me, it tasted like a combination of a gyro and chicken biryani. ?It was only six dollars and it filled me up. ?I'd do it again, though not in 20 degree weather!
Finally went to try this place after some late night drinking. ?Line wasn't long, I got the combination on rice and pita bread for only $6. ?I put on some white sauce, some BBQ sauce, and literally only a few drops of their infamous hot sauce. ?I knew better cause I read and heard so much about their hot sauce, so figured I should go light for the first time. Mixed it all up together and started chowing it down. ?Oh boy! ?With no exaggeration, my tongue felt like it's burning, and tears started coming outta my eyes. ?Yet, it was sooooooo good and I couldn't stop putting more in my mouth. ?Both the chicken and gyro are really tasty; their rice is smaller and a little drier than the other halal carts. ?Along with the lettuce and pita bread, all go very well together. ?That's the best halal food I've tried!
Good place to get chicken and rice at 3AM in the morning. ?Sometimes, when the day is that packed, I choose the Halal Cart as my last meeting place of the day. It works out pretty well. ?The red sauce is really spicy and sometimes it's hard to find a good corner to sit on while you eat.
Initially we thought people were crazy for waiting at 10:00pm on a Saturday night to get street cart ?food. ?The minute we got our food, we had to find a place to sit as this is street food so there wasn't any indoor seating. ?Still a little skeptical as we sat down to eat, our minds quickly changed after we tried this amazing dish. ?Now all I can think about is the next I'm in NYC and waiting in line to get the chicken and rice dish again.
I am about to tell you the biggest secret about this place...there's MORE THAN 1 CART!!! In fact, there are 3 (THREE) carts that I'm aware of. That's right, 3!!! I've been eating from these guys (fans typically just refer to them as chicken and rice) for years. I have weathered and braved the long line many a time, so I know the torture of standing for an hour as well as the ecstasy when you finally sink your teeth into the delicious morsels as the hot sauce burns half your mouth off. About a year ago, I noticed that the cart across the street (SE corner) has the exact same umbrella, guys with the exact same aprons, putting their food in the exact same yellow plastic bags. Since very few people know about this, there is usually NO LINE and I get to eat my food whenever I want. Then just last night, I was walking to 8th ave. after getting 2 orders to go when I was stopped by this cart on 53rd and 7th. He noticed my yellow bag and said that he is the same people. Feeling skeptical, I glanced at the usual giveaway signs. Sure enough, everything had the same decoration and logo, "www.halalguys.com" Well, if I don't get shot for disclosing this top secret, I hope you never have to wait for your chicken and rice again. Here are the 3 locations (that i know of): 1. SW corner 53rd/6th **this has the crazy long line** 2. SE corner 53rd/6th ?**you can laugh at the dummies standing in line across the street while you eat yours 3. SW corner 53rd/7th **just discovered last night** Happy eating. Hope this helps:-) p.s. this is my fav chicken and rice and the only reason i did not give 5 stars is that they no longer have the lamb hanging and shave it off as you order. they now mass produce everything and it comes pre-shaved in trays. Minus 1 star for losing authenticity
Best five dollars I've spent in Manhattan. ?I had the mixed special which included beef, lamb, rice, veggies, and pita bread. I'm so lucky -- my office is just one block away from this cart.
Wifey and I come back here everytime we're in NY. The food is still exceptional, but don't take our words for it. ?Here are two recent endorsements from total strangers during our many visits: 1) Persian family (mom, dad, 2 daughters) waiting in line with us. ?The 2 daughters get sick of waiting and ask daddy if they can go down the block to a less busy Halal cart. ?Dad gives 'em both the evil eye and a stern dressing-down. ?He tells them both, "We stay here!! ?Dis is best food!!" ?I half thought he would bitch-slap his own daughters for the blasphemy they uttered. 2) Caught a cab to Union square yesterday. ?Chatted with the cabbie who was an affable fellow and just happened to be Egyptian. ?I asked him what he thought about the 53rd and 6th Halal cart. ?He looked me straight in the eye (while still racing down Park avenue at 50mph) and said in a serious tone, "their food... better than any restaurant!" 'Nuff said...
Yelp has made the food cart famous. ?Yelp and location. ?In a midtown wasteland where no food establishments are open for the I-have-no-life-except-my-job, get out at midnight office folk, Halal is a Godsend. ?I have never seen a line for a food cart like Halal's. ?It's ridiculous. ?I went there at 12 midnight on a Wednesday morn and the line was as long as the crack in the Liberty Bell. ? The food is tasty, I'll give it that, and the white sauce is delicious. ?I'd like the chicken sandwich better if they wouldn't pile on so much chicken. ?I end up with half of it down my shirt anyway. ?If I were a midnight office drone, this would be my dinner destination. ?But I really don't see the point of going out of your way for it. ?It's not all that. ?Yeah, I said it. ?And what?
Good gyros. I preferred the chicken personally. The back of the tongue hot sauce combined with the vinegary based yoghurty white sauce make for an explosively tasty combination when added to the deliciously sizziling mystery meat. Is it lamb and what else ??? What a delectable combination. I visit NY from LA quite often and I love the street carts.If I could I would live on them my entire trip but I need to be kind to my arteries and other organs that would take a beating every time I go (you health people will know what I mean). ?Anyway, this cart ?is pretty good and is comparable to the one I frequent which is 49th and 6th. A couple of blocks south. They are pretty much the same. However, they are incredulously good compared with anything we have in LA...... I f these guys come to LA they could charge double at any one of the gazillion farmers markets and people would still line up. The price points for these places are fabulicious.
I tried the pizza, bagels, delis in NYC and this cart was my favorite meal. ?I had to come back on my last night to get it again. ?I tried the mixed platter the first time and found that I liked the lamb better so returned for the lamb platter on the second night. The wait was about 30 minutes in the freezing cold. ?It comes with two packets of white sauce and one small hot sauce. ?I mixed it all in for a good sauce to meat and rice ratio. ?I wish there was one in my town. ? There's another cart trying to copy this one - not sure if it is as good but I'm guessing not since the line here was way longer than the other one. ?The real deal is on the southwest corner.
I'm just sad I didn't bring my tupperware to store it all to take back to San Francisco. I stayed at the Sheraton right next to the cart, and sadly I only ate their once. Yeah, I admit it, I wasn't sober when I picked up my food here. But goddammit, it was still damn good. While walking back to my hotel, I dropped my fork on the ground. But I still ended up finishing my chicken and rice... with my hands
I went. I waited. I ordered. I paid. I conquered. Or, did the lamb-chicken combo w/ rice (and white sauce!) conquer me? I ponder.
Best cart food out there! There's actually two carts! The one across 6th ave is the same and usually has a shorter line usually. Cheap and consistently delicious this place is a must! I like getting the mix platter (chicken and lamb) and I love that the sauce come on the side now.
Delicious, filling, and spicccyyyy. What else do you need? Midtown is a desolate and pitiful place to be if you want some good food, but the Cart will always satifsy. Everytime people visit from out of town, I make a big deal of having them try the combo, and it's never failed. Chicken and rice, Combo (chicken and lamb) and rice, or falafel and rice are ALL SO GOOD! And apparently not a lot of people know that there is a cart across 6th ave, at the corner of the CBS building during the day run by the same family. It's exactly the same! I've asked the real cart about the one across the street, and it's not a fraud, like many other places. So when you're craving cart food, and you know that the one on the southwest corner of 53rd and 6th has an outrageous line, go to the one on the southeast corner for a fraction of the wait!
The best roach coach ever!!! ?We walked by this halal cart and I was not going to stop since I had not eaten out of a coach in about 20 years. However, the smell that came from the coach was amazing! As a cook myself I knew this was going to be good food. The coach was very clean and that was a big plus. We had a lamb gyro and from that point on we were hooked! They put a spicey secret sauce that makes a difference. We had a lamb gyro every afternoon during our visit to NYC. The one we went too is located on 52nd and 6th street directly across the steet south of the Hilton Hotel. There will be two Halal carts the one we went to is at the corner of 52nd st and has Halal written in green. The other ?halal cart is kitty corner from this one on 6th st and the writing on the cart is in red - this one is not good at all.
well. i don't know what else to say so i'll say it again. well. there have been over a hundred reviews by people extremely excited about this cart. to me it sounds more like a cult than an eating experience. on second thought, it sounds EXACTLY like a cult, in that the story is not the cart, it's the belief in the cart. and so the tale begins... i went there the other night for the first time. i've been eating cart food, "street chicken," for more than 10 years. occasionally i've hit a bad spot with greasy runnyfat chicken, wilted lettuce, tomatoes less than red and so on. but for the most part, no matter the neighborhood, it's always been easy to find really good carts. except around wall st, apparently, it's not that hard. there was one on 5th avenue and 20th street, one at park avenue and 53rd street, one on 55th street at 6th avenue where i ate for years and loved it. etc. etc. when i joined yelp i started reading about the "famous" cart at 53rd and 6th, only at night, lines as long as the great wazoo, drunk parties and food orgasms at 3am, i figured, ok, next time i'm in midtown in the middle of the night (why, i asked myself, would i ever be in midtown at that hour?), i'll check it out. might even make a special occasion out of it -- once it warms up, of course. i mean, who in their right mind would ever stand on line in the freezing cold at 3am for cart food? not a new yorker, that's for sure. ok, it finally happened two days ago. first, there are actually TWO carts there on 53rd street, one on either side of 6th avenue. i must have walked back and forth across the avenue three times checking out the grills and the sauces, sizing up the guys, trying to determine which was the "famous" one and which was the pretender, because i really didn't want to blow it. but i couldn't figure it out -- they looked about the same. i chose the one on the east side, guessing the one nearer to moma was "the one," and asked the guy, "are you those famous guys?" and he said "yes." so i said, "what about that one over there?" and he said, "the same, the same, same thing." so it looks like because of the yelp thing, we have a little franchise going. i got chicken on pita, white sauce, red sauce, paid the $4 and ran it home. set it up on the table with the requisite thousand napkins because i don't know how anybody else does it, but with me it drips all over your hands and down your sleeve so i'm eating and wiping and eating and wiping, trying not to spill it on my clothes or the floor. anyhow, i devoured it because it was good. in fact, it tasted just like.....cart food. honestly, by the time i was done, which took about two minutes, i had completely forgotten that it came from the "famous" 53rd street halal cart. it was just cart food, it was good, i ate it, and it wasn't until an hour later that i suddenly remembered, hey, that was from the famous 53rd street cart. i wondered how that very important fact could have slipped my mind, and realized it was because it tasted pretty much like every other good cart food i've ever had, which is not a bad thing. in fact, it's a good thing. it's just not an unbelievably great thing. thus the cult concept. it's a scene, a thing to get excited about. we need things to get excited about. just like we need a constant cultural scapegoat and a constant celebrity crash and burn and a constant war. the faces change but the words never change. halal 53 is cart food for people who don't eat cart food, cart food for people who are maybe afraid of cart food, afraid of rats, poison, rancidity, hepatitis, gangrene, rot, who knows. i don't, i'm just speculating...and rambling... right. this is one helluva long review for a two minute meal forgotten as soon as it's over. but before i go, i should mention that there is a fair amount of cayenne in the red sauce so it can be pretty hot by new york standards. then again, the same can be said of every other cart food i've ever had. regardless, californians, koreans and hunan lovers should have no problem. so if it's 3am and freezing and you're drunk and starving and in midtown and the line is all the way up to the sky, take my advice and find another cart. pretty much any one will do.
Chicken and Rice Plate...this is real serious...these dudes are making money...there is always a serious line like they are giving out cheese ?at like 4am...its insane...the after the club spot for sure...some people call it street meat...I learned about it years ago from other NYU people then it became serious...now my youngest brother goes there...he skips the line...people spazz out and once he was even given a stern warning by the police...so wait in line and hey, you will be happy...
I'm a sucker for good food. I will move mountains to eat something delicious. And I'm crazy enough to give a food stand/cart in the middle of NYC 5 stars, without hesitation. - I will opt out of earning Starwood points in NYC to stay at the NY Hilton at 53rd and Ave of the Americas ?to have easy access to this stand. - I will pay the change fee, change flights and switch to the NY Hilton from another hotel to eat at this stand ONE MORE TIME. - I'm losing status at Starwood and unintentionally becoming ?the best HHonors member because of this stand. - I am inclined to pick a $6 meal here than to take up a generous dinner date offer at Peter Luger's or Jean-Georges, which makes me the cheapest date EVER, even if you include the $2 bottle of water you'd have to buy me from the stand right next to it. - If I do opt to have a regular dinner somewhere on any given night during my frequent NYC visits - - ?then I will ALWAYS stay out late enough (read: until I have digested dinner enough) to stand in a mega-line here at 3 AM to have me some of this food. - No matter what kind of pain I experience throughout the night and the next half-day on account of the spiciness of this food, the quality of this food, or the crazy hour at which I ate this food - - I will crave it again the very next morning. - Even if I have only once finished the entire plate in one sitting - - I will NOT share my $6 plate of food with anyone. ?I might give you a bite, but be forewarned: ?you should NOT look at me, while in line, and ask me: "I'm not hungry, you want to just share one order?" ?NOT a good idea. This is. by far, the best $6 meal in existence, that I know of. Alright, so an In N Out Double Double comes damn close for an amazing and cheap meal, but come on - ?that's a burger. ?This is a MEAL. Don't ask for chicken. Don't ask for beef. When it's finally your turn, you walk up and they will blurt out, "What you want?" You answer: ?"Lamb. ?Extra hot sauce." About 12 seconds later, they hand you a yellow plastic bag, you take it - go up to your hotel room or find a seat nearby - ?and open up the madness, admire the piping hot lamb, rice, salad and pita slices, pour on the white yogurt/ranch sauce, pour on the hot sauce (as much as you can possibly handle), mix it ALLLLLLLL up, and you chomp away with your plastic fork. ?DEVOUR. That's how you do it. No variation, do it in that order. Warning: ?This particular stand doesn't seem to be there until late afternoon or so. ?There are several other stands nearby - - but NONE are of this quality. ?All are good, but NONE are THIS good. ?Go at night, and you'll easily find this one. ?It's the one with the line down the WHOLE ENTIRE STREET with taxicabs, police cars, and other city vehicles all parked alongside it to #1: pick up the drunk fools eating here, or #2: they are ordering also. Really - ?no joke. ? It's that F****** fabulous.
This is the summit, the absolute zenith of street food! The Combo Plate with Red and White Sauce has blown my mind on more than one occasion, it's so good you run the risk of having an out-of-body experience. I'm not joking. A true story - the first time I went here, I didn't know what to get and the guy in front of me in line, perhaps noticing the tentative look on my face, so out of place amidst the giddy look of expectation on the faces of everyone else in the line, asked "your first time?" I nodded and he replied "Get the Combo Plate, my friend, red and white sauce. You'll be back tomorrow." He was right. I WAS back the very next night, in line with perhaps 50 other people, lined up at 11 pm on a cold fall night for the combo plate. What is IN that sauce? Another Halal anecdote. It was January, around 1 AM, I lived on 55th and 9th and walked here without gloves or a hat in freezing weather. By the time I got in line, my hands were frozen, but when I finally got the combo plate I ate it right there in the street. That night, the combo plate was literally so good that as I walked away, down 53rd back to 9th ave, I actually yelled "Yes!" after a few bites of that amazingly delicious yellow rice, salad, red sauce, white sauce and halal chicken and lamb. ? These guys are as much a landmark of New York as the Empire State Building. Long may they reign.
I heard this was the best Halal Cart in the city, so I cabbed all the way from downtown just to check it out. ?Unfortunately, I was dressed like a foolish San Franciscan and was not prepared for the Winter day. Had it not been 30 degrees outside, I may have enjoyed my Lamb/ Chicken Rice plate a little more. ?I was a little more pre-occupied on working my yoga breathing technique to regulate body temperature while scarfing down the lamb/ chicken plate before the frigid air cooled my meal. I'd like to try again on a warmer day so I could eat slower and actually taste my food more.
Ohhhhh...So that's what a heart attack feels like. Finally got 53rd and 6th Halal for the very first time yesterday afternoon because I had to return something at Niketown nearby. I instantly got food coma right after taking my last bite of Chicken Over Rice w/ Hot Sauce and White Sauce. Geez, is that yellow rice legal? That shit was the devil with the wonderful grease and buttery taste. I'mma call you "Damien Rice". Yeah, you're related to Satan.
Awesome rice, cheap, avoid the hot sauce Just got chicken/lamb rice platter today for $5. The best basmati rice (i think its basmati) from a cart I ever had. They also had pieces of bread and a fried potato ball (not sure what the heck it was, but it was good!). Just avoid the red sauce (burning hot!). I down 1/2 a bottle of tea and my tongue was still on fire! I ended up only finishing 80% of and left all the meat and rice that was "infected" w/ the hot sauce. Damn, so wanted to finish it too...
Definitely a must try for out-of-towners. Even it's just to wait in the ridiculously long 40 person line for street meat. The meat is juicy and has a tasty flavor that no other halal stand can match. *Note: beware of the hot sauce. I do love my Kimchi and can handle a high level of spicy heat but that sauce is out of control! I had to finish my meal with a quart of milk after I poured just a tablespoon of their hot sauce over my dish.
I love this cart!! we stayed at the Sheraton which was literally yards away from this corner and we ate there twice in our 3 day stay in NYC. ?Remember to add the red hot sauce in SMALL PORTIONS, and to ask for the chicken & rice TO GO. ?They give you more sauce and they also put the top on for you, so the food doesn't get as cold. ?It's also the best when you eat it right away, so don't try saving it cuz it won't be exactly the same thing. Honestly when I was eating it, I was like "this is pretty good" but later back in CA, I started craving it more & more! ?YUM YUM YUM
I'll put it like this. I used to work across the street from the cart (remember, during the day they're on the SE corner of 53rd and 6th, at night they're across the street in front of 1301 6th Ave.) and got lunch there once a week, religiously (can't do anymore as I'm sure my lifespan will be even shorter). Now, I work about 10 blocks south. There are still plenty of carts and I've tried just about all of them within the 2-block radius of my office, and they just don't measure up. I still make the trek up to the cart whenever I can, and chalk off my 20-block round trip walk as "exercise" so I won't feel guilty eating this!
Cheap and quick, and a really friendly guy running it.
ok pay attention: 1) dont waste your money/taste buds/stomach space on the chicken. ?go with the lamb. ?chicken isnt bad, but come on theres no comparison. 2) as other postings have duly noted, the SE corner stand is the exact same thing. ?same food, same sauce, same packaging.....same everything. 3) careful, the red sauce is hot.
So I finally visited the chicken & rice cart on 53rd and 6th Avenue last week. The line was, of course, ridiculously long, but my friends and I were chatting so we didn't mind. And it was definitely worth it. Now, I don't know if it can compare to my favorite chicken & rice cart (located in Astoria, Broadway stop, right by the C-Town) but the lamb was well-seasoned and greasily delicious. The rice was a fine complement to the lamb without overshadowing the meat, and the white sauce enhanced all the flavors. The pita was wonderful. I always wonder how it is they manage to get them so they are a little crisp on the outside and so soft on the inside. Perhaps I need a grill. In any case, well worth the money.
I like to drink. And when i'm done drinking around 3am there aren't a lot of restaurant choices available. This cart stays open every day to at least 4am. i usually get a "lamb and rice" and a "chicken sandwich", ten bucks. I shouldn't have to explain how good this grub is considering I spend $20 on the cab ride(s) and only $10 on the food... If you stop by this cart on a Fri or Sat night, they are usually open till 5am or even 5:30am, depending on the line/crowd. To avoid the 30/45 ?min line try to go after 4am. ?By 4am+ the bridge/tunnel folk are already banged up and on their way home.. The drawback to this cart is that at times they let people "cut in line". After a night of drinking with friends, a 10 min cab ride and 25 min standing in line, the last thing you want to see is people cut in front of you. These people are ALWAYS indian, packy, Bengali or American black 'pretending rapper' or 'gangster'...worth a laugh. ? If you can get your lamb/chicken fix here without a line or the nonsense, you'll do great...
I realize this cart serves an important service for the drunk and hungry, but I wasn't blown away. Savory and filling, pretty par for course as far as midtown carts go.
Dear Halal Cart, I didn't come with many expectations. It was a cold day and I just wanted to get out of the cold. I stood in a relatively short line, and with my friend we didn't know what to order. We ended up one of us with the Sandwich $4 and Bowl $6. We quickly ran to find some warmth and cover and proceeded to chowdown. Wow, this food is amazing, definitely a highlight of the trip. What do you do to that rice to make it so flavorful?! The chicken and drenched in your sauces is just oh so good. I'll be back, Ed
It was a great bite to eat to end the night. ?I wouldn't to so far as to say that it was the best ever, but it was right about the same taste consistency of most decent medditeranian food. ?Their yogurt sauce was good but the red-hot sauce is extremely hot. ?This is a good choice if you're out late and don't want to deal with a full restaurant experience. ?If a hot dog was on your menu, then go for this instead for a little more sustanance. ?You have a choice of beef (lamb) or chicken or both over a bed of tastey yellow rice with some pita slices (wish they have more). ?Eat on the sidewalk or tie away...but beware the potential line buildup around 10pm.
We need one in L.A.~!
I'm from out of town, and of course, use my iphone for everything including Yelp a thousand times a day. ?Came upon this place, and given the hundreds of reviews, I had to try it. ?I was meeting with a colleague from Atlanta, and suggested we at least split the meal (had already eaten a monstrous dinner.) ?Needless to say, it was unbelievable. White sauce and lamb rock. Hot sauce hotter than Tabasco!
THE DEVIL'S HOT SAUCE Yea I said it the Hot Sauce is so damn hot its made from the fiery pits of hell. It's the hottest Hot Sauce I have ever endured. You will definitely need something cold to drink. Visited to NY with the homies and was recommended to come here to eat the infamous chicken and rice after celebrating the nightlife of enbriation. Low and behold I didn't know I was getting set up for humiliation. What a great joke to put on someone because once your drunk you'll basically eat anything. Other than that the white sauce is dee-lish I would never again try the hot sauce because seriously it is nothing to mess with. Come to think of it I give props to anyone who can widthstand the hot sauce on a daily basis. Tip for thought: Worth the $6 but be prepared to wait in line but no worries it goes by quick If im back visiting the big apple mos definitely you'll find me at 53rd and 6th Halal cart for some chicken and rice minus the hot sauce =) Peace Yelp Heads!
I did my research before coming here. Yellow bags- check, SW corner of 53rd street after 8pm - check, line of people- check. They've mastered the assembly line process well because I had my chicken over rice within 10 minutes. The sauce is self-service so I doused it in white sauce and a little too much hot sauce. Here's a bit of advice, don't try to be macho by putting too much hot sauce cause you will end up tearing up and running to the nearest cart for something cold to cool down your taste buds. I will definitely add this place to my roster of late night affordable eats.
Just arrived in New York and immediately went to Halal guys. ?The line was huge as usual. ?I can't take the hot sauce and haven't meet anyone have can. ?Make sure you get their "tasty white sauce". While standing in line I've had four different people visiting NY for the first time. ?They wanted to know of the food was really that good, as they pointed to 3 other food carts with no lines. ?They just couldn't believe 50-60 people would wait in line to buy food from a food cart. ?I then showed them the reviews on Yelp. ?Most of restaurants in NY on Yelp have 5-30 reviews. ?Hala guys on Yelp have almost 600.
Like everyone else, I had to check this place out after all the rave reviews. ?Not sure that I understand the fanaticism, but it is good meat and rice. We got two platters with chicken, lamb, rice, and salad. ?The rice and lamb were pretty good but the chicken was really dried out. ?When we went, they just left a big pile of chicken on the grill and I guess they weren't moving it fast enough. ?I might give the chicken another chance during a busier time but in the meantime, I'll stick with the lamb and rice. ?I really like the white sauce and make sure to give the hot sauce a try. ?The salad was meh. It's a food cart. ?There's not much to comment on regarding service and decor. ?I wouldn't go out of my way to come to this place and it's definitely not worth the wait if the line is down the block. ?If you're in the area, check it out.
I consulted Yelp before trying out a Halal cart when I first moved here. I didn't really know what to get. After reading reviews I chose this cart because it was a couple of blocks from where I work and was reviewed the best. I was actually interested to see what all the cult-like raves were about. The lamb and rice is delicious and I've never ordered anything else. This is the perfect lunch for a hangover or tight budget. Huge full meal. I couldn't finish mine today! A few weeks ago, I got lazy and tried the one on 55th street because it was a tad closer. BAD NEWS BEARS. The lamb was dry, they never load on the white sauce to my liking even when I dramatically tell them I want a TON. The portions were smaller too. It's enough of a difference that you'd be crazy to not walk to extra two blocks for the real deal on 53rd. I try to get there before noon or after 1 to avoid the crazy lines.
We went there a bit after 1 pm on a weekday. There was a line but it moved pretty fast. Bought: 2 Lamb Gyro's 2 Poland Spring bottled water Total: $10 The gyro's were perfect, enough for a meal on the go. Filling without making you feel as if you've done something horribly wrong to your arteries. As someone else noted, beware of the hot sauce. Make sure you tell them to put just a little hot sauce otherwise you wont taste the food b/c you've irradiated your taste buds.
I'm a recent devotee of Halal cart's and was eager to try this one when I heard about it. I was definitely not disappointed, excellent food, large portions, hot sauce that is actually hot, what's not to love?
Really really good, but, in a taste test, I would have to say the daytime cart that sets up on the same spot is better.
I'm definitely a fan of this place. ?The food/service/cooks were great - even though it was raining these guys were still lively and keeping everyone in a good mood. ?The amount and quality of food was pretty darn awesome for $6 bucks. ?If you're not big on spicy foods, don't ask for red sauce it's pretty damn spicy. ?I usually like spicy foods, but this was a little too much for me to handle. ?I had the chicken and rice place, but their chicken gyro looked good too. ?Can't go wrong with this place......
Build it and they will come. It just takes a handful of people to tag a place as "the best place for _____________" and a cult following grows. Don't get me wrong, I eat here, and enjoy it. This place is alright, its good, but loses half a point for hype. I've known about this place for about 5 years. The perks, they are open almost ALWAYS, at almost ALL HOURS. The long lines keeps the food fresh. Fantastic location. Convenient. The downside, the long lines. The conveyor belt like service - I mean I don't want Henry Ford serving my food. The food is good. Not amazing. Better halal is available at a few locations, with the 'King of Falafel and Shawarma' in Astoria being among them. Also the hot sauce is dangerous. I usually ask places to make my food extra spicy. But the sauce they have makes taste buds quiver. And in a strange way, sick, depraved, and masochistic way - I ENJOY IT. Good food. ?Just not AMAZING.
Justin L. was moping about missing out on the chicken over rice from this cart so we hopped on the E train at 2 am on Monday morning to satisfy our cravings. YES it was still open and YES there were other people ordering food as well. I like the chicken from this cart; it's not your typical diced and marinated mix of chicken thigh & breast, it's shredded! The rice is seasoned and flavorful, the salad is fresh and they include a couple pieces of FRESH pita bread, none of that stale crap. They hook it up with the white sauce, too, and you NEED it if you pile on their hot sauce (so ridic spicy, you guys!). It's a little pricier than other halal carts ($6) but absolutely worth it.
The holy grail of all NY cart food never comes easy. Lines start forming 30 min before they open at 7:30pm and never subside. 4am? Line's probably a 45 min wait. Rain? Probably a 30 min wait. The lack of tables also means you're eating on the curb or trying to perfect the asian squat. The chicken is juicy and the gyro lamb is probably the tastiest gyro meat I've ever had. The yellow rice is well flavored and this all comes with a few pieces of amazingly fluffy pita bread. Now, onto the sauces. The white sauce is like crack mayo, something is just so addictive about it, not that I know what.... nevermind, and their hot sauce is just pure evil. You think you know spicy? few weeks ago I suddenly had an intense craving for a heaping bowl of chicken and lamb over rice smothered with their diet busting white sauce and beyond evil hot sauce. Outside it's 30 degrees below freezing. The snow is coming down hard with wind gusts of up to 30 mph. I stupidly say to myself that there wouldn't be a line tonight. After 20 minutes freezing minutes, I get my food. 20 minutes after that, I can finally feel my toes and fingers again. 20 minutes after that and my tongue is no longer on fire. Not sure what it is, but this chicken and rice mecca just calls your name. Mine included.
had these several times and just had one today. tastes best when eaten fresh, although reheating your takeout in the mic-wave will taste almost as good. pita tasted like any others. definitely add some chilli sauce if you can really take really spicy(they're really good), because their sauces are devillishly spicy. love the chicken yummmm. don't ever worry about the line, because they move extremely fast. good things come to those who wait.
I love street food and this is one of my favorites. We got a combo of chicken, lamb, rice with salad. The guy put extra white sauce and the spicy red sauce on the top. YUMMY!! I love the spicy red sauce. I wish they sold it separately. The portion was huge! One plate was big enough for both of us. So jealous of New Yorkers!
Alrite, I've heard the hype and had to try this place out myself and i'm happy to say it lived up to the hype. For $6 you can't get a better deal in the NYC. I got the chicken/lamb combo easy on the hot sauce, white sauce and bbq sauce, loved it, I wish I could be eating one now. The line was long, but I was told they can be even longer, maybe because it was so cold out no one wanted to wait in line. I hear it's just as good when you're sober
One of the best drunken bargains in NYC, but be ready to stand on a half block line in the cold for 30 mins. 6 bucks gets you a huge platter of food and they have smaller options for 5 and 4 bucks. I think these guys need to six sigma their process or something because there is no reason it should take that long to slap meat into an aluminum pan. Add your white sauce and BBQ and taste a little piece of 3am heaven. WARNING: GO EASY ON THE HOT SAUCE. Also, don't trust the labels because there is no way to distinguish hot sauce from BBQ and that's a bad thing. Hot sauce is straight FIYAH, no joke, jet fuel.
When I need street meat at 0-dark-30, this is the place to go. There are a couple other really good ones, but this one really shines. It's not rocket science, people. These guys all get their ingredients at the same place. They all season and cook the same. The reason these guys are winners is the extremely high turnover rate, coupled with the fact that you are eating it while wasted at 3am. I wouldn't chalk it up to culinary genius though, lol. By the way, 6 bucks is the price, but leave them a tip because if you are pissed for standing outside for 20 mins in the line, think about them standing outside all night.
YUM. ?What else is there to say?
Halal Cart was good but does not extraordinary. ?I heard they own the surrounding Carts as well so you don't have to wait in the long lines. ?Do I recommend this place, yes it's good and cheap. ?I recommend this after clubbing or quick eats. ?We got the Mix Plate Combo. Lamb is more flavorful than the Chicken but neither was dry. ?$6 can't beat it.
Drunk, tired, and lost in New York does not bode well for most people. ?It landed me in line at 53rd and 6th. After an abusive night at the local watering hole, my overworked stomach needed some love. ?Having had the Salmonella Dogs, the Roach Coach Tacos, and other various street concoctions throughout the land, I must say that this is by far the best. ?It hits a spot in your stomach that no late night meal has ventured into before. ?The harmonious copulation of chicken, lamb, rice, white sauce, hot sauce, and lettuce oozes joy in ones mouth. I want to move to New York just for this cart.
Crazy as it may be, I decided to try this cart in the late afternoon, completely sober, in broad daylight. ?I was not disappointed. ?Maybe I was a little wallet-drunk after hearing the guy say "that's four dollars" in reference to the gigantic lamb gyro I would soon be enjoying. ?Yeah, that's it. ?Either way, this stuff was good -- not just $4 good, but at least $15 good. ?The sauces are fantastic together, but as others have warned, beware the red sauce if you don't really, really enjoy spicy food. ?Fortunately, I really, really do. ?The lamb itself was nicely seasoned, and the pita could hardly have been fresher or more perfect on its own. Drunk or not, if you're hungry and broke, you can't go wrong.
This halal cart rocks. Some days they have the slacker crew there instead but if you catch em when they have the yellow shirts AND the shirts have the black circle logo with the 53rd and 6th Halal words, get on line, order the half lamb/half chicken combo rice platter, get sauce on the side insted and eat it up! The sauce is very spicy so don't overdo it :-)
TOURIST TRAP There are plenty of decent food carts in the city but this isn't one of them. ?If you like overcooked stringy chicken over bland rice, then by all means get on line with the other tourists. ?All that white and hot sauce is needed to mask the tasteless chicken. Don't say I didn't warn you. If you must have your drunken fix of late night streetcart salmonella, try the cart on 9th avenue / 58th street by the Hudson Hotel instead. ?You'll see cab drivers eating there at all hours of the night. Otherwise go to Khan's on 45th St./ 6th Ave. during lunch time or Sammy's in Jackson Heights, Queens off the 7 train during typical lunch or dinner hours. Cheers! N.
who knew one of the best meals i would have had while in nyc was from a cart! it was so good i went back twice in one weekend and had one to go on the flight back. everything was cooked to perfection and that hot sauce had some good heat.
Simply amazing and well worth the wait, which was about 50 people when I went yesterday!
Pretty much the only food on earth that hundreds of people are willing to stand in line for in negative temperatures. Like crack to the drunkards, heaven for the munchies.
I'm pretty sure most party-goers in NYC have experienced halal on 53rd and 6th and most rave about it but I'm probably in the minority that considers it to be over-hyped. ? You get a ton of food for the price but the quality is a little lacking. ?The chicken and lamb aren't as delicious as other halal foods I've eaten. ?The white sauce is fine but the hot sauce is way too spicy and kills the flavor of the food. ?It's great to order from here because it's open so late on weekends (not sure bout weekdays) but the long lines aren't worth the wait.
I have to say... I made a point to go to this Halal Cart when I was in the neighborhood after reading the raves on here. ?This cart is purported to be the best Halal cart in the city. I have to disagree. While my chicken and rice was just fine, if not slightly "off" the flavor I'm used to, it is certainly NOT the best Halal I've had. The best Halal I've eaten has been from the cart on the corner of Broadway and W. 4th Street outside where Tower Records used to be. ?This cart doesn't hold a candle to the flavor of the one downtown.
This cart is the best in the city because they give you more for the money, and it's fresh... very fresh. ?All the people standing in line can't be wrong. There's no point in writing a descriptive review because it's all been said already. When I go here I buy 2 lamb over rices... one for myself, and one for myself. ?I may not eat both then and there, but I get more of my time and moneys worth! ?It's soooooooo goooooood... This is the best in NYC, (and yes, there are a lot of halal carts), and therefore deserves a coveted 5 star rating. P.S. ?The cart on the east side of 6th is the same as the west, and it usually has a shorter line. ?Go there instead!
I happened upon this cart one night when I was visiting New York...me and my friends saw this huge line and decided there must be something good at the end of it...oh man was there ever! Obviously none of us knew what this place was, which made the food all that much better. ?After eating the plate I actually left my hotel room (we were staying in The Hilton) and went to brave the line for another. ?The next night? ?Had it again. It's literally been 3 years since I've had this, but me and my friends always talk about that "amazing cart that served food in NY." ?I can't believe I found the location cause I thought I had lost it forever. ?You can bet that the next time I visit NY I will definitely be coming here! p.s. BRING IT TO LA PLEASE.
Review #451, this leaves me searching for something new to say. Oh hell, impossible. You just have to eat here! I make sure I do every trip out to NYC. Ya got 6 bucks, then done deal you have dinner. Step up get in line, even if you're not hungry, take a smell...go ahead, now you're hungry. Step up, pick your thing, lamb, chicken or beef. Ah the rice, so good. Now give them your 6 bucks and enjoy. Trust me you won't regret it.
Sweet mother of the baby Jesus, er in this case Allah. The food was not only great, it was fantastic! I had reservations about the lamb but I got the combo chicken and lamb salad with yogurt and hot sauces. mmmm....a blissful explosion of tastes from the Middle East! Can't we have one in SF? ?Probably won't be the same....
There are so many halal carts these days selling chicken and rice these days in NYC. ?We stopped by here around 10pm and the line was about 50 people but it moves pretty fast and we were able to order and get our food in about 20 minutes. ?I got the combo which comes with chicken and lamb over yellow rice, lettuce and some pita bread for $6. ?You can choose to put as much white sauce and hot sauce afterwards. ?This place has the spiciest hot sauce so watch out and put only a little bit of it first because I put too much and I can usually handle spicy food. ?I love the chicken and rice but the lamb was a little too salty for me. ?I think the lamb at the halal cart near my house is a lot tastier but this place was still good and I always have cravings for this at least once everytime I come to NYC now.
9 times out of 10 when I'm in NYC, I'm staying nextdoor at the Hilton. And when conventions break for lunch, there's no way my video crew is getting lunch inside the hotel with the convention crowd and all... so we've ALWAYS jumped outside and across the alley for a 1000x better lunch than anything served inside. Filling, cheap, and oh so delicious, these gyro shawarma pita sandwiches are a middle eastern food-lovers dream!... for $4! But with all good things, there are the downsides. And this place has one... other people now know and love my beloved gyro cart, too. Damn the NY Post for voting this the best cart in all of NYC! Damn you thousands who flock here daily! My quick lunch is gone to a line four people wide and half a block long... in rain... at midnight! Now I've relegated my quick meals to just after opening, around 10am. Sure, my wife called me odd for chowing down on a meaty gyro for breakfast, but that was only BEFORE she tried it. One more convert. One more person in front of me in line.
OH MY GAWD...I dream about this place in my sleep. ?Street meat = Heaven in your mouth (especially after drinking). ?Everytime I go to NY, we hit up 53rd and 6th...at least 5 times. ? The line is usually down the block but those guys have the technique down so it's pretty quick. ?Heck, I'd wait a mile's worth of people to get some chicken and rice. ?Go with the mix platter (chicken and lamb), squirt some white sauce all over, ask the guys for extra tubs of white sauce to-go (yes it is necessary, the white sauce is that good), and add just a tad bit of the red sauce (beware of the squirt bottle that is BBQ sauce!). ?That red sauce is like some kind of atomic hot sauce because I almost cried when I put too much on. ?Be authentic and just pop a squat somewhere to eat it. Please franchise your street meat cart to LA.
Umm, really. ?This was so good! ?One of the many things that make me miss NYC-- good eats REALLY late at night for only 6 bucks. ?FTW?! ?Can't get anything like this here at home. ?Boo-hoo. Just get the lamb and rice. ?Drench it in some white sauce and *dab* on a little hot sauce. ?TIP: ?Walk down the same block towards Broadway and you will pass a late night deli. ?Get your drinks there and take advantage of their outdoor seating.
I live 200 miles from New York and I've been known to drive those 200 miles just for the famous Chicken and Rice. I know this place has a million reviews, but it really can't get enough. After a night of drinking, this is the place to be. The spicy, creamy, saltiness of their platters is the only thing you could want when you're a little drunk or buzzed. This is my number 1 food destination in New York. Nothing comes close.
I tried the lamb gyro today. AMAZING! The gyro bread is so soft and fluffy...i think i might actually prefer it more than the chicken & rice.
Another tale of the 'Consensus of the Experienced' vs. 'Inexperienced Me.' The Legendary 53rd & 6th Halal Cart. Inexperienced Me: I'm hungry. Damn, I only have 7 bucks and my metrocard. Fabulous. Hotdog cart anyone? Consensus of the Experienced: IMMEDIATELY back away from the Hotdog cart and walk 2 blocks over. Me: Why? Them: The Halal Cart on 53rd & 6th! HOW did I not know about this beautiful oasis on wheels? One wait on line = Enough amazing food for 2+ meals/people. A mountainous pile of fluffy rice + marinated lamb + the special sauce? = Priceless. As in six bucks of less price.
Look for the line. ?If you aren't waiting for 10 minutes or more, you're not at the right cart. ?Typically they're on the south side of 53rd Street across from the Hilton. ?NEVER on 6th Avenue. ?Sometimes another cart will try to squeeze in on 53rd so be careful. They're not always there, so you may need to come back another time. ?Don't give up and go to one of the other carts; you will just be disappointed.
It is well worth standing in line.. smelling like fat.. and covered in grease from the delicious food coming out of this stand. ?It is a cheap buy for a place like Manhattan. ?There are competing stands so you need to make sure you go to the right one! ?Surely.. it's the one which has a long line. Chicken and rice is the winner... you can't go wrong. And yes, go easy on that spicy sauce.. it is spicy!
It wasn't any better than the other Halal carts in town. ?On the contrary, it was actually greasier.
I don't know what they add to the meat, but it's good stuff! Only five bucks..
The Halal Cart at 53rd and 6th serves up rich, earthy lamb, gorgeous scented yellow rice, tangy white sauce, grilled flatbread, and hot sauce that will bring tears to your eyes and a singe to your lips, no matter how much water and how many lemons you consume afterward. And, it always has a long line that allows you to mingle with people from New York and Europe. This indulgent, simple fare is perfect for a night after hitting the bars. I only wish they included an entire grilled pita in the gleaming aluminum bowl, the better for sharing with a partner. Be sure to hunch on the fountain base close by while eating your midnight meal, as the rippling water is soothing to ears tired from clubbing, and it's the perfect spot for people watching. Recommended.
A PUBLIC SERVICE MSG FROM UR FELLOW YELPER: BE CAREFUL, THE HOT SAUCE IS SLAP-YOU-SILLY SPICY! Solid food like everyone says here. BUT, they offer the hotsauce nonchalantly like at every other streetmeat joint, but SAY NO TO THE HOTSAUCE. ?It is insanely hot here. ?Enough to ruin the experience? No, but enough to really put a damper on things. ?And mind u, i get hot sauce at most of the other such joints, so ur getting this from something of a slight spice-eater. BTW, i went to the new second cart that they just opened up a block away from the original on 53rd and 7th. ?Same food, same yellow outfits on the guys, same plastic bag.
i must say, they paid some marketing giant to hype them up and for that, i give them one star. the chicken was BLAND and rubbery. the lamb was OK, the rice was also FLAVORLESS. Yes, i actually prefer some grease to my halal where is the running, dripping oil?? ?I'd rather have rafiqui's or the one by queens mall ( with the target ).
I don't know what the hell they put in this stuff! I used to be absolutely terrified of street food. When I first moved to the city I had some terrible (and I mean TERRIBLE) street food experiences, including but not limited to a shish kebab composed entirely of chicken fat, a super stale pretzel, and some chicken and rice with enough hot sauce to choke a donkey. Yesterday when walking down Broadway near Prince street, I was starving and decided to brave a halal cart again by ordering a gyro. It was delicious! Good pita, good chicken, good sauce, lots of veggies, and it renewed my faith in street food. So today I decided to try the famed 53rd and 6th cart. Not disappointing. Period. Long line? Moves fast. Food? Stays warm the whole way to Midwood, Brooklyn. Portions? Enough for two meals. White sauce? Mayonnaisse based, which normally grosses me out, but this was pretty good. Hot sauce? hottest fucking thing I've ever put in my mouth.
Really good food. There was a huge portion, that I can't believe I ate the whole thing. ?It was that good and cheap, and large. The gyros are so good, they are some of the best I have ever had. They are so juicy and spicy. You can get either either lamb or chicken. You can also get ?two sauces. One is a mayo-based sauce, the other is a spicy one. I would recommend this restaurant to someone out of town.
So I'm visiting NY for 3 days and don't have anything planned. I go with a friend who is not so good at planning and he keeps asking me, "What are we doing in NY?, What are we doing in NY???" So I keep telling him, I only have two things I really want to do: 1. Go see a show 2. Chicken and Rice After we got there, it turns out I really didn't care about #1. I had only been once to the Halal Cart once before and that was 4 years ago. I made the mistake of putting on waaayy too much red sauce. Yeah I know, DUH, everyone knows that red sauce is HOTTTT. But what do you want from me, this was before I was on Yelp. We only waited in line for maybe 5 minutes (Monday night around 11pm) and the whole time I was stressing about how to order and how much it was going to be. I ended up order 3 combos of lamb/chicken (wut, i eat a lot and yes, it's that good) and I think I got $5 back from a $20. Oh, and I ended up putting too much red sauce again. Tip for the next time: red sauce on the *side*!
The website boldly claims "All the people of the world can be put into two categories: those who have had the platter, and those who have not." ?Having recently been promoted from the "have not" category to the "have had" club, I can fully attest to the statement. ?I don't know how I managed to miss this cart all the years I've been to the city and I now have some serious doubts about the people whose recommendations I relied on to experience New York. ?Not one of them have ever mentioned this place to me. ?Good grief. The experience is, indeed, life changing. ?I'm sure you've queued up for a food vendor and enjoyed the fruits of the process but rarely is this a communal experience. ?The very first thing I noticed when I approached the corner of 53rd and 6th was that everyone was carrying the aluminum containers from the food cart. ?Everyone. ?Cabbies were pulled off to the side of the road eating in their cars, locals and tourists alike were shuttling food back and forth to their friends who had already camped out a comfortable spot on the sidewalk nearby and a mass of hungry people were in a constant queue waiting to be fed. ?It was a beautiful ballet of Halal food consumption. The food is, as you've already read in the previous 666 reviews, top notch. ?If you like seasoned lamb, chicken, rice and a smattering of salad covered in a soothing "white sauce" plus a "red (hot) sauce" that will literally TNT your mouth, this is the proper place for you. ?A mixed rice platter will run you $6 and believe me when I tell you - this is the best bang for your buck this side of the planet. See you in line.
For vendor food, this is pretty good. Actually, even if it weren't vendor food, it's still pretty good. We waited about 40 minutes to get a bowl and a gyro, and everyone in line kept saying this is the ONLY halal cart worth going to over and over again. I haven't tried others, and before I do, I can't really say much. All I know is that I definitely wouldn't wait in a line again for this stuff... Sorry guys!
Before my bf and I went on vacation to NYC we asked our friends and acquaintances who live in NYC and people who had been there for good food/restaurant suggestions. Almost ALL of them mentioned the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. They all told us it is a MUST to stop by and pick up the chicken and rice plate especially after a good night of boozing and dancing. Our first time there we knew this place must have been good because there was a long line. People don't stand and wait in a long ass line in the cold NY weather for food from a cart for no reason. So we waited in hungry anticipation to find out what all the fuss was about and DAYAM!!! Savory juicy chicken and rice goodness explusion in my mouf! That creamy garlic sauce just added that extra BANG! SOOO WORTH THE WAIT! Now we were officially part of the 53rd & 6th Halal Cart fan club. My bf and I probably went back to the halal cart 4-5 more times during our week long vacation in NYC. I remember stumbling drunk to the end of the line. By the time we reached the front I was sober but rewarded with my chicken and rice plate. So it was all gooooood. There are still lines at 4am. Amazing! I miss this halal cart. =( Too bad we don't have anything like this in CA. *sigh*
It all started from word of mouth from my coworker before my trip to NY started. ?I had heard about this chicken over rice on 53rd and 6th before...didn't think much of it. ?It wasn't until late sunday night I went with Erika on a spontaneous late night food run at 2am. ?Figured it would be still be open. ?An HOUR later we finally get there thanks to the trains not running very frequently late night....it was like seeing an oasis in the desert from a distance...glorious halal cart on the corner of the plaza (mind you it was like 20 deg outside, freezing!). The food was delicious....warm pulled/diced chicken and lettuce over seasoned rice, with spicy sauce and "white" sauce on the. ?Damn that was some spicy sauce too...and LOAD on the white sauce!!! ?(I needed more to counteract the spicy sauce). ?I scarfed the majority of my chicken over rice bowl in 3 minutes.......it was 3 glorious minutes. After that, we headed back to the station in the freezing cold...by the time we had got back it was like 330-4am, freezing, and at that point I was starting to think maybe it wasn't worth going all the way to 53rd/6th just for some food. ?But now, looking back - totally worth it!
Thanks to my friend James from Queens, this became the one place I MUST go whenever I come down from Boston. ?If you aren't afraid of lamb, I suggest the combo, with extra white and hot sauce, you won't regret it, well until atleast until the next morning. ?Sadly the last time I was here I could not afford one because I left my ATM card at a bar, and alas had to settle for Chef Boyardee.
I don't know why I could let myself waiting in line for half an hour amidst the blistering cold at 4 AM in the morning for a chicken+lamb platter. I guess it's just damn good. The way I like to eat it? With an inch of pool of white sauce on the top. AWESOME!!!!
I've been going here since 2000 when I first discovered it, it's amazing how much the line has grown over years. ? I still find it extremely satisfying, and I never go there when I'm drunk, I'm not a tourist and I know halal food very well (you'll notice the large number of Muslims from different countries in the lines who keep coming back). ?Personally, I'm a fan of the white sauce, I stay away from the hot sauce, which is extremely hot. ?The first time I brought my brother here back in 2001, he drenched his food in hot sauce and he ended up hating the cart until he had a second try. ?Now he's as big a fan as I am. ?The long line does get irritating, but that's the price of success I suppose. ? Whenever I'm back in NY, I always make sure to stop by the cart at least once, and often end up buying multiple plates to bring back home.
OHH-EMMM-GEEE!!! ? where the hell can i find this in the bay area?!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Couldn't decide what to eat one night after work. It was getting pretty late and I think I had exercised all my options for nearby places to eat... I mean there's really not much to eat around 49th and Lex to begin with! It was a pleasant evening so my friend and I decide to walk up and we pass by this place.. mint leaf? I think it was middle eastern.. it looked like a nice place, but it was totally empty. Then I asked her, so how's that famous chicken and rice cart? She's like.. it's really.. goood... we decide to make our way over, nice walk. The line was like 10 ppl long.. it moved pretty fast...I ordered the combo, had no idea what chicken and rice really was.. grabbed a few of the sauces, bought a gingerale and we went to what my friend called..... and sat and ate. By that time I was already starving, the portion was HUge! I definitely didn't finish, maybe ate about half. I must warn you all though.. that hot sauce.. i had NO idea what I was in for. I wanted to die for probably 5 minutes.. that thick paste... i think it literally close up my throat, felt like I couldnt breathe, brought tears to my eyes, don't think the gingerale helped either. ?but it passed, and then I proceeded to stuff my face and i was okayyy :) It was a nice walk back to my hotel.. all in all a fun experience, plus it's right by the alliance berstein building.. the accenture office, if i'm back in that area in the near future.. imma go again!
Ok, I don't get what all the hype is about this place. After spotting this place introduced in several medias, it made me want to come out to try this place. After a 50min wait in line (for card food? ?are you kidding?) it was finally my turn. ?I ordered the chicken over rice. ?The price was cheap, and the food was ok. Was it good? ?Not bad. ?Was the food worth waiting in line for 50min? ?I don't think so.
The longest line for food I have ever waited on. ?I'm not sure how this works since it is most likely the best food in mahattan but alone the ingredients are pretty bad. ?The chicken is overcooked and if I had to guess I would say thigh rather than breast meat. ?The rice is starchy and the sauce is bland. When you put them all together, they make the greatest plate of food in Manhattan. ?You have to see it for yourself.
For $6 you just can't go wrong with the amount of food and flavor you get here. It is really 2 meals in each bowl. I got the chicken/rice combo with the bread. I added the white sauce and some red sauce. The red sauce is VERY hot but very yummy too if you can handle it.
There's nothing better than Chicken+Lamb and Rice after a night of adventures, especially after Halloween extravagance. The chicken/lamb smells amazing as you wait for your turn, and once you get the hot plate of deliciousness, you pour in white and red sauce to create this mix of rice, chicken+lamb and lettuce... yum! Although there's usually a line and after a night of partying and drinking, you might (like I did) want to go to the bathroom or sit down, and become very impatient, and started wondering whether you should just go across the street to the identical cart with no line... well my advice is "DO NOT!...EVER!" ? Many people have told me that the one across the street is the same... blah blah blah. So uhm I personally decided to challenge my taste buds by going across the street... also to show those crazy fans lining up for that long is ridiculous, I can get it within 3 mins. Well yeah I got my chicken and rice in 3 minutes alright. I took a look at the thing I was holding... cold puny amount of chicken (could barely see them), the rice was cold and hard, the lettuce tasted like it has gone bad, and the pita was near sour... no flavors at all compare to the other stand. I tossed the fake C+R across the street after 3-5 bites (although I've starved myself all day, that was still not worth it). I guess that encounter established my loyalty, and confirmed my status as a crazy fan for the Halal C+R cart
This is a must-eat in NY.
I've had my share of Halal food but this is the absolute best I've ever had! The white sauce and the hot sauce.....WOW. Worth the wait in line (about 40 people in front of me). Get a taste of the hot sauce before you load it on. It may blow your top off. This is a must try if your in the area. 5 stars!
Yay NY Yelpers! I would have never guessed to eat here but it was DELISH! Thank you! We got the Combo plate with the spice and the white sauce and it was a marvelously cheap and delicious lunch! The manfriend and I shared it overlooking a pond in Central Park under the bright yellow fall trees. Swooon. ?These damn NY moments have my heart!
Halal, Halal, for all of y'all Get it straight, don't drop the ball This place is legit if you haven't heard, Right on 6th and 53rd, The other carts don't stand a chance, Their broke-ass meat ain't worth a glance, Imposters, don't you buy their con, 7pm 'til the break of dawn Is when the real joint sells their meat, So if you're hungry on the street, Won't you try their holy meal Their service quick, their flavor real. Peace. Happy eating!
This is why this place is better than all the rest: Better quality meet, never had to spit out anything, which is common with other NYC middle eastern food stands. The flavor of the lamb and rice is better seasoned. The lamb is never chewy as all other NYC carts are and chicken not fatty, but lean. They let you pour on your own sauce, which for sauce lovers like me is heaven. I'm that always asking for more sauce on the side guy, and then when they give it to me, it's not enough. At lunch, the same guys are on the south east side, so before 7, there's not much line, and then after 7, they move to the regular south west corner location, so if you don't mid the wait, there's something cheap and delicious at the end. And I think a good judge of something that is worth it is if you crave it and would make a trip to get some.
work right there a couple days a week and I'm a huge fan of chicken rice. not so much into the 'lamb' it just seems too processed, but the chicken is really good. Love the hot sauce and the white...just be careful..too much hot is painful. Tried lots of places and this one is up there. Love the variety of carts out there...mmmm
Don't be fooled by all the other chicken and rice vendors, they are NOT all created equal. ?This is my favorite of them by far. ?I won't go anywhere else. ?I have driven into NYC at midnight just to have this dish. ?The white sauce and the hot sauce both come on the sides so you can try it and add it depending on your taste. ?The white sauce is tasty but can be overpowering if you put too much of it. ?Fair warning, the hot sauce is very hot. ?I absolutely love spic food and even I need to watch how much I put on. ?The first time I had it I was paying for the amount of hot sauce I put on the next day, so be careful. ?If your visiting NY, this needs to be something you try along with a NY pizza. The only drawback is this cart almost always has amazingly long lines. ?Across the street from the original cart is a second cart. ?Don't waste your time standing behind 20+ people on the original because the second cart is run by the same exact people. ?You save alot of time by going to the second one.
OK, I will keep it short and sweet. ?I had the chicken and lamb combo over rice. ?It was really good... My mom had the lamb gyro and she said it was the best gyro she ever had! ?The white sauce was soooo good but the spicy sauce is almost unbearable! ?If you are a first time I would recommend getting the spicy sauce on the side...lol ?I cant wait to go back again... Next time I will skip the spicy sauce.
excellent
What a great surprise @ this uptown food stand @ 3:30am!! I should come uptown more often.. After a long night of partying... this is definitely hit the spot!! ?6$ chicken and rice rules!!! There was a huge line @3:30 in the morning but it was moving pretty quickly.. worth the wait !! Very unique infamous food stand of NYC i would have to say !!!
This place is SO delicious and not just for a place that's cheap. It's actually just straight up great. The line isn't that long and even if there were a line, it would definitely be worth the wait. Get the chicken over rice. :) I only had the white sauce (cuz I can't handle spicy) but apparently the red sauce is pretty awesome.
Hands down!!! The best gyros in the world. The line was really long. I was only a tourist in NY, I was so glad we were walking back to the hotel when we saw the line and we just queued just for the heck of it and wanted to try why people were willing to line up so long in the cold weather. AFter that one try, gosh, we always look for these guys while we were in town. I'm in back in CA, nothing beats these Gyros stand, definitely the best ever, the meat, the rice, oouhhh the friendliness of their staff, unbelievable... I would definitely come back to this place again when I come to NY for a visit!
what is all the hype about this place?!? there was a line a mile long at 3am. i saw 3 other halal carts before seeing this one... ALL EMPTY. next time... i'm going to give them a try because i don't know what the big deal about this particular one was. i know... people swear that this one is the best.... psshhhh. ok ok... it's not BAD... but seriously it's not ?THAT good. i'm mean... if you want some cheap eats in the middle of the night then yes... it's a good option (i'd take white castle anyday over this place). however... it didn't make me do cartwheels. the chicken is bland and dry. you can drench it with the special white and red sauce which made it better but i still wasn't impressed. btw... the red sauce if FREAKIN SPICY! they do give you a lot of food though... which is always a plus. but i'm still trying to figure out why people rave about this cart? i guess i didn't have enough drinks that night.
So after reading all these rave reviews, I just took cab there to check it out at 11pm tonight (a Saturday). As expected, there was a line but it was short and it cleared in 15 minutes and I was right in front for an order of "combo over rice, no salad and lots of white sauce." I guess the people who voted that it opened for lunch ate at the "other cart that occupies this space" but ?I verified that I was ordering from the "right" people including checking out their plastic shopping bag with their logo. ?Bottom line: I don't know what everybody is raving about. ?Okay, it's good but I've had better at a Rafiqi's cart on 32nd & Broadway, another Rafiqi's on 57th & Park and another independent cart on 86th St between 2nd and 3rd Aves, neither of which open beyond 8pm but are open for lunch. ?These guys' chicken is shredded so finely that it was like eating a puree--I can chew my food myself, thank you very much. The lamb shavings were okay but it was difficult figuring out which was lamb and which was chicken. ?Add in the white sauce (delicious but different from other carts' white sauce only by having more mayo in it; although they do give you a lot of it in those medium-sized containers), and it was like an Arabic Chicken a la King with lamb thrown in, sans mushrooms and sans peas. ?Meh! ?I've truly experienced better at other carts where the chicken is chunky, there are peas in the rice, you can order sauteed onions thrown in, as much white sauce as you want and the lamb is the only shaved item in the food. Update: Bad, baaaad news. ?They were in a hurry and didn't cook the food thoroughly enough since there was a long line and the temperature was cool. ?Without going into gory detail, I'm now suffering in a major way that I've never suffered with any other halal cart before and my Sunday is utterly shot (actually, the vowel in this last word should be more appropriately changed to the one preceding it...) I have also finally discovered distance hurling. Nice. ?Not. ?Can you say "severe food poisoning"??? Update to the Update: After four days of the most severe symptoms possible on a 45-minute rotating cycle, I regain my poise. This is no tiddlywink case of gutrot, thank you very much. It was one step short of dysentry. ?How do I know these guys are the cause? ?Because I had nothing to eat almost 12 hours before and certainly nothing for four (!!!) _DAYS_ after. ?Eat here at your peril. ?They have put me off even other innocent Halal carts for a while--it was so bad that now I can't even pass another cart without the smell making me nauseous...
Um....yeah. I have to say, personally, I thought this place was overrated. I've had my fair share of Halal cart food of the chicken and lamb variety all over Manhattan, and besides the quantity of food you get this one really doesn't float my boat. Yes the white sauce is tasty, but what white sauce isn't tasty? It's pure fat! I agree with everyone else, that red sauce is dangerous, so try a little at a time. Or make sure you have a big jug of something to wash it down, otherwise you'll be crying in a few seconds. As for the actual plates, the rice was a little on the hard side and had little flavor. The salad was okay but that may have been because it was in the white sauce. The bread was norm. The chicken was shredded and really, really disappointing. It had flavor yes, but it just wasn't appetizing. I was expecting little chunks of tasty, moist, flavorful chicken -- something to let me know I was eating chicken. This reminded me of shredded chicken I could've gotten @ Mexican holes in the walls in the Bay Area. There was nothing else but seasoned chicken -- I didn't see any onions or any other type of flavoring that enhanced the meat. The lamb was a tad better but only because I was comparing it to other overly salted gyros meat that I've had at other carts. All in all totally overrated. Maybe I need to try it again after a night of drinking and if there was no line. But until then...I think I'll save my $6 and go get me a plate for $5. Put the $1 towards a sweet tea @ McDonald's. :) P.S. Forgot to mention the service! They weren't overly mean or anything but they definitely were not there to help you make ordering a memorable part of your experience...unless of course you want to feel like cattle. I'd appreciate a smile while they take your wad of money, it's only fair!
I regret the day I didn't listen to other yelpers in regards to the hot sauce (which is today). It's REALLY HOT, I arrogantly thought that I could handle it so I put more than 1 huge squeeze on my dish, it was definitely the wrong move. I'm in tears as I type this review. It losses 2 star due to the service, I know they are busy and I only bought 1 dish, but the least they could've done was to cover my dish since I asked it to-go. I repeatedly asked for it to be packed, they are more professional in terms of packing than me, I'm sure, but nope, I had to stand there, juggled between putting the change to my wallet and packing my dish. The dish itself is great, I ordered the mix platter without the rice. I prefer the chicken to lamb, the chicken is very very juicy and the white sauce is very good, be generous when you pour it. I personally doubt whether I would come back alone, but if I'm accompanied by friends, I would come back.
The lines are ridiculous on late weekend nights, but damn is the food good. Leftovers for when you're sober are even better. Combo plate all the way!! If only I lived in NY.. I'd be all over this place like their white sauce on rice! AHHHHHH MY DREAMS ARE MADE OF THIS!
Delicious! A trip to NYC isn't a trip without stopping at the Halal cart. It's a must for all tourists as well as locals. I'd never thought something as simple as lamb, chicken, rice, and pita bread served in a bowl made out of foil can taste so good. Beware of fakes though. You CAN taste the difference. My friends and I got so drunk, we stopped by the wrong cart. I knew something was strange since there were no lines. I took one bite, threw the rest of the food in the trash can, and stumbled my ass back to 53rd and 6th to wait in a line that seemed to stretch for miles. You can small talk with other drunk people while you wait so the lines don't seem as long. Oh yeah, beware of the hot sauce. It's comparable to the 9/11 sauce at Cluck U's!
I had halal cart SOBER & INTOXICATED SOBER - 5 stars We were looking for a midnight snack since we were hungry after our Broadway show. We walked our way to 53rd St. and 6th Av only to find the lovely Halal cart right across the street from the Hyatt. SCORE!! There were about 15 people in line at approx 11pm on a Thursday night. We waited about 5 minutes and the whole time I was thinking that I would probably eat this nightly if I stayed at the Hyatt. Anyway, we paid $6, received our food, and we were good to go. I have to add that the worker was quite pissy when I told him I wanted it to-go when he had already stuck a fork in it as if I was going to eat it on the spot. Screw you too, Halal cart man! Don't forget to grab two or three containers of the white sauce and one small container of the red. We got down to the subway and trekked our way back to the hotel. We devoured this in less than 10 minutes. IT HIT THE SPOT. The lamb was spot on, the chicken was mildly dry (hence the need for white sauce), the lettuce was fresh and crisp, the rice was cooked right, and the pita bread was soft and hot. I was sad that they only gave me 2 small pieces. TWO? THAT'S IT? Psh. INTOXICATED - 4 stars After a Saturday night out in the LES, we took a cab to MTE to get some more halal cart! We were craving it so much. This time, at about 3am on a Friday night, there were 30 people in line. WOW. We got our food and this time, one of the workers was pissy when I asked for togo containers filled with white sauce. He asked me if I could use the sauces on the side and I said no, you have containers right there, give it to me!! We took it back to the hotel again and scarfed it down. This time, something was slightly off. Maybe it was because we had Gray's Papaya beforehand (heh heh heh) so we weren't hungry but I'm not quite sure. But I will say, I did get more pita bread this time! Yay! Did you know there are two Halal Carts on 53rd St. and 6th Av.? SE and SW corners. Does anyone know what the white sauce is made of? Ranch? Yogurt? Goodness?? Oh and yeah, I still can't figure out why Halal Cart didn't taste as good drunk as it did sober. Can someone explain this? Because I sure can't. Overall, I think I'll be back to Halal Cart when I return to NY.
Ive been coming to this outdoor cart in the wee am hours since 1998. ?It used to be 5 bucks but now its 6 bucks for this delectable lamb with rice. ?Hot sauce is awesome as well as the white sauce. ?Lines are soooo long. ?It used to be better when they sliced the meat and cooked it right then and there. ?I'll miss this place but I will be come again when I visit NY.
For the price, few meals in NY will give you the satisfaction of this Halal cart. ?We got a chicken gyro and lamb over rice. ?The hot sauce had a great kick. ?When we went there was no line, but I think I would probably stick out a line 20 peeps deep for this food.
Plane lands at about 1am. ?We get to the hotel and check in sometime around 2am. ?Hunger sets in. ?We ask the check-in lady if anything is open nearby, and she points us in the direction of some unnamed deli. ?Bullshit. ?Get out the Yelp iphone application and we're instantly informed about the Halal cart a block away. ?Cool beans. For $6 bucks I had a huge heaping pile of pretty good chicken over pretty good rice with some pretty good white and red sauces on top. ?I'm not sure I appreciate everyone else's enthusiasm here, but I certainly get the appeal of late night street food.
my office is 3 blocks away and this place is always a solid back up plan if i need a quick cheap bite. ?i've never had to wait in the crazy lines (i guess cuz i'm not going during the evening or late night rush hours). i like the white sauce (i don't do the hot sauce) and yellow rice and they always throw in a sliced pita bread and lettuce as well. ?although it's a toss up between this and sammy's halal by my house in woodside, queens (also in west village). ?sammy's uses a lighter brown rice so it makes it seem a little healthier...
The line at this cart is the longest I have ever seen. Whether it at 1PM or 1AM, they are always busy and the food is cheap and delicious. My colleague would even come from Queens to this spot just to get the cheap food which is fulling. The white sauce is great, hot sauce is extremely spicy so be warn. I am lucky I work across the street from this cart so I can see when the line is long and when it not so I can get my fixing.
DELICIOUS LATE NIGHT STREET FOOD We arrived late in Manhattan and we were hungry and tired; Halal food cart on 53rd and 6th came to our rescue. Chicken over Rice We ordered the chicken and rice combo with white sauce and red hot sauce. ?The chicken was freshly cooked in front of us and was full of spices. ?The rice was also seasoned and it was accompanied by pita bread. ?I doused the entire round aluminum container with white sauce and a little of the hot sauce. ?I was pleasantly surprised to find an inexpensive satisfying meal in the middle of Manhattan.
(This review may be slightly biased due to the effects of alcohol) Oh Halal Cart I miss you! ?I'm sorry but the chicken was so perfectly cooked and JUICY, the rice was tasty, warm, and fluffy. ?Add a splash of blazin' hot sauce, some creamy smooth white sauce, and some fresh cooling veggies on the side. ?All for a mere ~$6? (Blame it on the vodka...) Best food ever after a good night, beating out overdone pizza, wings, and breakfast. ?Well, I still would eat kobe beef sliders. I really could eat this practically everyday for lunch, it's that addicitive. ?Wait. It's not open for lunch. WAIT. I'm not in NYC. gdlkjhakgjadhkghsdhljgka
When I told my cousin that I was going to New York, she immediately said, "When are you coming back? Can I get you to buy me some chicken rice?" ?It's THAT good, ladies and gents. ?See my previous review, I did daydream about it. First night in New York, bleary-eyed and bewildered from the different time zone, I ventured out around 8pm and made my way to 53rd and 6th. ?Stood in line for a good 20 minutes, first patiently, then not so patiently. ?By the time I got my Chicken and Rice, the beast I call my stomach was in agonizing hunger pain. ?So I quickly squirted that flaming hot sauce and some of the white sauce, then sat down and started eating. ? It is still as good as I remember it. ?Seriously, thinking about ?it makes my mouth salivate. ?I am docking one star because the hot sauce caused some discomfort the next day. ?But I think it's because I went crazy, I thought I could handle it, but alas... If you go, be prepared to stand in line. ?It's cash only (what do you expect from a street vendor?), but seriously, you will be full for under $10.
This place is the food of the gods. Cover it in white sauce, add a splash of BBQ, and as much hot sauce as you can handle. I always overdo it and end up crying, but they are tears of pure joy, I swear.
If you're frequenting the bars in Midtown and become hungry, I'd recommend the Halal Cart. Just don't be surprised if you go back during the day and it doesn't taste as good as it did when you were inebriated. It's still good, but the platter definitely tastes better when inebriated.
Sometimes fate doesn't just knock, it rings the doorbell. Strolling down 6th Avenue today me and my lucky companion realized that we'd hit 53rd Street and that Halal cart idly serving patrons only had five people in line. On this particular Saturday afternoon, I hadn't eaten all day and just as I laid eyes on the meager queue my tummy rumbled, as if whimpering for a chicken and lamb plate with white sauce. Five minutes and $6 later I enjoyed the absolute tastiest halal cart grub I've ever tasted. I doubt I'd wait in the notorious dinner-time lines but if you happen to pass it on an off day, you'd have to be seriously deranged not to indulge.
Hot damn!!! Love their rice platter with grilled lamb! These guys raise the bar when it comes to street food, They do succeed in making Halal cuisine taste so good! The meat is perfectly salted and peppered with spice, Their famous white sauce is ohhh so nice! Consider it your loss, If you don't ask them to add on "extra" white sauce.
The combo plate is some of the best value to be had in midtown! I second all the words of warning about the hot sauce: it's an expansive heat that doesn't peak for a bit. Regardless, it's a great accent when used in conjunction with the white sauce.
I don't know how to cuss in Egyptian, but I'm pretty sure that the Halal dude did exactly that when he gave me a disgusted look and said some jibberish to my face. When I ask, "Can I have it To Go please?" This was the mean Halal man's answer: "The sauce is on the other side!!" Umm...WHAT? So my friends and I repeated ourselves, quite clearly and politely. And all he did was repeat "Yea, the sauce is over there! You get the sauce!" First of all, there's little to-go cups of white and red sauce RIGHT in front of us. If I want them to go, why the hell would you tell me to get sauce from the side of the cart when these portable sauces are 5 inches away?? Secondly, if he's going to cover some plates and put them in a bag for the people right in front of us, then I assume he'd do the same for us. But apparently, us asking politely for To Go really got his panties in a bunch. So he got frustrated, mumbled something in English, and then and cussed at me after I asked him for a bag. I may not understand Egyptian, but I understand when I'm being called something not so nice. If this a-hole always works at this cart (on the east side of the corner), I may very well stand in the long ass line on the west side. Because at least those guys are nicer. They get the job done quickly w/o ever being an a$$. Oh yea, and he only gave me 2 puny slices of pita ?bread!! ARGH.
This place is amazing. The chicken and lamb is the best I ever tried. I wish I could have brought some home. BEWARE of the red sauce is super HOTT !!! This place is a must for all you first timers, thats if you like chicken and wanna try lamb for the first time.
Ok street meat weirds me out but this place is a staple in NYC. This place is so famous that people want to BE them. They actually have cart IMITATORS. Haven't you heard? Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. I found this out because I was looking for this cart for my touristy friends to try while i was at work. In doing so I found several articles by legit NY publications warning patrons that if you want the original "cart guys" then look for the ones with the yellow jackets and yellow bags with red writing. Oh hello organized chaos! Their meat is very juicy and it's flavorful. It's a mix of lamb/chicken but I think you can get them seperately as well. It's unlike any street meat I've ever had (then again I've only had about 3). They give you an ample serving and their hot sauce is really pretty damn hot. Oh and it comes with a white sauce that is calorie-ladenly delicious. Considering the massive lines at 3 am, this place is worth bringing the after party.
in song; Wait in line for 50 minutes Lock eyes, tingles down my spine Make my way through the crowd Finally up, front of the line Chicken and lamb over rice Hot plate of food in my hand Six dollars? that's a good price Spot up against the wall just to stand Pop open the cover Dig in to the awesome food and then I jizzed in my pants yes, I jizzed in my pants. Jizzed in my pants! B-b-b-best street food you could ever have. ?Totally worth the wait and the food is really more awesome than you would ever expect from a cart. I just thought about chicken and lamb over rice with that white sauce just now and I ..... in my pants.
Someone... someone... anyone, should have warned me about the red sauce. Like, REALLY warned me about the red sauce! Despite having slightly spoilt my first halal chicken and rice dinner with a terrific dousing of lava, I enjoyed it immensely. So good, so tasty, and only about $6, I cried and I laughed and I ate, for all of NY to see from my tiny bench as I watched the ever growing line pass and giggle at my red nose and my burnt tongue. So be it! The sacrifice was worth it.
This NorCal girl says this cart was "Halal good!" So f'n awesome that we took a trip at 2am, when we were already full from dinner! White sauce... wow, but I'm taking a stab that majority of it must be ranch sauce. ?Red chili sauce will make you hurt the next day if you haphazardly drench everything with it. ?You really just need to stab it with your fork and get little pinpricks worth. ?Or else you'll need a full match book to mask that morning bathroom session. ?You've been warned! The guys are quick and don't waste time on chit chat. ?They've tuned in on only a few words while working the cart. ?Chicken. Beef. Lamb. Rice. Gyro. ?Extra white sauce over there. ?That's about it. We preferred the beef (or was it lamb?) over the chicken. ?Much more flavor n spices and didn't seem as dry. ?Over rice is the way to go. ?In gyro form... well, you'll likely waste half the contents, because everything keeps spilling out. ? A definite must try. ?There are halal carts on every NY corner, but these guys have their signature yellow bags.
Mmmmmm... I miss you Halal Guys! ?While walking to dinner from our hotel on a recent trip to NYC, we saw a line. ?A long line. ?We smelled something really good. ?We took note of the corner we were at. ?We went to dinner, then got back and googled the address. ?That brought us to Yelp of course. The first time, we got in line at around 7:15.. There were about 15-20 people in front of us. ?We waited until 8:15 before they started serving up. ?We got extra hot sauce and the white sauce. ?Yes, the white sauce is good, and the hot sauce is HOT, they are not messing around. ?But it's the combo of seasoning on the lamb chicken, rice and lettuce. ?Amazing!!! ?It is fantastic without the white sauce! While in line during our 2nd trip to the Halal Cart, we started seeing yellow bags with a familiar logo on them, coming from across the street. ?WTF? ?We've been standing in this ridiculous line for a meal that we can find at their other cart right across the street????? Boy did we feel dumb! ?Out of fear of losing our spot in line, we just waited. ?(Again,dumb!!) Then finally on our last night, and final chance for Halal Cart love, we decided to try to cart across the street. ?Well, guess what? The same guy who was serving up at the cart with the line, was working the other cart that day! ?We smiled, ordered our food, headed back to our hotel, looking at the cart with the loooonnnngggg line, and saying, crap, that was us a few days ago! ?We feel like morons!
I have many memories of coming here late night while in college, although I must admit the first ?time i went i didn't think the food was all that great. it was too greasy for me. luckily i was persuaded to go back, and it's been really good every single time since. now, this place isn't heaven on earth (although more than 400 reviewers on yelp seem to think so O_O ). ?what it is is more of an experience than anything else.. kinda like those touristy spots that foreigners frequent in NYC (or americans abroad). ?the lines can get absurdly long at night, but then again sometimes theres hardly anyone there. the line does get moving pretty quickly though. dont get me wrong, the food is pretty good. and it's also cheap, which is why i rate it a 4. a must if you're in the area (or if youve been out drinking for awhile and have a sober friend with a car). one thing i do appreciate (which is why i gave it a 4 instead of a 3) is that they now put the white sauce and the hot sauce on the side in little plastic containers. when i first started going, they would douse (and i mean DOUSE) the entire plate with the sauces , and that was too much flavor for my taste. now you're free to put as little or as much as you want. smart move
This place is the second best halal cart in NY. The first is Sammy's Halal Food in Jackson Heights. But do give this place a try; their hot sauce and white sauce is like no other.
My friend once told me about this mythical cart across the street from Hilton in Midtown. ?As my friends and I were walking around aimlessly at night, we stumbled upon a cart with a line about 100 times longer than just about all the other carts, I knew this had to be it. ?All the reports are true, the white sauce is a godsend. ?I'm not quite what they did to it, but it's considerably better than any other tzatziki sauce I've had. ?Also, the hot sauce is pretty damn hot so be forewarned. ?Everyone seems to rave about the chicken and rice, but I actually enjoyed the lamb more. ?Well, really it doesn't matter, because the key is dousing whatever you have with white sauce...
I've been here many times with my family and it's consistent and delicious and worth coming out from near JFK to eat here. ? If you see their own people with their families in the same line as you waiting for an enjoyable meal, you know you need to come here and have a meal with everyone. Their white sauce is like crack and I wish I could steal a bottle or if they just sold the white sauce by the bottle that would be nice too. The line moves quite fast and the ordering process is in writing, and simple to understand. ?Please READ the menu before getting to the mysterious man who takes the money and passes you the magic food, so you don't end up having a bad experience. ?There's extra white and hot sauce on the side of the cart, don't be shy :)
Amazing. I was a little unsure about a food cart at first, but after killing off a bottle of sake and some washington apple shots, it seemed the the best idea ever. I'm not even gonna lie, it was. My friends and I smelled the food a block a way, and when we got there, the line did not lie. I mean, if there's a long ass line and drunk people are still going to wait, then hot damn it must be good. It took about 15 minutes or so to get through the line, but it was worth it. The chicken and rice plate was only $6 for a giant portion. The sauce though, is what makes it killer. We made a mistake the first time we went and put a little too much hot sauce onto the rice. Let me just say a few drops will be sufficient for even the steel mouth. The white sauce is to die for. Just brilliant. I couldn't get enough of it! I ended up going twice on my trip to NYC and was not disappointed ever. It's definitely a place to stop by if you are in the area, if not, you just have to make time.
The best choice in late night/street food! I remember long ago, before my chicken and rice cherry was popped...my young virgin taste buds questing for the exhilaration of something satisfying after a hard night of partying in Manhattan. I would roam around drunk every weekend doing whatever I pleased with greasy pizza and old soggy burgers. The next day was painful and embarrassing...making promises the night before to call for delivery or worse...saying I'd see them again, but I never did. They knew what they were...fat, ugly, unhealthy, one night stands. As if the hangover wasn't enough, I had to groggily ask myself each morning, "Oh God, I put WHAT in my mouth last night?" I knew that I could not keep up with this lifestyle much longer. Then, one night my friend suggested we should go to 53rd and 6th and I could get something really fantastic on the street corner. Chicken and Rice. Ever since that one eventful night, my world of late night food has been turned upside down. I recommend the chicken, lamb, and rice combo plate. It comes with some lettuce, and pita slices. They give you a good amount of food, and I usually end up splitting it with someone. The white sauce (reminiscent of taziki) is amazing, and the hot sauce is one of the hottest things I've ever eaten (and I've eaten whole habanero peppers!) so beware if you can't stand spicy! Overall, I can not recommend Halal Guys enough. It is among the best late night food in NYC, and it certainly is easy on the wallet.
Let's just say I get this at LEAST twice a week. Four times a week when i'm drunk. WARNING: you'll have stomach problems the following morning. (gasy + weird bloated feeling) But i still give it a 5 regardless. ?THAT'S HOW GOOD IT IS. ?WORTH THE SUFFERING!!!!!!!! P.S. ?get extra white sauce and hot sauce!! nom nom nom~
The exotic mix of lamb spices blended with the rich aroma left a tingling sensation on my tounge which is more than I can say for my companion, who simply devoured it whole. It was in fact, like watching a scene from Jurassic park of the T-Rex eating the poor lamb tied to the rail. Nevertheless, it was great for a drunk night out as long as you remember to throw away whatevers not there, which wasnt much.
I dont think I can add much to what was already said. ? When I went at 9:15pm on Wednesday night, there was about 25 people ahead of me but I only waited about 15 minutes and this was worth the wait. Hot sauce is pretty hot so be careful with it. Im giving this 5 stars because it is the best food cart. ?Obviously you cant compare this to five star restaurants in the same way but Id say the food here beats out similar food at normal restaurant establishments serving chicken/lamb and rice.
On my way to New York, I was told to visit this halal cart. ?Since the only information I had was that it was called Chicken and Rice (and had some ridiculous chicken and rice), I was searching every halal cart in the city with no luck. ?If it hadn't been for the power of word of mouth, I would've never found this delicious haven. Yes, this halal cart has amazing food for late night. ?But that does not mean you have to be drunk to enjoy it. ?It is delicious at all hours and at all stages of drunken, or non-drunkeness! ?My friend and I split the norm--chicken and rice. ?And yes, it is fit for two. ?We followed the locals by dousing it in sauce and it felt like the best meal I've ever had in the city! ?Oh, and by doused in sauce, I mean white sauce. ?As everyone says...beware of the red sauce. Screw pizza, hot dogs, and bagels. ?I want this halal cart to be known.
I've always known this place as Chicken and Rice. That's how my friends and I refer to it when we come out of the bars after hours. Though it is the best halal cart I've had in NY, it isn't so much better to worth making a trip out there unless you're close by. Living uptown, I wouldn't go down just for Chicken and Rice. Get half chicken and half lamb. Go crazy on the white sauce. Skimp on the red sauce.
I hadn't made the trip here in a while, partially because of all the halal carts that have popped up all over the 5 boroughs, But, on Halloween, I was drunk and within walking distance so I took a stroll down memory lane. The line was insane. But, my boyfriend and I cut to the front and they were happy to serve us ahead of the 100 people standing there, for an extra fee that was well worth it. The combo platter was slightly better than I remembered. And the hot sauce was slightly hotter than I remembered as well. And the clientele? The most entertaining group you'll find in the city!
*yellow bags *Self serve sauces *the cart is furthermost east on 53rd and 6th *circular aluminum plate Once all these components line up you have found the CORRECT cart. ?Now be warned there is another that is directly across the street from them that claim to be the famous cart......not so much. ?I was fooled once before...never again. All i need to say is that for $5 you get the chicken and rice plate with pita bread and lettuce. ?It's great on its own but it's deliciousness is multiplied 20fold when you toss in the hot sauce (it's even a bit hot for me) with the white sauce and create a pink sauce....then pour it all over the rice and chicken, mix it up and go to town. just don't eat too fast. ?i suffered from the hiccups because i just couldn't contain myself.
Damn, the platter (lamb only) is unbelievable. ?Being from the midwest, our drunk food has always been LaBamba's (burritos as big as your head) or Steak & Shake, however this halal cart ranks right up there with them. ?The hardest part for me is waiting for eat the damn thing unitl I get up to my room at the Hilton across the street. ?The best part is the ride up the elevator....anyone that is still up at that time of night, that does not have a platter of their own, asks me what I am eating, than inevitably heads back down to get their own. ?A must for anyone and worth the wait.
I recommend getting a combo platter of lamb and chicken over rice with white sauce and a little bit of the red sauce.
Chicken + rice + pita + random filler veggies + sauce + atomic spicy insane red sauce = heaven! I have dreams about the chicken & rice platter. The best part of this is probably telling my out-of-towner friends who have never had this before to put only ONE baby drop of the spicy sauce on the platter or none at all, and they go on and on about how much they love spicy food and then start crying after their first bite. It's the best. Do I really need to write a full review about this when everyone and their mom's already did? Nah. I think talking about my friends crying from the hot sauce is good enough. So seriously... one baby drop or none at all. Stop trying to be so macho!
last year i was in NY to eat at peter lugers and sparks. both were fantastic. ?on the cab ride back from peter lugers , the driver said i must eat here and pointed to this cart and said i would not be dissapointed. the next day: after eating at sparks and being super full, we walked around to "walk it off" stopped by a few bars, got a good buzz going and decided to walk back to our hotel room....i had no idea this cart was so popular. there was a short line but it was early in the evening (early for Ny) so i lined up and when it was my turn to order, i said this is my first time here, what do you suggest. he said "ok "and shoveled a bunch of stuff in the tin plate and said 6 bucks. i gave him 6 bucks and when i grabbed the bag, i almost dropped it. the freaking thing must've weighed 2lbs. got back to the hotel and stopped by the bar and had a few drinks and then back to the room. it was one of the best meals i ever had. the hot sauce was freakin hottttt and i can hangle hot! ? i will go back to that cart one day soon.
Okay, it's 4.5 stars for me...but i'll round it up to 5. Yes it is as good and cheap as everyone says it is. Only real complaint, the chicken seems a litty dry to me (without the white sauce). I mean, I know the meal is not complete without the white sauce, but i think i would've given it a full 5 stars if it was a little better. But aside from that, best halal cart food I've ever had.
Jesus people , whats the big deal ? ?Its just rice and chicken and so not worth the wait. Over rated? ?YES ! ?Over rated? YES ! Over rated? YES YES YES ! You can pretty much make this at any middle eastern restaurant.. get some rice.. garlic sauce .. chicken shawarma .. mix it all together ..and there you have it.. Now you can do something productive with the time I just saved you.. like blinking wildly and then closing your eyes really tight for an interesting light show
For the record, I have eaten here between 10-15 times now, so I have a pretty good idea of this place. 0. It is dirty cheap. 1. It is VERY tasty. ?The white sauce makes this dish. ? 2. Like most tasty things, try not to eat a lot of it, because... 3. If you do eat a lot of it, you will want to stab yourself in the stomach 2 hours later. ? Honestly, this place makes my stomach feel worse than after a Big Mac. ?My advice, split it with a friend and you'll be ok.
Don't be fooled by the 5 stars. It really deserves a 6. why? Ghetto truck pumping out bomb-diggity food = A+ cheap = A+ hot sauce is actually spicy! = A+ All the cabies know this place is legit = A+ Open all night = A++ Long lines = A- but line goes fast = A+ Big portions = A++ Total = WERD!! (caution: flame in, flame out rule applies to this meal) Let me tell you, when I crave this place, the cravings hit me hard. Especially since the bay area has zero trucks of this calliber. Migrate over to the west side please!!!
I hesitate to give this late night "junk food" 5 stars, but it's part of the New York City experience. Halal carts have basically taken over hot dog/pretzel stands on the streets of New York. This is the best halal that I've had and is a bit different from what you usually get. For $6 ($1 more than the usual carts), you get a huge platter of rice, lamb/chicken combination, salad, pita, and sauces. For drunk late night food, it's some of the best. The portion is so big that you probably should split it with someone. Then again, if you have an appetite, you can shovel that yummy hala goodness into face until you're completely stuffed. They give you a container of hot sauce and white sauce. Watch OUT for the hot sauce. it's extremely spicy and you don't need the whole thing. Don't ruin your whole plate of food by throwing it all in. As for the white sauce, which they're famous for, put on as much as you can. They even have bottles on the side of the cart that you can use so you can go crazy. As for a tip, don't wait on line like all the other people. Right across the street there are extra carts. They sell the same thing and you can tell by exact same yellow bags hanging from the carts. I don't know why people aren't catching onto this. While it's nothing something I could eat everyday, I think this has become something that you simply have to experience in New York. It's near Time Square for all you tourists and even die hard New Yorkers keep coming back to this place.
Beware of wannabe carts strategically positioned nearby, especially during the day. I have yet to pass by on a weekend night without seeing a ridiculously long line and random drunk ppl devouring chicken and lamb on the street. FYI- people can get angry and violent over this stuff- do not cut the line or piss off the servers! Definitely try the white sauce on the combo platter-- a little goes a long way with the red sauce! ?I've braved the long line a few times now-- I always hate the wait, but the minute I take that first bite, all is forgiven.
my EGYPTIAN muslim brothers run 53rd and 6th, people are so dumb they think its greek food lol. surprised when i see so many asians chinese, etc etc. its da best for 6 bucks but if the line is long screw it. i walk across the street to the other stand. its the same owners and same food
THis place is great,Only problem is the hours from 7pm till early in the morning,is not very convenient. Beware long line for the cart.
I had to update this rating. ?I've been thinking about this place for about 4 days, and I can't seem to get it out of my mind. ?Any food place that does that to you has to be worthy of 4 stars. ? why haven't I satisfied the craving? ?Apparently, I'm 90 years old and have to eat dinner prior to 5:30pm.
Great street food though a bit soup nazi'ish. I felt as if I was going to get refused service when I had to be asked twice "Sandwhich or Rice." Went back twice during my trip... well worth the walk from Time Square
O Halal.. where have you been my whole life? ? I only discovered it this past summer and now it's quickly becoming a staple in my weekly meals... Sigh, sure my stomach lining is probably non-existent by now from the hot hot red sauce, but it's ok, just coat and soothe it down with some white sauce and all better! And don't kid yourself thinking the other imposter cart across the street is the same thing with it's "shorter" line... ?it is NOT the same. 53rd and 6th, go.
overhyped place but very cheap eat. if you do go there, take out and take it home and heat in your microwave and eat. tastes better. the white sauce though i wudn't recommend.
Six bucks for such a big portion of lamb and rice is worth it...but it's not sooo awesome that I would be willing to wait on a long line for it. This place is no doubt good, considering when I went here in the pouring rain, it was about a 20 minute wait to get my food. ?The last few times I've been there, there are 2 carts that are across the street from each other. ?I hear different things about this. ?Some say that after 5 pm, they alternate corners or they're the same thing or some say they are completely different and you have to look at the plastic bag it comes in. I am not so in love with it that I would keep going back and forth between the 2 carts to check out the specs ...but unfortunately my pal is, so we did that in the pouring rain for a good 5 minutes..god i hate you a. tam if you are reading this. jk..please still be my friend.
After many drinks at Hard Rock Cafe we decided to venture out to find the famous chicken and rice cart. We didn't know the exact location but we knew enough to find it. As we walked down the 6th street we noticed many chicken and rice carts. We knew it wasn't the "one". How did we know? ?No line. We kept walking until we found the cart on 53rd and 6th. How did we know? Long ass line like the line you would find in front of Kogi truck in LA. I was told the chicken was the best but I tried the meat. It came with orange colored rice and side order of salad. Now, the secret to this is the famous white sauce and super hot sauce. I put both in. Woooa. Hot sauce was super hot but blended with the creamy white sauce made my mystery meat and rice sing. The meat was very much like the lamb meat you would find in a gyro. Same texture and taste. The white sauce was also very much like the white sauce (tzantzik) you would find in a gyro. Tasty. I certainly miss it and wish we could have something like that here. I guess we have the taco trucks ............................. I will go back when I'm out there again. ?Please note that it is a street cart and there is nothing to protect you from the cold in the winter. ?I take that back. ?The 10 shots before the dining experience helped, somewhat.
Holy Halal, this place is the pinnacle of deliciousness. I went here with my cousin after watching Phantom of the Opera, and at first I complained as we walked block after endless block down to 53rd. I obviously had no idea what was in store for me. The line was pretty insane, but thankfully it wasn't around the corner (yet). I got the combo plate, and I couldn't believe the price, so cheap! I basically gorged myself with the wonderfully fresh meal of lamb and chicken, and GOD, that white sauce is heaven! The only thing I can complain about is that it isn't open earlier, but hell, so long as I get my fix, I'm fine.
This place effing rocks. ?I don't see how a place that serves up a flavor orgasm until the wee hours in the morning for under $10 in NEW YORK CITY (of all places) could be "overrated." ?Saying so would earn one a trip to the stake of burning if this was still New Amsterdam. Get the combo plate, you won't regret it. ?White sauce... you can't skip out on it and still considered yourself having dined here. ?Uber-awesome for me personally because I planned on visiting this fabled cart anyway, and lo and behold it's right outside the Hilton that I was staying at. ?So unlike some poor schmoes (this was the winter after all), I only had to brave the cold for as long as the line was... then I just scurried back into my room and enjoyed the bounty in warmth and comfort. ?But don't be mislead, I'd still go there if I had to eat outside and it was -40F. ?Yes, it's that good. Overrated? Psh.
Believe the hype. ?This is the best. ?Get the combo platter with hot and white.
This might be, hands down, the best food value in Manhattan. ?$5 buys you a huge pile of rice with chicken and/or gyro lamb, lettuce, tomatoes, amazing white sauce, and spicy red. ?It is enough for two meals and extremely tasty. ?Everything is well cooked and spiced. ?The hot sauce is extremely hot - a little dab 'll do ya. ?Their gyros rock as well. ? If you are looking for great, cheap food in NYC, this is your place! ?But, be warned, the lines at meal times and late night can be outrageous.
The meat is awesomely tasty. ?With street meat, you can pretty much always count on the gyro being tasty and delicious (and at 53rd and 6th they do gyro right). The difference between 53rd and 6th and other street meat vendors is the chicken. ?The chicken is moist and tasy and utterly fantastic. ?The rice is also flavorful and tends not to be overcooked. Let us move on to the sides. ?The yogurt sauce is good... but I honestly don't think its great. ?I have the haunting suspicion that is quite similar to water-downed mayo (sounds grosser than it tastes). ? I do have a problem with the hot sauce. ?It is just too damn hot. ?I know 53rd and 6th is famous for having some of the hottest hot sauce. ?But honestly... why? ?I am drunk and its 330 in the morning. ?I feel very confident... I can eat anything... what's a little hot sauce. ?A little voice in my head tells me to be a man... so I keep adding hot sauce. ?I add too much and my mouth catches fire. ?It is unpleasent. ?I blame 53rd and 6th. ?I place some blame on the alcohol. ?I do not blame myself.
The line is always so long at this popular halal cart, whether it's 8 pm or 2 am. My friend visiting from SF and I shared a chicken and lamb combo over the rice. This was sooo good! Definitely loaded up on the white sauce. I didn't try the hot sauce because of the previous reviews here that it's really really spicy. A huge portion for $6 is so worth the wait. Try it! You have nothing to lose. ?You don't have to be drunk in order to appreciate the deliciousness of this street food.
my trip to nyc and we had this every single night at 4am, i'm already having withdrawals. amazingg. or drunk & hungry. this sure as hell beats all the taco trucks littering the streets in la
You know a place has good food when after eating a few sandwiches, you bring your microwavable plastics and have these guys filler up with 50 dollars worth of lamb to take home, freeze, and later make your gyro at home whenever your tiny happy heart desires. ? As for the long lines - they move fast. ?Once around 4 am, there were at least 80 to 100 people in line ahead of my friends and I. ?Took about 10 minutes to get the food, and completely worth the 5 bucks.
The best Halal food I've ever had. I love their chicken/lamb combo plate with extra white sauce. This place is a must for anyone visiting NYC and looking for a great cheapeats sort of place.
The meal I would ask for at my execution, to be the absolute last meal on earth. And then die a perfectly happy death. I think everytime I have had this tasty concoction was in a state of mild drunkeness and could have easily contributed to why I usually finish the whole plate. TIPS: 1) Get the combo that has lamb and chicken. 2) HEAVIER on the WHITE sauce, LIGHT on the HOT sauce, I don't care what part of the world you come from, if you value tasting the rest of the meal, and your stomach the next day, you will respect this tip. 3) Take turns to stand in line, especially since it is getting colder, there is a plaza next door to stay warm at. 4) TAKE correct change. They always have plenty, but it makes the experience so much easier $6 for a plate last time I ate there. 5) Don't save left overs, It just doesn't taste the same, you are better off sharing with someone than saving the leftovers. 6) DO NOT try short-cutting by going to the other stand cause the line is shorter. You are missing the whole point if you do. Look for the Yellow shirts and yellow bags. 7) THE only people allowed to cut are the cabbies, if you are not a cabbie, don't try cutting, and if you see a cabbie cutting, let him through. 8) Finally, there aren't too many place to sit and eat around there, so grab a seat around the fountain if you can't contain your hunger and please clean up after yourself. Finally, don't try catching a cab at the hotel, they will chase you away...lesson learn't the hard way.
I don't get this as often as I'd like to anymore because I'm hardly in the area, and I rarely get the chance to venture there. ?But the food is still as delicious as I remember it to be. ?I could bathe in the white sauce, and it would still taste delicious. ?I think they'd be able to market it as an aphrodisiac. To all those people who complain about rude service and the magicians (yes it is magic) being mean, you guys are just slow wimps. ?They have a system, and the idiots complaining about not getting things their way are the ones who slow down everything in this city and make it inconvenient for everyone else. ?You're not tipping them so don't expect them to kiss your ass every time you go. ?Man up, and follow the current, your "everyone should treat me like a king" attitude is greatly unappreciated.
So we went here at like 12am and the line was like 30 people long! We walked a little while getting to this place in the freezing cold, but figured the famous food would be worth it all. Well, turns out all I left with that night was a burnt tongue!! Man, when they put a caution note on that hot sauce, they ain't lyin! Whatever you do, do not drench your plate in it (like I did), or you'll be crying like a little bitch (like I did) no matter how spicy you like your food. I normally like spicy food but this was utterly ridiculous. Anyway, I'm sure the food itself would have been pretty good if not for that fire-sauce, so do yourself a favor and learn from my mistake.
Skeptical to eat from carts. (Where do they wash their hands?) But gave in after a night of partying with a growling belly. The little bits of chicken and lamb with saffron colored rice and white sauce is divine. I know the white sauce probably has a thousand calories per bite. But pour that stuff on baby cause it just ain't right without it. Make sure that you get a little bit of that tangy white sauce on every bite. I've never had the hot sauce but everyone that I know that has had it says it is "very spicy". The type that will leave a mark in the morning, so beware! Don't be fooled by the other carts. This cart arrives promptly at 7 and people start forming a line while they are still unloading. You can also enjoy the same cart across the street on the south east corner of 53rd and 6th for lunch. They usually stay open till late so if there's a line just go across the street. The only thing missing are table and chairs. I might have over exaggerated on the divine but it is mighty tasty.
I started coming here when they only had one cart and the combos were $5. Once the halal guys started getting more business they added a second one right across the street which I keep telling people to go to since the line is shorter and the food is the same. I went back a month ago, my go to guy Ramin who's hooked me up by never having to wait in line apparently no longer works there so I had to wait like everyone else. I probably won't be going back as much since the food is only bearable after a night drinking. Everyone that I've brought here has gotten hooked.. they say its like crack. The yogurt sauce is the best and the hot sauce is extremely spicy so lay off if you can't handle it.
Mixed plate, feeds a family of four, $6. Like many of the previous reviewers noted, you're not dining at Nobu here, don't expect unmatched culinary excellence. ?What you can expect is a ridiculously huge portion of meat over delectable rice at an unbeatable price. ?If you ever pick up a guide on "NYC on X dollars a day," and it doesn't include the Halal cart, it is your moral obligation as a human being to take every last guide off the shelf of that bookstore to burn them immediately so the rest of the population won't suffer. I had it on good authority to come here from a number of sources and was not disappointed. ?I over white-sauced and under hot-sauced, but fantastic nonetheless. ? If you are a foodie on a budget looking for a taste on New York City, you'd be remiss to pass up the HFC.
This cart is awesome. You get a giant plate of meat/rice/salad that is super tasty, convenient (if you're already in midtown), and quality. I've had food from this cart so many times late at night...it's my favorite cart in NYC. Flavors are terrific for being cooked on a street corner, and cart is clean. ?Ditto re the white sauce.... it's the stuff. Next time it's early morning, you're starving, and you're near midtown - hit up Halal.
I don't know what I can say that the other 600+ people haven't said before. ?This is the epitome of great NYC street food and you can't beat the value for $6, which provides enough grub for 2 people. ?The white sauce is a must, and the hot sauce is pretty damn hot. ?The lamb/chicken combo is a good choice. ?Definitely worth the wait.
Whether it's worth the wait or worth a long trip is a judgment call, but it IS the best halal cart (it's not just hype, it's the truth), and I do go out of my way for it when I can. The chicken is good, but you want the lamb. Trust me. And you do NOT have to be drunk to enjoy this. The white sauce is great, but if you go overboard with it, that's what makes people feel not so good later. Use enough to flavor all the food but don't drench it. And just a dab of the hot sauce will do. Do NOT use the BBQ sauce! You do not want BBQ sauce adulterating this deliciousness.
Drunk - It is heaven Next morning leftovers in bed, still damn delicious. 3 nights in New York city, three chicken and rice visits It truly is heaven. By the way, i think i tasted some ginger in that chicken.
Waited in line for about 1/2 an hour. ?SO worth it. ?There was no menu, so we had no idea what to order. ?We just copied everyone else in line who seemed to know what they were doing. ?Mixed Grill it is. ?DO squirt on loads of white sauce. ?We went back to saturate our food with it again. ?Guaranteed you will overeat. ?You may or may not feel guilty afterwards.
Five stars all the way. This place is totally incredible. After walking past the long line many times I decided to see what all the excitement was about. I was in heaven at first bite. You can not go wrong with this place. There is only one cart in NY and this is it. Do not be afraid of the amazing white sauce but use the red sauce with caution because it is like pepper spray hot!!!
WOW! I'll keep it short and simple. Combo platter with white sauce, $5. AWESOME. One peice of advice. I like spicy but not SUPER spicy, get the hot sauce on the side, use 1/3 of the container 1/2 at MOST, otherwise that sensation will dominate the entire meal, but it's still amazing even when that is the case!
I went to this Halal cart on a sunday afternoon with my significant other. The line was short compared to the massive crowd of people we saw the night before. I had heard many good things about this food cart prior to actually trying it myself so I was pretty stoked. I ordered the chicken and lamb over rice with both white and hot sauce. After trying my first bite I was immensely disappointed. The rice was dry, the meat was dry, the side salad was wilted and the sauces were mediocre. Maybe I'm just not a chicken over rice kind of guy, maybe that's just the charm of street food but one thing I know for certain is that I'd probably have to be pretty trashed to enjoy it.
Super tasty. I went at 3am, which is obviously when you're supposed to go someplace like this. No line. Well, almost no line, and yummy food! Well, I ruined the first plate with hot sauce-- I like spicy and I almost died-- but the second go was a win. YUM.
The line was long but moved fast. I didn't like my photo being taken by tourists who were amazed by the 20 people on the line. I've heard it can be much much longer. Ok so I'm going to give this place the low rating for a number of reasons. They are: Lamb was chopped into little itsy bitsy pieces. Like dog food, or taco meat. Pre made trays of rice and salad were cold. Hot sauce was extremely too hot. Guy who took your money was grabby and a bit on the obnoxious side. At least the music wasn't blasting like all the carts on 5th ave. One quiet cart on 5th and 43rd right out side Jam Paper, "Ameera" serves up some Halal with class.
Great halal street meat, but this may come as a shock to the LONG lines of devout followers: it is NOT the best. If you look carefully (astoria comes to mind), you can find better. Also a tip for those who want to go, they have an IDENTICAL cart open across the street, towards 5th avenue. I personally thought this 2nd cart was an imitation until I saw a worker literally walk from one cart to the other. It's the SAME THING, except you get a fraction of the line! This place and I have a long history, so an easy 4 stars here.
McCHICKEN. you get a chicken and rice, heavy with the white sauce and all you taste is a giant mcchicken sandwich. that's right, mcchicken. the dirty truth, people. i'm not saying that's bad, i'm just saying it tastes like a mcchicken.
Not as good as what these 400 reviewers claim it to be. ?Not worth the wait in the cold. If you are comparing this food to the other food carts, then yes I would give it 31/2 to 4 stars. ?But at this price range I think they can cut back on the oiliness and add a little bit more flavor! I had the combo with rice and it was way too greasy and that's what makes it taste good to some people. ?The sauce is creamy, and the meat is oily, I think peanut oil. Now lets talk about pros: Hot sauce is hot and I mean hot, puls it tastes different from other hot sauces I have had. ?But if you over indulge, ?the spiciness and the oiliness of the food don't sit too well in the stomach. ?The meat is halal meat. ?So when you eat it in the open air it won't get that airy chicken, or airy beef taste ( hard to explain this one). ?But its a positive. The white sauce is over rated. ?I have had raps at "great wrap" for the same price with their own white sauce and it beats the bejesus out of this one, hands down!
I work a block away and I've gotten dinner here a couple of times between work and after-work stuff. ?I've only gotten the gyro with mixed meat, extra white sauce, and the tiniest dab of red sauce, and it's great. ?It's a huge amount of food that tastes really good for $4 - you can't beat that in the cheap-good-food desert that is midtown. ? The gyro consists of meat (lamb, chicken, or mixed), lettuce, maybe two little tomato slices, white sauce and spicy red sauce. ?The plates are the same, but not made into a sandwich, and they come with rice that's supposed to be really good too, and they're $6. ?It's best to know exactly what you want and try not to ask questions when you get to the front - these guys are nice, but they have to deal with long-ass lines for whole day, so they'll like you better if you're quick to order.
There was a line of about 15 people in front of me, rain around me of about 1 gallon per square ft per minute. When I got to the front, there were 20 people behind me, 10 gallons per square ft per minute of rain and my suit was soaked through. The guy looked at me and said "Wow, you're really wet" - to which I replied "I heard your food was good". He smiled and handed over my combo plate of drunken food from heaven. I ate 1/4 of it waiting for the subway, another 1/2 when I got home, and the final 1/4 for breakfast. This is the best value street cart in new york.
My first experience with halal carts came back in February 2009 and I was stunned. San Francisco lacks an abundance (well, any) food carts in downtown and to have a delicious, convenient meal prepared for $5 in like 15 seconds was phenomenal. So as I heard more about this cart in particular, I set the bar high. Sadly this bar was not reached. I came here at 4:30 PM then found out that the REAL cart comes out after 7 PM. So I came back closer to 8 PM and found a reasonable line for the food (~20 people deep). As the guy in front of me told me about how often he comes to this place, I eagerly awaited my combo plate with white sauce. I finally reach the front after a quick 10 minute wait and I dig in with a soda all for $6 or 7. Hmm. Where is the supposed flavor? I mean it's nothing more than the other halal carts all over. I went in expecting something extraordinary and got just...ordinary. Sad. But if you do go, prepare for great variety in line size. When I left, the wait was over 50 people... Good marketing job guys!
I'd heard so much about The Cart before I actually went that I feared it wouldn't live up to my expectations. ?Unfortunately, this turned out to be true. ?Don't get me wrong, it was good. ?It just wasn't AMAZING the way I'd been led to believe by various followers. :) ? I got the chicken over rice, and it's definitely good drunk food or if you want a greasy-spoon fix. ?I didn't like the white sauce that much (the bf did, however), but I really liked the red sauce. ?It's very spicy!! ?The chicken was kind of dry, but I tried the bf's lamb/chicken mix and thought the lamb was better. We arrived at 7:40 pm and the line was already about 30-40 people long. ?It moves pretty quickly, though, so we only waited in line maybe 20 minutes or so. ?The two people behind us were both out-of-towners on business, who had made a special trip just to The Cart. ?Truth. ?It also seemed like there were plenty of locals in the line.
The boy wanted to take me out to a nice dinner for my birthday. I picked sushi. We went, we ate, we spent a fortune, and we were still hungry, so we hopped on the subway and headed to midtown. After half an hour in line, we split a combo platter. Doused the plate in white sauce and SPRINKLED it with hot sauce (my first time at this cart I covered every inch of my plate in hot sauce. I totally deserved the pain that followed, but come on, it's just evil for them to put the hot sauce out self-service style like that, right? I cried for like 20 minutes, both out of pain and remorse...) Best birthday dinner ever :)
Maybe this place was hyped up too much by my friends. ?I was expecting heaven on earth - came here past 2am but there was still a huge line. ?Luckily it moved quickly. ?Tried a friend's dish but I just didn't find it that satisfying. ?The spicy sauce was toooo spicy, even for me.
:)P *slurp* Chicken-and-Rice instructions: ? ?Line up. Buy it. Sauce it. Eat it. ? ?Drink some water. Gotta Love it. Chicken-and-Rice Warnings: ? 1) Don't put too much red sauce, or else you WILL die. It's red for a reason. ? 2) Look at the hours. Go after 7:30pm. It's different during the day. ? 3) Don't forget to put white sauce! it helps calm the red sauce. ? 4) Cash only! $6. // (But bring $12 to get one for tomorrow.) ? 5) Not for vegetarians. (What, you just want the rice and sauce?) Additional miscellany: the lamb is delish*. Get "mixed". ..OK, you're good to go :)
So my sister tells me about this place and all the goodness it is....and let me tell you...WOW... this is sooooo good...great place. ?White sauce is just to die for... almost as good as La Vicks orange sauce. ?The meats are great, lots of flavor and so juicy....pita bread was perfect. ?If you are at NYC you HAVE TO GO HERE!!! ? Great amount of food for a great price.
Halal we indeed meet again and you confirmed this place has some good food! Get both sauces!
Lamb over rice with the white and hot sauce. ?Amazingly good stuff, but that hot sauce is ridiculous. ?It's nuclear and should be a controlled substance.
I love going to this place! ?I work about 15 blocks away, but I try to walk there at least once a week for lunch. ?The lamb platter with white sauce and hot sauce is to die for! ?It's cheap, fast, and really convenient! ?Definately once of my favorite spots in Manhattan.
It looks like we have a few haters writing reviews here... I have no complaints when it comes to this place; great food, great price, and convenient. ?When I used to work at the Apple store on 59th and 5th I would RUN over here on my break to scarf down the most affordably delicious meal in the area. ?The owners and gentlemen working here are great guys as well. For anyone who says "what is the big deal?", just go across/down the street and try the other vendors; if you can't tell the difference then you have no taste buds. ?You can also go to a proper restaurant and pay twice as much (+ tip) for something that is not likely to taste as good. ?I rest my case.
This is the best halal food cart I've had in NYC and it was worth the hour wait. ?I had the food before on my previous trip to NYC and it was cold and still tasted hella good, but having it fresh and warm made it orgasmic! ?It is NOT OVERATED!!! ?Definitely check it out, $6 for a huge plate of chicken, lamb, lettuce, and rice...so freakin good!
Wait was a bit annoying, but I had high hopes... I opted for the lamb, and when asked if I wanted hot sauce, I of course said yes. ?Big mistake. ?The sauce was so spicy as to make it inedible... and I love spicy food. ?A few hours later, it hit me and I ended up sitting on the toilet for quite some time. ?I don't know if it's just the spice or the quality of the street meat, but I don't care to know... I will not put myself through that again. ?2 stars only because the non-spicy parts were tasty going into my belly.
Mix plate with rice. The white sauce was amazing with the chicken and lamb. The line was a bit long, but definitely worth the wait.
I wait in line for this food as often as I can. At first I couldn't really compare the cart to any other street meat, but it was seriously really good. People say that the cart isn't open until 7:30pm. I sat around at 6pm and waited until 6:45pm before I gave up and just ate the fake 53rd and 6th street meat. It was still good, but not as good as the 7:30pm cart. I've tried to steal the white sauce ?numerous times. I end up just loading up on the to go containers when they aren't looking. I love love love hot sauce. Their hot sauce is serious. My roommate and I call the aftermath the "ring of fire". We feel awful for at least 2-3 days after wards but it is worth it. It just doesn't taste as good without it.
Lamb and Chicken over rice!! Simply scrumptious. It reminds me of eating from the carts in Taiwan!! It was still sprinkling this afternoon and we stood in line for about 15 minutes. The workers are extremely quick with the orders. They are friendly, but overall the food is delicious and cheap!! $6.00 for a plate could definitely fill you up!! Make sure to get the white sauce and the red sauce. I asked for extra red sauce to make it spicier, but the guy said that he'll give it to me on the side because it's really spicy. The red sauce is very spicy but is so good. Also make sure to get extra white sauce. Lesson learned. I'll be heading over here again before I leave!! Make sure to carry correct change, it makes it much easier. Also Cash ONLY!! There are many halal imposters around the area, so just make sure to look for the one with the long line!! This place is YUMMY!!
This will be short and sweet. The food is slightly better than other Halal carts. The guys are as efficient as they can be, but a 1 hour wait during the day for Halal food? This is too much!
Soooooooooooooo bomb!!!!!!!!!! I'm glad I did my research before I visited NY because I knew exactly where to find this cart. White sauce is awesome, but the hot sauce is super duper crazy hot, and not in a good way. On my next visit to the cart, I will NOT be adding any of the hot sauce. My advice for first timers is to add a little bit to the side and try it first. So good, perfect late night eat! Circle tins! NOT the rectangle ones!
I love the red sauce, can anyone tell me what it is?
I got a quick lunch from here with one of my coworkers today. ?I had the chicken and rice with white sauce and a piece of pita bread but no salad. ?I ate so much it made my back hurt. ?$5.00. Photo - static.px.yelp.com/photo?
Apparently, in three days and two nights, one can make three trips to the cart because if you stand in line, this cart just keeps on giving! ?While waiting the first time, as I hauled around my, literally, frozen ass (I'm from California, we get cold when weather is in the 50s/60s), I thought, "The things I do for food." ?Honestly, I could not feel my feet and I exhaled clouds of chill. ?Finally, it was my turn and I stretched out my gloved hands like a Charles Dickens orphan. ?My eyes eagerly surveyed the platter of moist, tenderized chicken, and lettuce, bed of seasoned rice, and glistening sauces. ?Oh man, the food was warm and wicked delicious. ?I returned two more times with friends and we wolfed it all down each time, though truth be told, I was getting tired of it, but I bore of stuff rather quickly. ?But, everyone needs to try the white sauce before they meet their maker. ?It is unbelievably tasty. ?It tastes like creamy garlic with some other spices, but that's just a description. ?It must be consumed. ?It is lipsmacking tasty. ?The spicy sauce, on the other hand, is a crazy ninja. ?It is a tad evil because on one night, I thought my mouth was on fire. ?But, it was cool since the rest of me was an Asian popsicle. ?They must load that bastard up with "hot damn" spices because it essentially tastes like harissa, but harissa does not normally have that flay-your-tongue whipping kick to it. ?There is no seating, obviously. ?Do your best to huddle and feed yourself or some folks do the Asian crouch, like my grams does when she is making kimchi. ?Finally, the line is insane. ?At all hours. ?I walked by the cart during the day and people lined up just as they would after a long night of booze, dancing, and naughtiness, or in my case, hungry in hotel thus prowling the streets for food.
I vividly remember eating here last summer when I visited NY. At first, I was a bit skeptical considering I was about to get my dinner from a tiny cart on a corner of a sidewalk, but surprisingly, a $6 platter filled with tender meats, spicy sauces, and rice was the best thing I've had on earth! I think everyone in the world should try Halal. It is magically delicious! Now if only there were Halal stands in SF... Note: If you're not into spicy food, ask them to lay off on the sauce for it is super spicy.
I can't believe how good their chicken and lamb over rice is. ? I ate 1/2 of the container after having a 3 hour dinner at a sit down restaurant that involved too many courses to count. ?I thought I was going to explode, but I couldn't stop eating because the chicken and lamb with the white sauce was so good. Don't get scared off too much by the line. ?It moves pretty quick.
Usually get lamb over rice w/ white sauce.. - Food is great (but could be influenced by alcohol :D) - The line can be ridiculous at times - I usually get home between 4 - 5 am because of this place!! LOL
After trying the Biriyani Cart, I have to now say that 53rd and 6th only gets 4 stars for portions and the convenience of a second cart that branches out across the street (on the SE corner) to cope with intense demand. Surprisingly, few people realize this despite how many times it had been pointed out by Yelpers. As for the quality of the food, the tasty flavors of the Biriyani Cart on 46th and 6th has provided me with the epiphany of how bland and dry the chicken and lamb combo over rice actually is (especially the chicken) here. But I still can't take off a star as generous portions and convenience are qualities you can't overlook when it comes to street meat.
Don't be confused by the imitators. ?The original and true Halal Cart is the one in front of the Hilton on the SW corner of 53rd St. & 6th Ave. ?They don't set up until 7:30pm. ?The daytime vendors are different. ?Look for the yellow hoodies that say halalguys.com and 53rdand6th.com. ?Get the half chicken, half lamb, over rice -- delicious. ?Like everyone else has said, the white sauce is bomb and the red sauce is pretty damn hot sauce.
I am SO LET DOWN!. ?Was anticipating this food for a looooong time, finally decided to give it a try, after patiently and eagerly waiting - bought two just bc everyone says how good it is that you should buy an extra one. ?YUCK. ?Not even just - 'now wowed' truly - yuck. ?The chicken tasted 'chickeny' not yummy and well seasoned and definitely not special in anyway. ?The lamb was crumbles not slices and was like boring chopped meat. ?NOW I am positive was at the right cart, the line was long as expected and I am a genuine foodie - far more concerned about taste and quality then getting good deal - this food was so bad I am mystified what all of this raving is about! ?Is it just because it is cheap and that is what motivates? ?Eww. ?I am so sad because I love a good find - yummy food is the best. ?THIS IS NOT YUMMY FOOD. ?NEVER again. ?And goodness, I cannot imagine who is writing these reviews. ?Is someone generating them? ?Gag.
The Food lived up to the Hype; The hot sauce is really HOT!!!
This review is for the daytime cart on the SE corner of 53rd St. & 6th. Now, these guys are supposed to be the brothers of the same guys who make the famous combo plate from the famous Chicken & Rice Cart on the SW Corner of 53rd & 6th at night, with the 300 person line. Yes, lots of them claim to be brothers of that same guy. But these guys (yellow jackets, motto: "We Are Different" and "We are the Halal Guys") have the same yellow plastic bags, same containers, and same method of dishing the sauces in individual packages. I think the myth is true. Their hot sauce is the ear-ringing, pain-inducing type; and I can eat SPICY. Combo of gyro over rice is $5. Sweet bang for your buck around lunch time. Skip that horrendous line at night. Pros: great price, fast service, some serious food Cons: your clothes will smell from just standing in line, hard to spot the cart among the sea of halal carts on 53rd and 6th
i like chicken and rice. but i don know why people treat this cart like its soo special. yes it is better then some places but they serve the exact same thing. ive tried other carts that do outshine this one. in the end when your getting the same exact thing the defining moment is the service. these people fail at that. p.s. i hate to pop ur balloon but the reason why hastily prepared chicken and subpar rice tastes soo awesome is because it gets drenched in high fat sauce. your literally ingesting about a days worth of calories and fat. go ahead. try that ?same legendary cart but without the sauce. if u dont spit it out ur a saint
I asked my buddy in NYC to take me to some authentic New Yorkan food. ?He told me we were getting $7 food at a cart on a random corner near 30 Rock. ?A tiny bit suspect...sure. ?Especially with the dozens of food carts I'd seen walking around. ?But hell, he's the one who lives here... Apparently it isn't a random corner cart. ?The corner has it's own website. ?There was a line at least 20 people deep when we arrived, which was a short one, from what I was told. ?And the food was pretty sublime. ?I'm a big lamb fan, and this joint did not disappoint. ?I went with the lamb and chicken combo, and while I regret not getting just lamb, it was still great. ?Almost like eating a tub of gyro, with some of the most blazingly hot hot sauce ever. The people working couple nights ago seemed really distracted, and while I wasn't expecting pleasantries from dudes working outside in a cart, apparently they were pretty rude that night. ?At least we only dealt with them for as long as it took to get food handed to us.
"I know it's white, but here comes the hot sauce" -- Cam'ron.
The halal cart is somewhat of a phenomenon in NYC since they are practically on every block and I can see why people love them so much! The 53rd and 6th cart is one I have visited on several occasions. It's cheap, fast, open super late, filling, and really freaking good! I've had both the chicken and lamb plates but prefer the chicken since the lamb was diced up a bit too much for my liking. Both tasted wonderful though and they definitely didn't skimp on the meat. The plates typically come with your choice of meat, seasoned basmati rice, a bed of cut lettuce, several pieces of pita bread, and of course the white and red sauces on the side. (lamb plate - yelp.com/biz_photos/xEnN?) The white sauce, which tasted like a mix of ranch/tzatziki, added some moisture and zing to the plate. Be careful of the red sauce though because it was SUPER SPICY...a little goes a long way so you don't burn your mouth! The rice was really flavorful and went great with the sauces. The pita was also warm and soft...yum! With all this said, $6 for a heaping pile of deliciousness is worth the wait in a long line. This is a popular joint so be smart and cross the street to the other halal cart...it's the same thing but the line is short!
At first, I stayed away from these carts because they always seem to try and get you to buy their food... ?kind of annoying. But one day I was just so hungry and it smelled so good that I just gave in... and I'm so glad I did. There was no line when I was there, only about 3 other people. It was pretty fun to watch. The guy scraped off gyro meat, threw in big ass broccoli and chopped it all up on the grill. I chose the spicy rice and gyro meat, and the guy asked if I wanted the white sauce, so I just said sure... After I took my first bite and mixing it altogether... I wanted a bathtub full of it. The lettuce switches up the taste pretty well, from salty and hot to crisp and cool. Suddenly, I feel like buying a plane ticket to NY just to go get some now. O_O
Seriously...what is the big deal? It's not bad...it's just not...amazing, awesome, great, excellent like everyone says it is. Sure, it's a lot of food (decent food) for $6. ?So cheap, decent food = awesome now? The line wasn't too long when we arrived...we probably waited about 15 minutes for our food (it was earlier in the evening, about 8 pm). ?We got plenty of white sauce and hot sauce for the bowl and were so excited to eat since EVERYONE had told us that we had to try this place in NY! It was just OK. ?Overrated.
Street food at it's best! ?Out of all the food I conquered while visiting NYC, this halal cart offered some of the tastiest and cheapest food I ate the whole trip. The chicken is good, but I definitely prefer the lamb. ?Mix it up with flavorful rice, lettuce, plenty of white sauce, a drizzle of hot sauce, and a side of pita, and you've got the most amazing pile of goodness you'll ever get off the street! ?After inhaling just about everything, I instantly had one of the most intense food comas ever. ?Totally worth it though. Oh boy... salivation and self-induced hunger are suddenly taking over... I better stop soon. ?Let me just say this... If you're on a trip to Manhattan, don't you dare leave the city without stopping by.
53rd and 6th WAS good. I've been eating there since 2002 and the quality has diminished noticeably. Due to the increased popularity, the chefs have focused on speed and efficiency rather than taste and value. - Portions are smaller - Meat isn't cooked properly (chicken is rubbery and lamb has a boiled/steamed texture) - White sauce is now mayo-based, making the food astoundingly unhealthy (I know health isn't a concern at 3:30 AM when you're drunk, but still) - Hot sauce was tangy and spicy (the good kind), now it's just over-concentrated and spicy (the bad kind) - You used to get an entire pita, now you're lucky if you get half - The rice is tasteless, and needs to be cooked with some real Middle-Eastern spices like other halal carts do True, Halal is a great when you're drunk and shoveling spoonfuls of rice, meat, lettuce, and sauce into your mouth is the second best thing to do when you're drunk, but overall it's nothing but drunk-food. It simply dominates the midnight-and-beyond time frame. I may be yearning for times of the past, and rising costs and decreased quality are imminent, but the food is far from perfect, and many better meals are out there for $7.
Was worth standing in line for 20 mins today.... Delicious.
STREET MEAT... Hundreds of reviews can not be wrong...the easiest way to find the cart is to look for the Hilton on Avenue of America - across the street will be a cart with a line. ?It does not matter what time of the day or season, the line will give it away! My recommendation is to get the mixed meat (lamb and chicken on rice, lettuce) and sauces - white creamy sauce and the red hot, spicy one. For the price, $7, food can not be beat! ?In a city known for high prices, STREET MEAT is a definite winner! I usually get it to go so that I can get a bier from one of the many delis and eat the STREET MEAT in the comfort of my hotel room. ?HALAL, shamal, I that I know is that its good stuff...
It was very addicting and only 6 dollars for a whole lot of food. Granted, it was probably just unhealthy enough to decrease my lifespan by a year, but I don't think you can do better as far as late-night munchies go.
It's 15 degrees out at 3 AM on a Sunday morning. Windchill makes it feel like its -5 degrees. As crazy as it sounds, after a night of boozing, I want some Chicken and Rice. And as I approach the cart, I realize that 200 other people have the same crazy notion! The wait was 45 minutes, everyone's shivering, lips are all blue, but the cold is nothing compared to the anticipation of eating that delicious, and FRESH chicken, lamb and rice dish with the best white sauce ever and one of the deadliest hot sauces around. ?Fresh is key because with these carts and their "mystery meat", you don't know what you're going to get. ?But this one always tastes like it was just put on the grill, and it's less greasy on the palate too. ?Though I'm pretty sure it's just as bad for you.
If you're ever down on money and big on portions, you have to come here. ?Otherwise, still come here because the food tastes amazing. ?Granted, it isn't the healthiest for you but the lamb and chicken combined with the rice, salad, and especially the white sauce will definitely make you forget about all that. ? I like the lamb more than the chicken because I think it's juicier but since I haven't had the chicken in a while I think I'll have to go try it out again. ?If you do want to put on some hot sauce, make sure not to put on too much. ?I've seen many a people pour on the hot sauce like they had no taste buds and put out this expression that I can only describe as "painful." ? Now for $6, you'll get a huge platter of lamb or chicken (or both), pita, salad, and rice and you can have that either open or they'll pack it for you to go. ?Sometimes they'll just hand it to you when you want it to go and the one time that happened to me, I tried putting the lid on with no success. ?Fortunately, the big guy with the beard saw me, laughed and helped me out. ?They have my business forever. ?These guys are living the life, that's for sure. ? Don't forget the white sauce, be generous.
This was my second trip to NYC after 10 years and it was probably one of the best times I had. We stayed around Time Square so getting to the Halal Cart wasn't bad. I think we had Halal all 3 nights (late night snacking) we stayed in NY. That's how good it was! ? So, If you make a trip to NYC make sure to stop by 53rd and 6th! ?because it'll be worth it !!! ? Just be careful because the HOT SAUCE its EXTREMELY SPICY! and also ask for extra white sauce!!!!! :) We need one in So Cal!
six bucks and it is a huge amount of food. i got the chicken bowl... with the "white sauce" (its ranch people) and a tiny bit of hot sauce... it is crazy hot. delicious!
They say it's the best Halal cart in NY and boy they weren't kidding. I was fortunate enough to come during a time of day where the line wasn't so crazy. Only about 10 people ahead of me and they work fast so it wasn't too bad at all. I ordered the Lamb/Chicken over rice plate. For $6 bucks and the amount that is given to you. It's pretty good value. "Would you like spicy?" "Yes please, only a little bit." He goes on to squirt two drops of the red stuff. I think to myself, "Hmmm, is that enough? Will I even taste anything?" YES IT WAS ENOUGH. Hahahahah I'm weak sauce when it comes to eating spicy stuff, but those two drops were enough to put it at a perfect place for me. So beware, the sauce is suuuper spicy! This will definitely be one of the things I will miss the most about NY.
I'm sorry, I don't know what some of you guys are talking about - this place is the shit. ?Especially at 4am when you're swaying on line, waiting for this deliciousness to soak up all the alcohol you just consumed. ?And yes, I've had it sober too, and it's just as good. ?Granted it's very basic - just chicken, rice, lettuce, white sauce, and hot sauce. ?There's something about it, I don't know what it is, it's just effin good. I admit, I sometimes wake up the next morning and ask myself why I inhaled a whole plate of halal at 4am, but it doesn't stop me from doing it again. And again. I'm salivating as I write this.
Yet again. The HALAL CART FROM HEAVEN! Yes, of course I visited again.....for the 829889347824093427th time! Still the same YUMMY combo rice with chicken and lamb, extra hot sauce, extra yogurt sauce, please! Still $6, and still a fat line stretching down the block. I guess this is the one thing you hope never changes - the best food, for the cheapest price! I LOVE HALAL!
A buddy of mine hyped this up all day and we finally checked it out. It definitely met expectations and was pretty yummy. For me, it was good drunk food. As a warning, the hot sauce is extremely spicy. Was coughing like crazy while trying some.
buuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuurp! 'scuse me. tastes better the second time... +1 star!
Can never get enough of the food here! ?First learned about it after a long night of drinking a few years back, and I thought it wouldn't pass the sober test, but it did in spades! A few notes: -Unless you grew up with a habanero pepper as a pacifier, go easy on the hot sauce your first time. ?The tiny little container they give you gives the plate a pretty mightly kick. -If you're craving it for lunch, note that they're not in the same location during the day as they are at night. ?During the day, they're on the SE corner of 53rd/6th as opposed to SW. ?Somehow the vendor on the other side during the day has capitalized on copying everything about the original and gets the long lines during the day. -Don't cut in line, someone got stabbed for doing that. ?Yea..it's that good.
+ Real quick service. + Best place to buy chicken rice platter. [chicken chunks over yellow rice + lettuce + strips of pita bread] + Reasonable cost [6 bucks] + Typical white sauce. + Smoking hot super pungent Red sauce, so just add 2-3 small drops of it.... infact beware of the red sauce at all mediterranean spots... its hot everywhere. + Long lines even on midnites.... yea its a very busy cart run by friendly Arabic guys. + Even cops takeout deliveries from here. + Pleasant fountainside location.
How do these places stay in business, food doesn't look too sanitary especially if it is sitting on the side, not being kept warm. ? Well we ordered the chicken skewer and the chicken wrap. ?The wrap was not bad but the chicken skewer was horrible. ?The chicken on the skewer was still cold in the center but we didn't realize it until we ate into it. ?The chicken was also hard and dry. After throwing away about half the skewer, later that night my stomach started feeling queezy, and I had the runs. ? I would not eat at this cart or any cart again.
eh, i would take a Rafiqi cart over this one anyday
What is it about a food cart that gets people oooohing and aahhhhhing?! ? Me no get it. It's tough steak that has been undercooked an hour ago, and then re-heated/de-ecoli-ized/charred after you order it.. but still undercooked on the inside. ?And it also happens to be tough, even at rare. :- / And let's not even mention the massive amounts of fat on each tough piece of "steak". ? And and and.. ?the fact that the same guy you pay and who touches money, is also making your food. ?And I didn't see Purell anywhere in sight. Some of the guys are nice.., some aren't. ?But I don't go to a cart expecting anything good or bad of the service.
I heart this place very much. It all started 4 yrs ago a night in July 2005, when an exbf of mine had taken me here. Ever since then it was love at first bite. I will go out of my way at times to eat their street meat. It's awesome and still baffles my mind as to why no one goes across the street the empty street meat vendor. I usually get their chicken gyro with hot sauce and tzaiki sauce- they've never disappointed me. FYI: this place ALWAYS has a line even at 2 am. So be prepared to wait. bon appetit!
I've had many halal in my time but as much as I'd like to, I don't think I would five star this. In terms of value, you get damn full for $6.50 but the halal isn't mindblowing enough to justify the super long line (I'm never waiting on the long line anymore;gonna go to 52nd st instead). The lamb is way way delicious. Succulent and some crispy parts to it make it my choice over the chicken. People really seem to like the chicken and I feel like its the more popular choice but to me, it just seems like 'chicken' when I eat it. Basically, I always am conflicted between getting lamb on rice or combo on rice and whenever i opt for the combo, I wish I had gotten the lamb. The white sauce is INCREDIBLE. I would baptize a baby in that white stuff. Hot sauce is insanely hot and should only beat eaten by spicy-experts. Also, white sauce with bbq sauce is an awesome combo and needs to be tried.
After seeing the rave reviews, my boyfriend and I decided to find this famous cart after our Broadway show. ?We looked for the yellow bags with the red writing. A few blocks later in the freezing snow, we found the semi-long line in front of the Hilton. ?We ordered the combo plate, which consisted of chicken+lamb, rice, salad, and pita bread, and we also bought another order of the chicken plate (which was the same as the aforementioned, but without the lamb). ?We took our food home and began drenching the food in the white sauce. ?My boyfriend experimented with the hot sauce, which he found to be pretty spicy... and I almost cried after licking a tiny bit of it from my spoon. ?It burns, it burns! I'll have to say that it did not meet my expectations. ?It really did just taste like chicken and rice with pita bread and salad -- nothing too spectacular that was worth the long line (it wasn't really a long wait, but just a lot of people in front of us). ?The white sauce is really what makes the food good. ?Don't get me wrong, though -- we liked it. ?It just wasn't AWESOME. ?My boyfriend ate his lamb and chicken plate the day after and said it wasn't all that great anymore (but he said it was because he wasn't sharing with me, as I was on my way home to California). ?Awwww. ?Food tastes so much better when I'm around, apparently. ;) Lots of food for a decent price. ?I wouldn't go out of my way to get it, though.
What can I say? This is the beauty of New York City street eats at it's best. I am an Indian and obviously I love biriyani. Well this biriyani-esqe plate really hits the spot late at night. Buttery biriyani rice, marinated grilled seasoned chicken (you can mix it with lamb for an even better feast), a signature yogurt sauce, a SUPER SPICY HOT SAUCE YOU SHOULD USE CAUTIOUSLY....all that fresh goodness packed into a reheatable aluminum tray that you can eat out of standing there like a drunk idiot and save the leftovers for the next day? Wow. Amazing. And that food in NYC, for $6. Wow, at least there's a few things with good value in NYC - and this is one of them. At the end of a night of clubbing - given the weather is ok - you will find a super long line of people and among them strong numbers of Desis (South Asians) too. If the weather is crappy, there will probably still be a long line just cause the food is that good. I probably praise this spot more so because I am from out of town and only have it on rare occasion. If I was a tri-state native that partied in NYC every month - I would probably only get it a couple times a year.
Know the drill & move quickly. ?Lamb & chicken combo over rice with some pita for $6 and its good? ?Hard to argue with that. ?I needed mine to go, but didn't think you needed to say that when its a CART! and there are no seats, but enough people just set up shop right around the cart that you do need to actually specify if your order is to go or not. ?The lamb is so good & tasty, I'm tempted to just order that the next time around, but the contrast between the two is pretty damn good.
i eat the combo with white sauce and drop 2 drops of hot sauce on top. ?any more hot sauce and you're asking for a bleeding ulcer and eventual colonoscopy. ? i frequently come here after work, better on weekdays when there's no line. ?on weekends i don't come here because usually by that time of night i can't wait in long lines thanks to mr etoh and my vasopressin sensitivity.
Who would have thought that a cart would actually have an address and an entry on Yelp, that over 400 yelpers would want to review this place. But now you know why. Among the halal eaters, and students this place is of legendary status, which comes up in conversations when you talk about desi/halal food in NYC. people drive from Brooklyn, Queens etc with their families for this Gem of a place. First of all it has enough room to house over a hundred people who don't mind waiting in line. plus its right on 6th and 53rd so have enough attractions around to take the families too. You make friends while standing in the line waiting your turn, as you have enough bonding time with each other. Average wait that I have experienced is 15-20 minutes. Once you get to the stand, you have pretty much forgotten why you are there and its like a religions experience asking the tall guy with the beard what you would like to order. The most popular dishes are the Chicken and or Lamb platter which can also be combined. There is yellow aromatic rice, with salad and a side of a special White sauce and a deadly red sauce that you could clean your driveway with. The food is consistently good, and for 6 bucks it can't get any better Only Issue is parking is always a challenge, so you may have to spend some extra time looking for one. No time is a good time as this place is "lined-up" even at 1am in the morning
I want to go back to NYC just for this! ?My mouth waters just thinking about the awesome late night grub. ?I've heard the rumors, but never thought much of them. ?Finally, on my latest trip to NYC, I visited the so-called famous chicken and rice cart on 53rd. ?BEST meal I've had in NY hands down! ?I don't know what they put in it, but it has got to be one of the best tasting foods in town. ?The hot sauce is comparable to LA's famed El Taurino sauce, minus El Taurino's garlic flavoring. ?Til next time.....
Lines around the block for a street cart?!?! They must be the envy of all the Halal carts in NYC... But YES so delicious...my mouth was watering by the time we go to the front. 4 guys working the street cart..handing out dishes with lightening speed. It's a rush! and the food...so delicious. check it out..youll see tons of people waiting and sitting around afterwards to enjoy the hot food. Beware of the hot sauce, good but spicy! I just wish they gave more lamb and less chicken...
I had to calm down before writing this, as I didn't want my fit of rage to cloud the objectivity of this review. ? Food would be 2.5 stars at the max. ?The rice was cooked well, but the chicken was dry. ?The yogurt sauce and the hot sauce added necessary flavor, but not enough. ?Critical point: ?A half hour after I ate this, on the drive back to the office, I began to have a massive headache, the chills, and uncontrollable trembling. ?Not fully understanding what the hell was going on, I took some Advil, since there was no way I could miss work for the day. ?The Advil seemed to help and I called my doctor just to be safe, and he said it was probably a mild case of foodborne illness from improperly handled dairy product (yea, I hadn't even mentioned to him that my lunch was smothered with yogurt sauce). ?Luckily anything that acts that fast is usually a mild case and not much to worry about, but I could have gone all day without that. ?This was the first time I had eaten all day, so it wasn't any other food, nor was any food from the day prior held suspect. ?And it definitely wasn't my own body causing this reaction. Look at my picture -- do I look like the type of person who can't handle Middle Eastern food?
We stayed at the hilton right on this corner and every evening we saw this HUGE line of people at this cart. The funny thing is there's another cart just across the street selling the same stuff and there was no customers at the other cart. Intrigued, I went on to Yelp to see what the fuss was about. It was worth the wait in line. Really good and really fresh food. The white sauce is good and I avoided the red sauce for fear of ruining the food with too much spiciness. We already had dinner so for us it was a late night snack. We got half & half (half chicken half goat) and one bowl was just enough for both of us.
Everyone I knew talked about this cart and how good the food was when I came to NY and how they have the claim to fame. However whenever I attempted to eat their for years it was always to busy for me to wait. When I finally ate here I couldnt' understand what all the fuss was about. I think anyone who gives this cart a high rating is wrapped up in the hype. So many other great Halal carts in NY and Queens. I heard they did used to make their food like everyone else but now they bring in dry white meat chicken over seasoned with to much black pepper and nothing else. It isn't even cooked on the grill it's just warmed there. The rice is flavorless and nothing special. The hot sauce I'm guessing is made from harissa and it's soooo hot even for a spice lover like me. I think they aim to keep costs down by using a burn your ass hot sauce in place of having to actually season the food. They sold out and have customers because of hype and a really great spot. I hope people don't think this food actually represents Egyptian cuisine.
there is no doubt in my mind that of all the lamb and chicken over rice dishes ive had in my day, this is the best. the lines are brutal, and i've nearly paid people off to let me cut them (refrained.. but oh so grudgingly), ?but once you get it, the memory of the long line fades into distant memory. in its place is the taste of protein salty heaven in my mouth. extra white sauce, a pita on the side.. and go regular on the hot sauce. i made the mistake of ordering extra hot sauce (im korean. thought i could handle it).. and though i ate the whole thing, my mouth was on FIRE.. and my stomach the next day was not in the best shape. remember.. during the day, the guys in this spot are not the same guys as the infamous guys who are there at night! dont be fooled!!!!
Luckily this place was already on our list of go-to food places for our trip to NYC from a couple of friends who had raved about the cart.. and let me tell you it was well damn worth it!!! First night we came by we already saw a long line and it was actually a couple of blocks down from our hotel room... and there's an even closer one near 56th and 7th.. but I forget which exact street it was on.. I'm guessing more people know about the one on 53rd?? We all ordered the special combo w/ chicken and lamb over rice and pita bread.. and had devoured everything in a nearby hallway to the stand.. my friends probably came here almost every night for some late night munchies since it's open till 4am everyday! You must get the white sauce and hot sauce to go.. but a little warning that the hot sauce is really HOT!!! I really wanted to get some to go in some tupperware and bring it back home but by that time they were closed :( I'll definitely be making a stop here next time I come back to NYC.
Nothing new in this review other than what everyone else has been saying. This place is never a hit or miss. It's always a hit! The line could get pretty long (especially on a weekend late night) but its definitely worth the wait! If you don't want to wait in line (Especially now with the cold winter coming in), you could visit the location early (7PM)! You could mix the meat from Chicken and Lamb over rice to just Chicken or just Lamb etc. What a combination! Chicken+Lamb+Salad+Pita with some white/red sauce combo. Just makes my mouth water just thinking about it. I've heard that the cart across the street (East Side) is owned by the same owner. I'm not sure how true this is but I've seen them transfer supplies from one cart to another, use the same bags, and the lines are way shorter (if there is one). I went to both and they seem very similar. If you do not want to wait in the line, you could get the same deal right across the street!
Get the chicken and rice plate. A lil white sauce, a lil hot sauwce. A lot of napkins. Enjoy. Seriously the best halal cuisine this side of Mecca. From a freaking cart. Across the street from the Hilton. I had to slap myself a couple times to make sure this experience was real. I was freezing standing in line outside at 10 pm on a New York February evening but man it was soo worth it. If you ever visit Times Square, travel a couple dozen blocks north and hit up this place. It seriously will not disappoint. I would have given this place 8 stars if I could.
Famous food cart on the southwest corner of this intersection, always has a loyal following and long lines no matter what time of night. Over the past few years they continue to streamline the process, so the wait is down to hardly anything many times.
I was introduced the the famous "chicken and rice" spot by a few friends from school. On my first trip, I was conned into eating at the daytime cart. Granted, it was good, but not the same as the real cart after 7:30pm. I am proud yet ashamed to admit I have eaten at both the night cart and the day cart (across the street by the cbs building) over 50 times... Overkill? Maybe. Delicious? Of course. For all the first timers, enjoy your first plate. Savor that experience and cherish it because chicken and rice (the platter) will never taste as good, ever. You see, the more you eat this stuff, the less satisfaction you get from the same platter. I am now convinced that this is CRACK & RICE. You need more and more each time to get the same high as your first plate. Eventually, you overdose and eat it too much (like i did) followed by infrequent, spontaneous relapses. Highly Recommended but be prepared to enroll in a 12 - Step program.
Nothing to see here. ?It's all been said at this point. ?I just have to throw my hat into the ring. ?The unquestionable best source for a food that I like gets an automatic 5 star. ?Be it the lamb, the chicken, the white sauce, or the hot sauce (all 5 drops of it you need), this place has the best. Only way it could be better was if the rice were improved. ?A few of the best XPL carts have better rice. ? Water Refill Meter: N/A Cart...
Mixed meat with rice, a little salad and a piece of pita with white and spicy sauce for $5. All of the meat was all well seasoned, tender and nicely prepared. The portion generous and the food delicious. One of the best meals I have had in this country for $5.... A true NYC experience and definitely worth the wait. Will return.
my favorite food in NY. ?Im always craving for chicken with rice. ?Whenever i come to NY, i always have to get it. ?it's a must! ?it's only 5 dollars for one huge booty bowl. ?the line is pretty long but it's worth it. ?the hot sauce is really spicy so be careful if you pour that shizz on your food.
YUM! I had the chicken and rice sober and it was friggin delicious. I can't imagine how heavenly it'd be if I were drunk. They give you a huge portion for $6. I could be totally happy eating this for lunch or as a late night meal. This is definitely a place to try if you are ever in NYC.
People, it's just a food cart !!! Come on already. Got out of a Comedy Central Special taping in Union Square Theatre and starting walking toward 23rd instead of 14th. Turned out to be a bad move as far as optimal subway stop connections. Came this far so I decided to just hoof it. Rain was threatening which made the late night walk home that much more exciting. Thoughts of the halal cart started floating across my mind. It was well past 11 and I was feeling really tired and was doing some intense walking. Surprisingly, I decided to walk an extra 10 blocks out of my way to get some sidewalk lamb goodness. Didn't get a chance to grab dinner before waiting an hour and a half to get in to see Greg Giraldo. A little drizzle. Almost midnight. Quick lamb and go. Had the plan. Get to the cart and found 30 people on line waiting for halal cart. At midnight! What are you people thinking??? I walked past 20+ carts on the way here. Most were standing around idly, waiting to serve any takers. This is a food cart. It's processed gyro meat. Please get out of line so that I can get me some lamb quickly, when I'm in the area. Especially when I walk ?34 blocks from Union Square I don't want to wait behind 30 of your sad souls to get my gyro lamb fix. Come on. Get over it people. It a cart for goodness sake. This time I got the white sauce: yogurt, cucumber, and mayo. I would prefer it without any mayo in it ?(if I had it my way) and the hot sauce. The last time had just the hot sauce without the white sauce. Lost massive nose hairs that time. Beware the hot sauce is hot. These guys are generous; with the meat, and with the sauce. My ideal would be lamb with cucumber and yogurt sauce (no mayo in white sauce please) and a dash of hot sauce. But alas this is just a food cart. I've had better, but at midnight the options are limited. Great cheap, but not quick, sidewalk food at almost any hour of day or night. [UPDATE 6/19/09: Went for another walk and stopped by again today early afternoon to try the chicken pita. I was happily surprised that it only cost $3. I usually get the lamb and pay $4. Still prefer the lamb. The walk: 39 blocks The line: 38 people The chicken pita: $3 The wait: 36 minutes Billable waiting time: $120 worth* I waited less at midnight; they had 3 guys that night. Only 2 for the lunch rush today. Go figure. Solid 3 stars. I want to give them 4. I really do. I'm trying. I even came back again. $123 for an OK chicken pita plus a 36 minute wait for quick cart food can only be 3 stars. Max. I prefer to wait at least 2-3 people at a busy cart for more freshly prepared food than most other carts; but a line of 30-38 people at almost any hour of day or night. You people don't listen. You make me wait mad time for my halal food. Can't believe it ! ] *reason I still haven't waited on shake shack line A, though I am listed on Lucy L's shake shack line 'will jump for burger' escort and conversation service, and I'm worth every penny. Shameless plug. Please contact 'the Jumper' for pricing and availability.
Look, it's good street meat. ?I'm not saying it's not good street meat. ?It's just... well, exactly what you would expect. ?Basically, just imagine what another halal cart tastes like, without the after nasty feeling. ?Which is a welcome change... but I don't think it's a 300 review 4.5 star review kinda place.
There is a reason the line here starts before the cart oven is even turned on. There is a reason that even the cart down the block is virtually line-less. This is the best Halal cart in the city. Perhaps the best anything-cart in the city. And if you like to cry while you eat (as I do), then ask for extra hot sauce. It is excellent. I have traveled up and across town just to eat here. Note: Be sure you're at the right spot: yellow shirts with the name on the back, yellow plastic bags, often long line, only open 7:30PM - 4AM. Beware impostors...
How I've lived here for 8 years and never been is beyond me. ?What a spot -- and actually, it's really the lamb and rice that's best (even though most people refer to it as chicken and rice). ?The line may look long but it flies and the wait is worth it for the spicy, textured, tasty goodness that awaits you at the end. ?About as good as food cart food gets -- 5 stars but for the line and some complaints of how people feel the next day:).
Sometimes the best food comes from the street vendors rather than the pricey overrated restaurants in the city. We were in NY for 5 days and ate halal 3 times! Great after a night out in the city... this cart gets BUSY! even at 2am. Even the taxi cab drivers know this cart is the shit!
How in the world did I just learn about this cart?? Well, for all of you who might also not be graced with the knowledge of THE cart that serves chicken and rice with white sauce... there is also ANOTHER cart right across the street on 53rd. ? Now, some may be skeptical about this other cart with the noticeably shorter lines...BUT, we've looked into it and this cart is most definitely owned by the same family who owns the OTHER CART. ?The food is THE SAME and they even give it to you in the same bags... if you're civilized enough to even get it in a bag and not start like shoveling it in your mouth directly from the foil container.... not that there's anything wrong with that. ? So yeah, there's my tip... stop by the cart after a night out (there WILL be a line, it's amazing), eat and save the rest for lunch the next day. ?If you finish the first one then order another... because you will want more the next morning... and chances are you don't live nowhere near 53rd and 6th...
This was one of the few places I needed to bring my friends to when I was in New York with them this week.. It's safe to say that the famous cart did not disappoint me again.. Like my last trip to NY, this was one of the few places we ate at repeatedly (and I always make it a point to not repeat any food stops, but to keep trying new things).. Just make sure you stick with the mixed grill which is made of lamb and chicken.. Be sure to add the white sauce (in fact, go ape shit with it), but be careful with the hot sauce. Although I didn't find it particularly spicy, it kicked the shit out of my friends' mouths.. And although we got lucky, the wait for this cart can be ridiculous sometimes.. Regardless, you've gotta try it!
Still delicious, but if they run out of food and tell you that the other truck will come within "10 minutes", don't believe them. Otherwise you may end up waiting in the snow for an hour and a half.. sad (but true) story :(
This is gooood fooood! you're gonna love it the first time you try it. i prefer it over other halal since it isnt as wet or greasy. the white sause is amazing but watch out for the hot sause.
I'll let my gastronomic juices do the talking on this one: Grrrrrrrrrrrrrr. Bluuurrrrb. Rrrraaahhhhhhrrrrlllll. Eeerrrnnnnhhh. Blooooaaaaahhhh. Dooot. Morse Code. Overall, not bad.
Almost everyone I know has heard about this place and love it. ?Their food is great, I always order the lamb over rice which comes out to 6 dollars. ?The lines are rather long sometimes but they make it as fast as possible. You're up, order and they have it ready right away. ?It's the longest line I have ever seen for an outdoor corner vendor. ?I'm giving this place a 5 because of the great tasting food, the fast service, the convenient location and seriously its as good as a street vendor can get.
Oh Halal Cart, how I miss you so. I recently went on a trip to NYC and a couple friends told me that this was a MUST try. ?For $6 each plate, this is the best deal in NYC. Between 4 adults and 1 child, we split 3 plates. One Chicken, one Lamb/gyro and one mix. All for $18... it was the cheapest meal we had in NYC and one of the best! We loved it so much we went back a second time for the lamb/gyro (We all liked it more than the chicken.. the chicken was still good, but the lamb was tastier. Oh man, I'm craving it now. Someone send me a plate!!! or send me a recipe so at least I can try to mimic it!!!
I came here to NYC my first time, and kept hearing OVER AND OVER about how great "chicken and rice" was. My stomach and taste buds were constantly teased time and time again by my friends who would make late night stops here, whether it was on a chilled-out sober night, or a night when they just got sloshed. Me and my friend tried to drive here before heading out to Boston on my first trip to NYC, and we were greeted with a line that went ALL the way down the block--this was at least a 45 minute wait. I never got my chicken and rice. This time, I was gonna get it no matter what. My friend and I took the subway here at about 2am, and this was my last meal in NYC before I flew back to sunny CA 4 hours later. We waited in line for about 15 minutes on a Monday morning at 2am...this place HAS to be good if people are sacrificing their sleep for it. I ended up getting a lamb and chicken and rice plate. ?My friend topped it with the white sauce and just a little bit of red sauce--I asked him to put more because I have a high spice tolerance, but he said, "Trust me, you don't want a lot of this..." He was right, it was just the right amount to fulfill my spice cravings, and the white sauce was great to neutralize it when it got too spicy. ?The plate was filled with TONS of lamb and chicken, lettuce, orange rice, and about 3-4 pieces of flat bread. Mix it all together and enjoy a nice, warm, delicious meal. OH..can't forget the price. $6 for each plate! UNBELIEVABLE! I couldn't even finish more than half and I was starving beforehand too! They give you a TON of bang for your buck here. Definitely a MUST TRY if you go to NYC. It's worth the wait...you probably won't want to leave the line no matter how long it is after you smell what they're cooking up for you...
This is definitely one of the "makes your mouth water at the mere thought of the tasty chicken..and that sauce"..ooh yeah :) haha After a long night of musicals/bar hopping, our last stop was at this one particular Halal cart. There are tons in ny, but for some reason, the new yorkers that were taking me around insisted that we pitch in for a cab ride here... the line was frigggin long and the entire time i was complaining about the cold, my feet blistering from the heels, annoying drunks in line, stomach growling..etc etc..I was near the end of my exhaustion... one bite of the delish plate..and everything else was history. :) I devoured the the plate. Its extremely delish- and I m sure the fact that I was starving made the dish taste even more tastier...Either way, I felt a whole lot better after the food and yes..I will def. go back....next week prehaps? ny here i come again!
Not sure what the hype is about, maybe it gives all the people in the nearby office buildings something to talk about. ?The chicken is above quality, but isn't spiced well at all. ?You pay more, but get a nice amount of food for your money like many halal carts. ?The white sauce wasn't that good however, and their red sauce needs more flavor. ?The staff can take breaks which help the line get even longer, which is a pain in the ass. ?I did get a kick out of them having a separate cart for drinks though hehe LIke I said it may be cool for people who need something to talk about or that are tourists visiting the MoMA, but otherwise theres better food around whether you're drunk or not.
i love the idea of nyc, but i hate real nyc. ?thank the heavens i decided not to attend nyu. ?i see it this way: everything nyc has, sf does too except its MUCH cleaner and there are less crazies about. ?everything but my beloved halal cart! i would go to nyc just to come here. ?if i did nothing else, but wait in line in the freezing cold for an hour, thatd be fine by me as long as i got my chicken a nd lamb plate. ?the line is LONG but it moves quickly and i promise you, it's worth every second! ?hot, flavorful and cheap! ?i dream about this cart.. ?when im in palo alto, hungry at 2am, all i gots is jack in the box. ): if you have time, GO HERE. ?if you don't have time, MAKE TIME.
Good food, good white sauce and hot red sauce.
Probably the best food stand, EVER. ?Chicken and rice with extra sauce please. ?This place also carries a hot sauce that is too strong for me. ?I have to actually be cautious when applying the hot sauce. ?Im usually relatively resistant to spice, but their concoction owns me, and i love it. ?The chicken is flavorful, the sauce just exponentially enhances the flavor. ? If I was a local, i'd come here at least once a week.
We were trying to get to this cart for at least 2 nights. ?Finally on Sunday night we got there, expecting to wait in a line that lasted hours! ?What luck...NO LINE at 11:45 pm. ? 2 orders of Chicken and Rice and 1 order of Lamb and Rice. ?Short walk to where the brother and his gf were. ?Open Chicken first, the first whiff...OMG...it smelled so good. ?Open white sauce, pour on top; open hot sauce, dab all over...good thing we were pre-warned about it's spiciness! ?I think I ate half of it within 15 mins. ?in the meantime, I also opened the Lamb...hello, it smelled just as great! ?Repeat sauce routine. ?I was quiet for 30 minutes while savoring every bite! ?But THEN it started to settle in and I got super full, super fast! ?BF took over the eating while I went to the futon and passed out for about 20 minutes! I have to say I really enjoyed the Halal Cart...it lives up to it's expectation. ?I'm glad that I didn't have to wait in a horrendous line too! ?I should probably add another star for that!
Considering i live in jersey and i drive out there ...pay 8 dollars for toll and deal with city traffic and angry taxi cab drivers JUST to grab a platter ...at least once or twice a week...i say its GOOD!....However if u're looking for quality over quantity, this is not the place for u...its a lot of food..and dont get me wrong, its good food but its still street food and its exposed to new york city pollution....but when u' ve spent a couple of hours drinking and u need to grab a bite at 4am....THIS IS THE PLACE!
Came to this corner during the day. Waited in line for about 10 minutes. Saw 3 guys wearing yellow shirts and got the lamb and rice with white sauce for $6 (heard the hot sauce is H-O-T). After eating about half of it (large meal that could feed me for the day), the bf realized that across the street from where we got our food was the ORIGINAL cart that's popular with the late nighters. Since I didn't get the "original" Halal food, I told him that I wanted to go back. So we headed here again (during the day); even though the awning says "open from 7PM to 4AM), we noticed the trademark yellow plastic bags, knew we were at the right cart so proceeded to order lamb and rice with white sauce ($6). Now since I've had the pleasure of trying the "original" and a non-original halal plate of lamb and rice, I gotta tell you that I really couldn't tell a difference. The only thing I noticed was that the pita at the original cart was softer, chewy and tasted as if it were homemade and baked just a few hours ago versus the pita at the daytime 53rd and 6th location was crispy and toasted. Other than that, the lamb and rice tasted the same, as well as white sauce (which I'm trying to figure out what it is...diluted ranch perhaps?). To be really picky...maybe the lettuce and tomatoes were fresher at the "original" cart...but that's just being really, really critical. All I know is the lamb and rice is good and the next time I visit NY, I'm headed for Halal food!
Coming as a Californian who knows good food, I've heard several people hype up this street cart. ?The night before at 2am I already tried a chicken and rice from another street cart. ?However, everybody and their mother told me that this particular cart on 53rd and 6th was just ridiculous. We took a taxi and ended up getting there around 2 o'clock and stood in line. ?After about 2 minutes of standing in line, our New Yorkian friend said "Wait a minute, we're in the wrong line the cart is over there!" We got out of line and proceeded to the real deal and the line was crazy. ?I thought it was going to take an hour to get our food, but 10 minutes and our empty bellies were filled. ?I must say that easily was the best gyro I've ever had in my entire life and the chicken and rice was SEXY SEXY and did I mention sexy? We got to pile on that creamy creamy white sauce of goodness at the end of the line by ourselves(self serve). ?Upon advice from my friend who said their hot sauce who burn a hole in my bumhole, I didn't lay a hand on the red stuff. ? I can't say much that nobody else had said before, but I gotta add one more thing where most people who reviewed this place can't say. ?As were were eating our food on the side sitting on the cement pillars, a fight broke out. ?It was 40 dudes going at it and people cheering on the side like it was a cockfight. ?And not to be ignorant, but all the fighters were Indian dudes and it looked like a scene from Bollywood. ?There homeboys were jumping up and down throwing their hands in the air and screaming. ?I felt like I had front row seats to Tyson/Ali. ?I made sure to keep my distance, but enjoyed the show. ?That made the gyro/chicken and rice THAT much BETTER!
It's probably the best street food in NY City. I always ordered the lamb over rice with extra "white" and "spicy" sauce. The line could be very long at night, the wait could take 20-30 minutes, but it's worth it. If you come around 6-7pm, the wait is not too bad, probably it'd take 10-12 minutes. It's a lot of food for the price ($6). Awesome for dinner and late night.
In short: Best food cart I've ever had, but it's not the fastest thing in the world. If you haven't heard of this place, it's a meat and rice food cart that pretty much looks like any other food cart in NYC except for the fact that there's about a hundred people lined up in front of it at any point during the day. The menu's no surprise; there's lamb or chicken with rice, hot sauce, and some other sauce I can't identify. They give it to you in a big aluminum pan, and it's absolutely delicious deal for $7. I'm not going to be journeying up 60 blocks for this food anytime soon, but if I'm in the area, it's going to be a hot spot.
Better than filet mignon.
Value, value, value. ?Hot, hot, hot. ?I only wish there was a milkshake cart next to it to cool the mouth down.
I'm considering moving to NYC because of this cart. The mix plate of chicken and lamb was too good to describe. Definitely the best $6 I've ever spent on food. There is always a line, but worth the wait.
One thing I can say about this place is that I always feel full after having one of their platters. ?And that's more than I can say for all the other Halal carts I've tried around the city. It's definitely a great value. ?But other than the generous portions, there's nothing especially impressive about this place. Also, beware of the red sauce. ?If you're not careful, it will kill you!
Came here on Oct 19, 2009 and saw all the great reviews. ? It only cost $6 bucks to get a healthy tasting beef and chicken over rice dish!!! I would have paid $20 for these flavors and amount of food they give you!! What a find!!
Ah, street meat. In Los Angeles, the only dedicated street food vendors ?are the Mexican fruit sellers. The new LA trend of street meat rolls around in roach coaches and you never know where your favorite vendor'll be parked unless you follow them on Twitter. In New York, there's a Halal Cart on every other street corner from noon til midnight regardless of the weather. ?I caught this vendor on a chilly night while heading back to my hotel. ?He was actually on 52nd and 7th that night. ?The cart next to my hotel at 53rd and 6th had a dozen folks waiting in line for what is all basically the same food prepared the exact same way. I ordered the mixed grill of lamb and chicken over yellow rice with yogurt and hot sauces and some salad on the side. A huge amount of food enough for two for only six bucks! A bottle of water for $1. Who says you have to spend money to enjoy the city? I took it back to the hotel to dine in style. It was good. They offer a variety of grilled Mediterranean foods, falafel and of course the classic New York hot dog. The Gyro meat did not look appetizing, but I would not hesitate to stop at any Halal cart around the city, if I know some place to sit nearby.
Yea, you deserve the fame and the hype. Its absolutely delicious. But why are you screwing me!?!??! I came here one night and ordered 4 plates to go. The line was surprisingly short so I was in and out under 10 minutes. Quite an accomplishment if anyone is familiar with the place. It was missing a fork, and didn't give us enough white sauce. What gives man? Is it my fault that I didn't check? I guess this is just ?a warning to future patrons, check your bags for everything. Even though I got shafted, I'll still be coming back. Its too good to reject....
Oh my, oh dear. ?I had heard of this particular cart from a friend who touted its greatness but I had not had the privilege of experiencing it myself until today. ?Oh what a day today is! I had the lamb platter with rice and both the white and hot sauce. ?The lamb was so flavorful and juicy and those sauces! I love spicy and that white sauce adds the perfect mild, creamy balance. GIVE ME MORE! ?I'll definitely be going out of my way to get to this cart in the future.
Great for relatively cheap junk 'ethnic' food. I have to knock a star off though because the line often freezes. Would it kill them to buy a bigger cart or add another grill?
Great things have already been said about this place, but I thought i'd throw my two cents in as well. I have always wondered what makes this chicken and rice stall particularly outstanding compared to the hundreds of vendors on every other street corner. I used to think that it was just a growing hype amongst drunk NY-kers craving food after a long night, but then I realized that the difference is really in the seasoning of the meat-- they marinade their chicken differently from other street vendors and the spices are not over-done. I like that I do not get a greasy feeling in my stomach after eating a generous portion of their chicken and rice. The only critique that I have is about their hot sauce. The general consensus is that it is so spicy you can't really taste the flavours. If possible, I suggest taking your plate of chicken and rice home and adding Siracha hot sauce. It is much tastier. This halal cart runs its business every day from 7.30pm to 4am. Due to its popularity, the line is usually long but it moves quickly. ?Do not confuse this with the daytime cart at the same junction, because that is not affiliated with this one at all. Granted I would not want to eat chicken and rice every day, but this is certainly my favourite and only place I like to patronize on the weekends at 3am. I don't care if people say it's a "cult". ?Join it and love it.
Great place, great price! ?Get the combo plate, slather it in white sauce, get the hot sauce the side if you can't take the heat! MmMmmMMMmmmmsoooooooooGOOOOOOD!
As I write this, 1 tear is rolling down my cheek *cue the sappy Korean love song*. ?Why, oh why must you be thousands of miles away??!?!? ?Is the love in Southern California not worth the move from NY? I was skeptical at first when I heard about this place...thinking, how good can a rice stand like this be? ?We ordered the mixed bowl. ?The key is definitely the white sauce which is subtle, combined with the more obvious flavors of the lamb, hot sauce and the yummy chicken. ?I honestly think that the bowl wouldn't be if any of them were missing. ? So anyway, I have a pretty high tolerance for spicy food and so does my BF. ?Of course, he squeezes the red bottle like a kid pouring chocolate syrup on their sundae... yikes, bad mistake! ?It was unbelievably hot, but tell you what...it was so good that we (or at least I) muscled through almost the rest of it. ?It helps to pour the white sauce if you were a bit heavy handed on the hot sauce. ?We returned the next night, lesson in hand...and it was heaven. ?This was easily our favorite single dish that we had during our NY trip, which was unanimous for all 6 of us travelers. ? ?I'd recommend this place to any out-of-towners. ? $6.00 *****If anyone knows of a place somewhat similar to this in So Cal... pls. message me. ?I need my fix!
I could just be giving it 5 stars because it was 4 am and I was drunk and starving, but remembering chicken and rice right now is making me drool! Tim L. is right; the hot sauce is CRAZY. What I did was cover my aluminum plate in white sauce squiggles and then only a single line of hot sauce; don't forget to mix it up! Otherwise you end up like my friend with a whole mouthful of hot sauce and chicken that you have to spit out. Thank god for the $1 water bottle cart ten feet away. The chicken is delicious, the rice is cooked well (and not hard or gross) and I can't live without the white sauce. I would've taken home the rest of my food back to my hotel if we had a microwave just so I could eat it in the morning. This place also had about 100 people in line at 4 am! Ridiculous! Definitely a place to try after bar-hopping or clubbing; I think we were catching a crowd of NYU students who had just finished finals. I am definitely coming back when I'm in NYC - if only it were in LA!
I normally love this cart, but not tonight. Went at about 3:30am and both the SW and SE corners were packed. Chose the slightly shorter SE corner line. ?Because of how busy they were they were pre-making everything and stacking trays. They didn't listen to what I ordered and then scolded me for not telling them (even though I did) and poorly altering the wrong order they gave me as a solution. The chicken and lamb were both dry. At least the hot sauce was good! Good in the daytime but I'd reconsider this as a late night spot.
omg... my neice.. kept telling me when i visited the east coast recently.. "we have to get chicken and rice from 53rd st" i'm like what... this long line .. is worth being in..the food is fantastic.. i love the white suace .. you pour over the chicken.. omg.. its sucks that i'm from california.. cause now i'm constantly craving the chicken and rice and this cart on 53rd and 6th.. i suggest that any tourist visitng ny this is a must to stop by a pick up a plate
Absolutely delicious after a night of drunken debauchery ;p ?but honestly, the rice is on the dry side for me (I personally like my rice SOFT) and I probably wouldn't like it was much if I was sober :X
Over rated serving size wasn't as big as some of the images lead you to believe since more than 1/2 of the platter was made up of lettuce. The chicken was dry (I was told i didn't put enough white sauce) but I was there for the chicken not the sauce. Worth the wait? Heck no.
Finally. The only good thing about staying in the Theatre District this time around (let me postscript this by saying that this is not my own choice - damn conference) and the only reason any non-New York first-timer tourists should be around the area after office hours. I know there are millions of random little carts around town selling everything from hot dogs, biryani rice, to shish kebab. This particular Mediterranean-food cart, for some reason, has gained a cult popularity (of epic proportion). I first heard about this from one of my staff who, randomly enough, is not even from anywhere near Manhattan (he hailed from San Diego). Curious, I walked over and found a huge line-up at 9.30PM. It was neither dinner time, nor was it late enough for the drunkards with munchies to come for a visit. The food, a choice of rice with chicken and/or lamb, or gyros sandwich with chicken and/or lamb, was awesome. Even without alcohol in your system. To be quite honest I don't really want to know which part of the sheep the lamb meat came from, because it might gross me out, and besides, smothered in white sauce, it doesn't really make any difference. Speaking of sauce - while the white sauce was good, the red sauce was the B O M B. I was wondering why they are served in a much smaller containers relative to the containers that the white sauce comes in. I could see why - one tiny taste I concluded that the kick may be too spicy to the untrained tongue. Not mine. To me - it was love at first sight (taste). My only regret is not trusting my gut instinct (no pun intended) and doubting my ability to enjoy hot sauces when my staple diet growing up was steamed rice with chili padi and soy sauce and white bread with tabasco habanero. Too bad I was nowhere near the cart to be able to ask for a second container (or third, or fourth). Ah boo. As a side note: This cart must make a killing. Say $5 for a plate of rice and chicken. Cost probably $0.50 to per portion (90% gross margin - can't complain. Not even my huge software companies could make that good of a margin). Average 2 sale per minute, $600 / hr, 9 hours a day and 7 days a week results in a taking of close to $38k a week, which translates to a turnover of almost $2 million a year. Not bad for a semi-permanent establishment. Maybe I should quit finance and start my own little taco truck.
Yep had it yesterday. ?It's everything they say it is. ?Delicious! ?Had the Falafel in the pita with white and hot sauce....yummy! ?My husband had the falafel platter which comes over delicious rice.
Best halal cart in the city. For $6, you'll get almost twice as much food for the same price at other carts. The food is quality and the hot sauce is off the hook. Luckily there wasn't a big line when I went but I've seen in stretch around the block. I usually go with Chicken and rice but will try new options next time i'm there. Most importantly the rice was perfect. It was actually good long grain rice. i've left so many halal carts dissapointed by the quality of the rice. i make it a point to visit this cart at any cost when i'm in NYC.
I rarely use internet lingo but O...M...G!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ?The food is so great. ?I usually get the chicken instead of the lamb, with lots of white sauce and a bit of red. The fact that they have more than one cart now means the line is never really long. ?What's in the white sauce??? I want to know! I want to have Halal Cart food now, but I'm in Michigan...
Perhaps the last meal of the 7 meal day in NY, we were able to finish off the night of partying in Lower East side with this place that I've heard nonstop about. ? "you have to get the chicken and rice cart" "You have to get it from 6th and 53rd" "make sure you dump that white sauce" "its soo good" yes, all those comments stirred up quite a curiosity for us Californians and there on that final moment, we were able to have our $6 ready for a purchase for the very first time, our chicken and rice halal coming beautifully in a tin pie looking container and a circle top with several cups of white sauce to take home with. ?love that sauce. ?And as we cabbed it back, even for 6 blocks, our mouths were getting watery from the smell of absolute perfect munchy food. ?Even though it was the night after Peter Lugers, and our stomachs were begging no more, we sure devoured that chicken and rice till we KOed. ?So was it worth it? ?Perhaps. ?Is it as good as everyone says it is? ?In a way, but I think it may be overhyped in a sense. ?Here's what it boils down to: I like it, I don't love it, its cheap, and I never had it, therefore I enjoyed my experience and am starting to feel my mouth water as I'm writing this. ?dammit, I hate it when that happens.
This place haunts my dreams. I haven't been able to find anything as delicious as the 53rd and 6th halal cart in SF. The lamb/beef combination plate coupled with the creamy but light white sauce, and the fiery red sauce that you might regret if you have an aversion to anything that might be a little spicy- this is my idea of a Mediterranean heaven, drunk or sober :). This is a huge factor in why I might move there!
best cart food in the city, the lines prove it. a lot of food for a decent price. their hot sauce is pretty gangster, dont put too much on or it can ruin your meal.
IT JUST FREAKING CHICKEN.............WENT HERE SOBER AND TRIED AGAIN PISS FREAKING DRUNK. ?Ened up throwing up the sober time and having mudd butt the intoxicated time. Also.........saw a drunk girl yack her way to the front of the line and than eat and yack it all up........tragic but classic.
I recommend the CHICKEN. The beef has a very DISTINCTIVE SPICED taste... not necessarily bad but DIFFERENT. Chicken is for the NOT TOO adventurous! Plus chicken (overall) is ALWAYS the safer bet in my book!
The only "street meat" I enjoy--it's actually flavorful. ?Plus, whenever I have out-of-town visitors, they always have fun grabbing a plate after a night out in the City (though locals know the cart across the street on 6th serves exactly the same food without the obnoxiously long wait).
When my taxi passed by this cart on 53rd & 6th at 11:30pm, there was a ton of people lined up which made me curious as to why. ?After 20 minutes of standing in line at 10:30pm, a guy asks, "How many?" What you're suppose to know is that they only serve one thing: chicken and gyro meat over rice (I think it's jasmine cooked with tumeric) with some lettuce on the side for $7/each. ?One take-out plate easily fed my daughter and I plus we shared a Carnegie chocolate cheesecake for dessert. ?Too much. As one reviewer mentioned previously, go easy on the red hot sauce as it is very hot (possibly haba?ero). ?My son can easily drink Tobasco sauce, but this red sauce had him gasping for water. ?This Halal cart is conveniently located near the Broadway Theatre (where Shrek the Musical is playing) and the Sheraton Hotel & Towers. Although there is a long line, the 3-4 guys running the cart are efficient and can get through all those salivating, waiting patrons.
So so good. I'm not a big fan of meat in general and this was out of this world. Load with white sauce and, as mentioned, go uber light on the hot sauce (you sauce your own). The line moved fast at 11:30 pm on a Saturday night. $6 for enough lamb and yellow rice for two.
From Gourmet October 2009: "My favorite New York street food is the Halal Guys' cart at the corner of 6th Avenue and 53rd Street, where there's always a line. It's worth the wait for their chicken and rice with extra hot sauce." - Chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten Enough said.
Food: Combo with rice, lots of white sauce and a moderate amount of hot sauce, same like everywhere else, right? NO! People always slam it cause the line is sooo long and there are shorter lines. True. But the fact that they keep selling means that the meat is ALWAYS being prepared and cooked fresh. Meat does not sit there for 2 hours before a hapless street creature comes knocking. I started doing a new thing by taking it home to eat and mixing some freshly diced cucumbers, onions, and scallions in. This kinda masks the greasiness of the food. Drink: Prepare to drink alot of fluids afterward. Has to have alot of MSG in that white sauce or else it would not be any good. Service: Long lines but fast moving because of the quick turn around time. These guys are pros, take your money and hand you food in a fluid assembly line fashion. Crowd: Big crowd of locals, out of towners, drunks, sober people. Bums too, lol, they stand there asking for money since its cash only. Be prepare to feel like a caged animal as tour buses loop around to have tourists point and take pictures of you with an awe struck face.
OMG. This was the place!!! Can you imagine a line one mile long. Exactly, hard to believe, but it's true. Luckily i was staying at the hotel next to the cart. ? They open at 7PM promptly and the lines start. What can i say. The smell from blocks away is enticing. ?Got in line, and waited for my turn. Finally, got the order guy, saw their menu.. went w/ chicken platter.. Comes w/ chicken shwarma type entree, mixed w/ rice, sauces (hot or not up to you).. in an aluminum platter.. piping hot.. Taste! Well, let's put it this way. Best chicken shwarma I have had outside of Istanbul. ?Not greasy, not dry.. perfectly made.. Each time I am in NYC, i must visit this little gem on 53th..
The cart starts at 7:30p - 4:00a, any other time it's another company. ?Expect a wait of about 30 minutes average. ?Sometimes it can be 15m if you're lucky or up to an hour if you're not. ?There is a way to bypass this line, as this is New York and money talks. The food is AMAZING and many many times I wish I had a bigger stomach. ?This is indeed my last mean on Earth. ?Sometimes I would crave this on Monday and would not stop until I get it later in the week. They've now changed it to add your own sauce. ?You can drown your combo rice in white sauce all you want, but definitely GO EASY on the spicy hot sauce!
No one ever believes me but, at noon, you can find these guys on the SE corner, right on the corner of the Blackrock/CBS building. I kid you not-- chicken and rice is available during the lunchtime rush! Don't fool yourself into any other cart on the three adjacent corners during daylight hours. When you're just craving that fiery hot sauce, doused with bbq and white sauce over some delicious lamb or beef, find the guys on this specific corner with their yellow "Halal Guys" umbrella. You'll get the same guys with the same food with the same sauces at the same price but with no (or at least a very short) line. Though they generally clean up at around 4pm, they are sometimes there even during the evening. If they're not, then you'll have to brave the cart on the SW corner that opens up at around 7:30pm with ridiculous lines that are, arguably, not worth it. In any event-- can you taste it already? Chicken and rice at lunch time? A tasty $6 lunch in midtown? Yes, you can dream big! But only on the SE corner.
I came at a good time when the line wasn't terribly long. ?At night, there's actually two of these carts that serve the exact same thing. Same bags, same tray. But being careful I went to the cart with the long line. I heard a lot about this place, so I checked it out. Oh my goodness. It was worth the trip. Here's how to make it easy, get the combo plate, put on some more of that sauce and be conservative with the hot sauce. You know how hot sauce is usually hot but not actually HOT? Well their hot sauce is actually quite hot. Being all kinds of manly man, I put in a lot more extra hot sauce. YOWZA, it is hot. I learned my lesson. The rice is actually pretty nice and the salad that comes with the plate is fine. The combination of eating the rice and the lamb/chicken with the sauces working together works out very nice. ?I'd come back for sure.
omg, this place is so damn good when it's effin' cold outside, you're drunk, and you're broke after an expensive night out. my friends have been talking about this place so much that my buddy took me here. the heavily-bearded dudes cooking the chicken really weirded me out - do they have beard-nets or something? anyway, i paid $12 for 2 bowls of chicken and rice, and asked for hot sauce. we walked a few blocks to my friend's pad...and the amazing goodness ensued. the bowl is simple: grilled chicken over orange long-grained rice (i was so drunk i thought it looked like cheddar-cheese shreds and freaked out. lol) with iceberg lettuce and pita bread. the white sauce was good - tasted like sour cream and yogurt combined. definitely not healthy, but what kind of cream-sauce ever is? (insert dirty joke here). my friends warned me about the tiny-container of hot sauce, but i normally put hot sauce on EVERYTHING and braved it. it was pretty damn spicy, but i still dipped my fork into it with almost every bite. my mouth was completely numb later, but nothing a few starburst jelly beans couldn't relieve. all in all, this place is the bomb. where else can you find cheap good food at 3am in new york? i'm definitely coming back.
What is "heaven in your mouth" taste like?! ? Answer is... the combo plate on 53rd and 6th Ave (aka THE Halal Cart. on the SW corner, don't be fooled by the imposters... more about that later) Chicken and Gyro served over yellow rice w/ iceberg lettuce and pita... sprinkle in their famous white sauce (ask for extra) and you'll have the best dish ever that $6 can buy. ? My journey all started when I was staying at the Hilton New York several years back. ?Heading back to the hotel after a long night of partying I saw a mob of people across the street. ?Not knowing how famous this cart ?was, I was wondering what the commotion was. ?There were over 20 people in line braving the fridged Manhattan winter at 2:30am! ?So being the curious cat, I too waited. ?Approximately one hour later... ?I received my food and took it back to my room. ?One bite and all my curiosity was answered. ?Other then a NY slice and a Grey's Papaya hot dog, no other street food can compare. The meats are so succulent and delicious at this famous Halal cart that imitators (Halal on SE corner of 53rd and 6th) are duplicating it. ?Copying is the highest form of flattery! ?But be forewarned (though it is a buck cheaper), they are not the same! ?Meat and rice maybe, but they can't duplicate the same white sauce. ?It's the glue that makes the original Halal cart a tristate landmark! ?Don't know what it is, it's similar to a tzatiki sauce (yogurt based) w/ some mayonnaise. ?They also have a bbq sauce as an alternative... just pass that one up. ?You can also get the combo in a form of a sandwich for about $4 as well. ?Also great in it's own right. The original opens at 8pm till 4am... people are already ?waiting in line by 7. ?It's like that every single single day... lines can reach up to 30-50 people in the wee hours (peak time). ?Simply Crazy! ?I read that a person got shot and died for simply cutting in line. ?*head shakes* ?One thing though, if I was to go... this would definitely be the last meal I want!
Chasing Halal carts in New York City is kind of like chasing taco trucks in Los Angeles... the later you go, the drunker the patrons are waiting in line. ?On this particular culinary adventure, I was at the end of a very long line with two cute Asian girls behind me who were discussing El Taurino in LA... I'm kicking myself now for not having turned around and introduced myself. This Halal cart means business with their food assembly line turned on high gear as they try to feed their late night visitors. ?I liked that for six dollars, you get a good serving of rice with an equal serving of chicken or lamb, and it was good. ?The line moves along quickly as you stand eyeing an open seat either near the fountain or by the office building. ?Oh, and back to those cute girls, they could have sat anywhere but they walked over to where I was eating and my dumb ass went "shy", being shy in New York City won't get you food let alone a healthy serving of "legs and skirts."
OK, as soon as I got off the plane at JFK I really wanted to get some gyros or halal cart or that type of food from the street vendors. For three days I would not stop talking about it, drove my girlfriend crazy. So I finally get here and I am excited about it. ?Now, I love lamb for some reason. ?I got the chicken-lamb rice bowl at the suggestion of my friends. ?The lamb came out real good here and the chicken was alright too, but since I am such a big fan of lamb I liked the lamb better. ? The Hot sauce and white sauce were real good too. ?I guess the hotsauce was somewhat spicy, but I didnt put too much on here. The meat is probably not the best quality. ?but its a freakin cart ppl, if you want good meat, check out peter lugers (see previous post). ?The rice lamb chicken and grease is a great combo and makes for a good street vendor food. ?I am pretty sure this food is amazing when drunk.
Chicken and rice is cheap, filling, and some of the flavors are there. The rice had flavor, but the chicken seemed bland.. I still don't understand what's so special about the white sauce.
There is no better chicken and rice cart in NYC than this one. The chicken, lame, rice combo is awesome. The tahini sauce is good.. but don't go overboard with it. Also, the hot sauce is REALLY hot.. so I would put a little bit in the corner of your box and if you can take the heat and want more.. go back.. otherwise.. I've seen people pile on the hot sauce and take one bite only to spit it out and then drench it in tahini to counteract the hot sauce. If you go after 2am.. the lines will be long..even during the middle of winter. However, for $5-6 bucks, you'll leave happy and pretty full.
After hearing all the amazing things I'd figure its time to try it out. It's gooood. I ate the chicken and lamb combo over rice - $6. In terms of taste I prefer the lamb. The sauce is amazing and drizzle of hot sauce was just right. ?It's just what I needed after walking and walking all day. ?And to top it off there was no line! Sweet.
It used to be $5, but for $6 in money-making Manhattan, it's as good as it gets. The food is great, I always get the chicken/lamb combo. The chicken is shredded and the lamb is diced. The beef is diced too I think, but whatever, it's only beef. The chicken doesn't have much flavor to it, but I get the lamb along with it cause the lamb is so flavorful and savory and it evens out. Don't get me wrong, the beef is good too! It comes with bread too. The white sauce is very tasty. The hot sauce is very hot. What's even better is the drink cart that's 10 steps in front of you. Every other week or so, I would come get myself a serving, although it's like a serving and a half for me. There would be times when I can't finish it and I would just microwave it the next morning for breakfast (even better than the first time!!!). If you're gonna be in NY, might as well come and give it a try. It's a 10 minute walk from Times Square. You can bring the food there, grab a seat and enjoy the sights. Every time I go, even at 3am, there is always a line of like 10+ people. The wait isn't long and even if it was, it's worth the wait because they're always consistent (money, food, money, food, etc.) P.S. The food is better when you're intoxicated, it's like the 2nd best thing in the world..in NY at least. P.S.S. The avy is of me at 53rd too! Awesome.
Earlier this month on a trip to NYC, my cousin introduced me to this amazing place. According to him, there would be minivans from New Jersey that would pull up and whole families would order up and eat in their cars. We saw a whole slew of cars lined up up on 56th between 6th and 7th with people eating in their cars. If anything, that is a good indication of great food! Earlier in the week, after being let down with dinners at Momofuku and Gramercy Tavern, I was determined to eat something good. My cousin who lives up on 57th said that I had to try this cart out. After ditching my germ-phobic sister, who would not allow me to eat off of a street cart, I went off looking for this cart. What I found at midnight on a Monday night was a cart with a line of 20 people. The line was very fast and I got the combo. Damn, it was gooooood. And only $6!!! The yogurt sauce is tasty and the hot sauce was nuclear. Not sure why it's called a Halal cart, I mean I've never seen a Kosher cart. But whatever, it's good. I only wish we had something like this in LA.
I've been saving my 900th review for this! ? Funny story - everyone had been telling me to try this place, and I wasn't sure how bad the lines would be so I wanted to come right when it opened - my sis and I got here by 7pm. ?Lo and behold we already see a cart on the Southwest corner of 53rd & 6th so assumed it was the correct one - we're shocked because NO LINE and we didn't think they'd open early. ?The boys at the cart gave us our chicken and rice in the blink of an eye, before we could even as any questions. ?Well well well, luckily I like to upload mobile pics onto fb and my halal cart expert friend was like "that's not the RIGHT cart!". ? Too late. ?We had already left and finished the platter. ?He said it looked wrong because: 1. ?The bag was not yellow. ?Their signature bag is YELLOW. 2. ?The chicken was chunky. ?The right halal cart gives you finely minced and shredded chicken. 3. ?They put the sauce on for you. ?The right halal cart has bottles of red and white sauces off to the side and you self-serve. I recommend you come here anytime after 8pm. ?Don't be a dummy like me and go to the wrong one! ?I knew the no line + cart opening early was too good to be true. ?I had to find my way back on this same street again the next night because I was determined to get the right cart and I'm soo glad I did! The chicken and rice was my best meal in NYC and I would gladly stand in line in the freezing cold for it again! ?I actually thought even the wrong chicken and rice was pretty good, but it could not compare to the true halal cart! ?That white sauce does wonders (they need to market the stuff, it's like crack) and the red sauce is craaazy hot so don't go overboard with it. Sooo good. ?$6 for a large platter of good food - what's not to like?
i dont understand what makes this place so much better than all the other carts that you find in NY that serve the same food, but they DO do it better. keep the DEA away from these carts, because that white sauce HAS TO have some crack in it. the red sauce.. splash at your own will... you might want to think about where the closest public accessible toilet is located before eating with the sauce. ?usually hotel cafes or lounges have the cleanest ones with no hassle. top notch street food!
All I remember my friend telling me was "REMEMBER GO TO THIS CART... Not the cart across the street who tries to front like they're something. THIS CART" lol. When I heard this, I didn't really believe it until we got here sometime during the AM after hours. You really do have to go to THIS cart. The line is about 15-20 people deep while the other cart across the way is for losers who gave up and couldn't wait in line any longer. Thank goodness there were a bunch of us because I was feeling pretty drunk and had to go sit down somewhere while the others waited in line. The food is definitely good, but then again so is anything when you have drunken munchies. Just remember to sauce this bad boy up before you walk away and you're good to go! I think i'll definitely have to come back one day and try it sober.
My boyfriend and I shared an order of the chicken/lamb and rice dish. ?We sadly were not that hungry when we came (we had eaten at the Biriyani Cart for dinner, watched Lion King and then ate here), but I had to try the food since it was infamous and I had no other meals available in which I could give it a taste. I made sure to stand in the line with the guys giving out food in yellow bags. ?It actually wasn't that long of a line and it moved pretty quickly. ?When we got to the front of the line, we opted for the chicken and lamb combo, got a Diet Coke from the beverage cart and then sat at some bench. ? I was ready. ?I was excited. ?I was...disappointed...I mean the white sauce was good. ?The hot sauce was good. ?But I think that's what made the food good. ?Actually, soaking the rest of the dish in the sauce so that the sauce masks everything else is what makes the food good. The secret's in the sauce, not the rice or lamb or chicken or onions or whatever. ?The food quality itself is not anything to rave about. ?I guess it is food coming from a large cart. Don't get me wrong, I'm all about street food. ?Perhaps it was too hyped for me and I expected too much. ?Perhaps I should've come starving. ? Maybe next time...
OMG SO SO SO good. I'm from Houston and I was introduced to this by ?our NY friends. I have been craving this ever since I've left. Please someone send some to me! thanks!
A street cart gets 4 stars from me along with the many other fabulous restaurants i have eaten at. ?I took a 6 block walk in 28 degree weather, just for the privilege of waiting in a 30person line to have a combo place with white sauce and hot sauce. ?It is new york street dining at its finest. Never been anything but perfect. I hope this guy retires a millionaire someday. ?I'll be back in March for sure.
This place is really as good as it gets in terms of flavor and value. ?The lamb and chicken are both so well seasoned and tender. ?You can eat them with or without the sauce because they are so good by themselves. ?Combo plate comes with salad, rice and pita. ?This is absolutely one of the best meals for $5! ?Satisfies your taste buds, fills your stomach, and doesn't empty your wallet.
The best food I've ever had from a food stand.
This is the one thing i vividly remember about visiting NY. My friend's mom told me I had to try this place when i went to NY...and LUCKY ME...our Hotel (Hilton) was right across the street from it!! literally right across the street! The lines were freakin LONG in the late late nights. She Told me.. Dont be fooled by the other carts around it...YOU MUST LOOK FOR THE GUYS in YELLOW...and the cart with the Longest line. and let me tell you...she was so on point.. there in NY on 53rd and 6th (Ave of ?the Americas) i see EXACTLY what she told me. so the day...right before we were leaving to go back to Virginia(it rained HARD), my bf and another friend ran through the rain to get me some chicken over rice. they brought it back for me...and MmMMmm did that shit SMELL GOOOD. we had already eaten that afternoon...so I saved it for the bus ride back to VA =) On the bus, I opened up my chicken and rice and the aroma filled the air...=) the white creamy sauce is oh so tasty!! Shit.. their food is even good COLD!! so of course this Halal cart gets 5 stars!!
THE BEST street meat! i always bring all my friends from out of town here. My main question is WHERE DO ALL THESE PPL come from that wait in the line? especially during the middle of the night! dont be tricked during the day tho!! its different operators. their red sauce is actually spicey unlike other carts. 5 dollars for a big pile of greasy food! mmmm whats there not to love? especially when drunk its gone in 5 seconds.
For $6, you can buy a piece of heaven, enough to feed two. Yes, I was a skeptic when I was told by three New Yorkers that I MUST stand in the freezing cold, and buy one of these rice plate / gyros. Yes, I was still skeptical when I arrived and saw 20+ ppl in line. I was even more skeptical when I looked at the food prep. Then I was in shock,...after buying this $6 midnight snack, we walked over to a cabbie to grab a ride back to the hotel. ?He was holding his $6 rice plate as well....and he brushed us off and asked us to get another cab! ?He was eating! ?WTH! ?Was it that good...that he couldn't drive me to the hotel 5 minutes away? ?GEEZ. Well, back at the hotel we finally dug into this and AHHHHH....it is that good. This is a MUST try, and a definite REPEAT for me.
I have to agree when a friend said that this was only good when eaten immediately after purchase. ? One of the guys with us went to this place THREE Times that weekend. ?The guy's nuts. ?I was grabbing some chocolates fro the Lady and he kept mentioning how we were getting closer and closer to this place. What I don't get is I think there's another one just 4 blocks from here. ?Why is that one not as popular? ?Is it cuz the food isn't as fresh because it doesn't have as high a turnover cuz it isn't as popular? Hm....
4 bucks and being taken to the greatest level of ecstasy that a man could ever imagine...apart from checkin' a big bank roll... All American Pimp quotes aside, I'm going to stay becalmed and undaunted by the large level of New Yorkers who attempt to vehemently denounce this kitchy cart as nothing more than a long line. The way I see it, cheap, unpretentious food is where it's at. ? Of all the Gyro's I've had, I can't say there's any better. ?The flavor burst of this seasoned mystery meat mold...shaved and dressed up with white and chili sauce is simply divine. Yes I'm saying God came down from heaven and stopped them muthafuckin' bullets Vince! ?What we just witnessed is a miracle and I want you to acknowledge it.
Brief History: ?The original (mother of them all) Halal stand was located on 55th and 6th Ave back in the mid 90's. ?He was the original and only stand at the time; since than, he's moved out to California. ?Than came the other stands and of course the 53rd stand. Review: ?The food is fantastic. ?Is it worth the almost 20 minute wait that patrons dish out every night? ?Questionable to some, worth it to most. ?Unfortunately I can think of other stands (49th & 6) that have just as great food without all the waiting. ?If you've got the time, go ahead and hang out for the chicken and rice. ?My favorite is the mix with chopped up nans, heavy on the white, two splashed of the hot sauce and a little bit of BBQ sauce on the side. ?Be careful with the BBQ, the hot sauce isn't the hottest but definitely hangs near the top of the list. ?You love it while you're eating in, you'll think God sent you the food straight from his kitchen in heaven if your drunk. ?Beware though, the next morning, you'll be sitting on the can like there was a Reggae party in your bum...just make it clap.
Hot sauce, white sauce? That's what the proprietor will ask after your lovely lamb is grilled up and placed in the pita. My advice, avoid them both...the meat is juicy enough on it's own! (If you must though, get them on the side so it's not slathered in it). Honestly, these nameless guys have some of the best cart food I've had in NYC. The meat is flavorful, fresh and well cooked. I suspect all the Halal cart guys in the city get their meat at the same supplier, but what makes this cart special is that they sell heaps and thus keep their stock fresh. I've probably eaten here 5 times or so, and it's always been good. It's also popular with quite a few other folks. One time, I was passing by in a car at like 11pm on a Monday, and out of the corner of my eye I noticed that the line had to be 50 long. Pretty crazy for a Monday night. Anyway, it's worth the wait though! Enjoy.
It's good, but it doesn't really stand head and shoulders above all the rest like everyone says. Also, I think the hot sauce is TOO hot. If you get the chicken with rice (which you always should at any halal cart) be glad they give you that extra pita--save it for once the hot sauce is searing off the roof of your mouth, it will help a bit
It's like crack. I can't even describe it.
After Shake Shack has settled, this is the must eat after midnight in MIdtown. ?I have all the respect in the world for restauranteurs making a go of it in the Big Apple. ?I enjoy a shi shi moment or two like everyone; spending way more than necessary for "ambiance'. There is plenty of that in NYC and LA. ?But this cart (and this one ONLY!) is soooo good. Get the combo plate and some extra sauce on the side. ?I dare you to be more satisfied for $7.
A must when in town. ?Combo is okay, but it's really all about the chicken. ?Everything, from the free form nugget-y meat chunks to the extraneous pieces of pita on the side that no one seems to eat is downright fantastic after a long night. Load it up with "white" sauce (which suspiciously reminds me of a sugary mayo) but take it easy with the red. ?Even for those of you who like things spicy - the hot sauce is just beyond. ?A couple dots should do ya. Oh yeah, and one more thing: none of the other Halal food carts are worth going to. ?Everything else is standard, only worthy if in drunken and immobile desperation. ?There is only 53rd and 6th.
The lamb over rice at 53rd and 6th is amazing. ?If I could I would breathe it. ?The simple combination of juicy gyro meat, aromatic yellow rice and God's own white sauce makes for the best meal in midtown, possibly the entire city. ?All this for a fiver. ?Seriously, someone actually got shanked because of this food. ?Think about that for a second. ?When was the last time someone craved anything so much that he stabbed the guy in front of him just to reduce the waiting time? ?Intense. ?Personally, I can only eat here once or twice a week. ?That's right, my body can't even handle all that awesomeness at once, it actually needs several days to recover. ? ? ? There's usually a shorter line during the lunch rush, so come around noon and save yourself some time...and maybe a dicey confrontation with the halal-food-crazed knife-wielding dude behind you. ?That said, eating this stuff does in fact make you a better person, so I would risk it anyway.
Ever since I started working on 53rd and 5th, I can't help but come over on my lunch break. To put it simply, this is one of the BEST chicken and rice carts you'll find in the city. The man has acquired so much of a following that other carts have pulled up to the area in hopes of tricking passersby. While the wait can sometimes be 30mins to 1hr long during the lunch rush, its well worth the wait as this cart is a testament to how good NYC street food can be.
These guys make the best chicken with rice in the city ... The line at this place is legendary .. Once I stood in the line for more than 80 mins once but it is worth every sec of the wait... I make a point to eat at this place whenever I am anywhere near to this place.. The hot sauce is just amazing .. but beware its extremely spicy..
I hate this cart. So why not give it 1 star? Because they won. They got me to stand in line for 30 minutes AND got me to take the time to write a review. That's probably worth more stars, but I can't bring myself to do it. You guys - come on. I can understand a tourist from the middle of nowhere who has never had Middle Eastern food before to be super impressed by this cart, but get real. Total urban legend. Starting now, I will begin all introductions with "have you eaten at the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart? What did you think of it?" and depending on the reaction, it will be decided if we can be friends or not.
hahaha, what a great name for a halal cart, to name it after your street and avenue. ?i wonder which genius came up with it. ?wow, you people and your imagination. this cart appears to be open throughout the wee hours of the night. ?at the late hours, after clubbing, i sometimes hitch a ride with one of my drunk friends, (wait what?) and we'd drive by this place to see a line stretched down to the middle of the block. ?i'm talking 4-5AM cause we talkin new york city bitches. ? i came here to grab lunch a few times. ?if you get here at noon, its just setting up shop and there's no line. ?you could get your food right away. ?if you come at 1230 or after, then you're just a straight-up fool. ?the line is dumb long. ?whats that? ?you know a secret? ?there's an identical cart right across the street you say? ?yeah its not a secret, everyone knows about that as well and the line is equally as long. ?there's only one secret to this place, come at 12. ? as for the food, i've only had chicken and lamb with rice here. ?its only $5. ?the hot sauce is spicier than other halal carts. ?they throw in salad and a couple pieces of pita along with it and the amount of food they give you is massive. ?i always have a hard time finishing it. ?there are two different experiences whenever i eat here. ?your first few bites are great. ?you start to contemplate if this is the best halal food you ever had. ?a white cloud forms on the side of your head and other carts you have eaten at before pops in that cloud and your finger is tapping your chin. ?hmmmmmmmm. ?but the more you eat, you start to get a bit sick, stuffed and get the runs. ?you remember how great it was at first so you try to capture that feeling back by finishing it. ?then you're left feeling stuffed with a bad last impression. ? at least that was my take on this cart. ?go to queens and eat at sammy's halal on 73rd and bdway. ?and find a new name.
This place is the best, hands down. People like this stand so much, that students at NYU have dedicated a whole club to the infamous halal, 53rd nd 6th ave (thats right even the address is famous now) Chicken and Rice. Personally, I prefer the lamb and rice over chicken and rice. Chicken is a little dry, but the lamb has just about the right amount of moisture and flavor. I used to have an internship in the 'NBA Store Building' (666 5th Avenue) and would eat this stuff all the time. I remember this one week where I had chicken and rice (lamb and rice actually) every single day. Most meals would make me sick from repetitive consumption, but not this place. If you are in the city, and have not yet had this wonderful dish, please end the suffering and try this place out. I have yet to find somebody who had something negative to say about this place. So go get some Chicken (or lamb) and Rice!
We were confused as to which cart it was at first since there were 2 right across the street from each other, but they're the same (notice their t-shirts, menu, and clothing). My friend and I shared the chicken and rice and it's good! It wasn't as delicious as I thought it would be - i think mainly because we brought it home with us and it was warm, not hot, by the time we ate it. The hot sauce is SUPER hot! My stomach is still churning this morning after eating it last night. The white sauce tasted like ranch to me, but if you mix the ranch and a little bit of hot sauce, it tastes really good. I'd recommend 2 people sharing as we could only finish 3/4 of it.
holy halal! i got the gyro over rice and the gyro sandwich. ?it was the best tasting flavorful gyro i have ever eaten. ?the white sauce is some kind of magic in my mouth and the spicy sauce is really spicy, which is a good thing!! i inhaled both...only$10 for two dishes! they are not stingy with their meat and hot and fresh! what else more can you ask from a cart on a street?? deli-ci-o-so!
I'll admit I'm skeptical of carts at times. But this cart is like hitting the jackpot. I've gone to this location late night with friends and the chicken and rice is a must for me! The lines can be real long but so worth the wait. I've been going for years and it's never disappointing.
While I used to love these guys, the long ass line is pretty overrated. ?I used to be one of the sheep thinking that since the line is longer, the food must be the best, but really it's not the case. ?Plus, I noticed THE GUYS HANDLING MONEY WERE ALSO TOUCHING ACTUAL FOOD WITHOUT GLOVES. ?That's f*cking disgusting! ? (and I mean touching the pita with their bare hands, chopping the chicken & lamb and their hands touching the meat on the sides). ?And what's up with the stupid white sauce containers? ?They didn't always do that and it's annoying. Here's a tip: ?Walk your butt to the other side of the block to the cart on 52nd and 6th- same block, don't cross any streets. ? The food is just as good, if not better, and you're not waiting for an hour to get it.
A delicious bargain! We walked by this Halal cart before and after watching a Broadway show and were surprised to see the consistently long line. Like a good Yelper, I did my due diligence and learned all about this place (including a convenient fact - it's open until 4am) and carefully planned out our visit. Last night we got in line right around 7:10pm and waited for about half an hour until the food was ready; almost immediately a small crowd started to form. Standing at the head of the line, I was privy to watching acquaintances of the operators and regulars, including an NYPD officer, conveniently navigate to the front of the line and attempt to get their food before us. It was worth the wait despite the intense cold. We paid $6 for a combo platter consisting of rice, lettuce (no tomatoes in this "salad"), three pieces of pita, a mound of chicken, and a generous scoop of lamb gyro. One platter can last you two meals, unless you've got a voracious appetite. (By the way, is there a secret code word for getting the $5 price that I keep reading about here?) ? What sets this place apart from other Halal carts is (1) consistency, (2) cleanliness, and (3) limited menu. These guys have mastered their craft well and the cart and cooking surfaces are pristine. You won't see bits of food clinging to the cooking surfaces and you certainly won't see uncooked meat laying out collecting dust and all NYC air has to offer; the food is fresh and doesn't sit around. The cooks are methodical, almost scientific in their approach. The cook started with pieces of chicken that he carefully chopped into smaller and smaller pieces, eventually forming a small mountain of chicken. After the chicken was "done," he covered the mountain of chicken with pita (possibly to infuse the pita with the fragrance and flavor of the meat or to keep the meat warm - either way, the pita was delicious and the meat warm). Then he moved onto the gyro pieces using the same methodical chopping and scraping technique, culminating in a cheap and satisfying meal. A note on the sauces: the white sauce, which tastes suspiciously like ranch dressing, and the chili sauce, which is pretty spicy - but manageable, complement each other well.
I've always been given two snippets of advice when coming here: 1) Drench it with all the white sauce you can get. 2) Go easy on the red sauce. If you get it to-go, they give you this little container of red sauce that is WAYYYYY hotter than what's in the communal bottles. ?After a 45 minute cold ace wait, this round container of hot chicken, rice, lettuce, and pita was worth every penny of my $6. ?I do admit that it needs a lot of white sauce. ?Even if you think you have put a lot, it gets absorbed by all the rice and you'll find yourself needing more. You may think that with all the halal carts around, maybe people just want to wait in a line that's already long... which in turn just makes it longer... and draws more people. ?But in this case, it's not a matter of monkey-see-monkey-do, it's JUST THAT GOOD!!!
So, I really don't think 53rd and 6th needs their 435th review but I'll still post. Delicious. Cheap. Bountiful. Yummy...but not the hot sauce, which was unbelievably spicy. Waiting in line: 20 minutes Cost of food: $6 Cost of water bottle from cart across the street: $1 Buying my food and eating it to tease the other folks still standing in line: Priceless. I'll be back, 53rd and 6th. Wait for me !
NY = BOMB ASS STREET FOOD! We got there around 12:30 AM (beating the drunk crowd whohoo!) and there was already a long line starting to form down the street. ?Given the popularity I was skeptical to see if it was only tourists who went here. ?When I saw cab drivers and cops in line waiting for the food it reassured me. It had to be good if locals were willing to wait in line. Although it was a long line it went fairly quickly. ?I had the lamb and chicken and couldn't believe for all that food it was only $5. ?There was probably enough food for three people to share! ?I smothered on the white sauce and inhaled my food. ?Damn, it was just as good as everyone raves about. ?Chicken was tender and not overly flavored. ?It went perfectly with the rice and white sauce. ?I wasn't a fan of the texture of the lamb but when mixed with everything else I couldn't really tell the difference. For $5 bucks it was probably one of the best meals I had in NY. ?Drunk or sober this street food is DELICIOUS!! Halal cart can you please come over here to San Francisco?
Yes, it's good. Yes, it's worth the wait, and in my opinion, the best halal in the city. To all the critics, I have indeed had this stuff sober and it's still as amazing at 3 in the afternoon as it is 3 in the morning with the drunken munchies. Definitely get the chicken and lamb combination. Don't bother getting extra white sauce which is good for other carts in the city but here they do a substantial amount to begin with. Also be VERY sparing with the hot sauce which is intense.
I must sheepishly admit that I've only had the lamb and rice bucket o' food sober and during daylight hours. Yes, I waited in the line, and I've consumed this cheap feast fully cognizant of waaaay too much salt and other ingredients I'm sure I don't want to know about. It's a great place to take out-of -town visitors for hyped up street meat, but I always feel rotten after eating it. Quality of life choices restrict my eating there to just once every 6 mos. or so (the time it takes me to forget just how awful and parched it makes me feel for the duration of the evening.) I can't imagine eating this after a night of drinking, where you need all available water molecules to fight off the alcohol in your blood stream, aaah!
It was my 3rd night in NYC. My friend and her brother came here after an 'interesting' night in a New York City bar. I only stayed at that bar because I was promised the best chicken and rice I would ever have in my mouth. Our cab driver apparently loves this place as well. One point for halal cart! The late night bar hoppers had not made their mass exodus so the line was pretty short. Once I got my plate of goodness I immediately added the white sauce and famous hot sauce. How famous is this hot sauce? How hot could it possibly be? I went deaf for a few minutes! My mouth, throat and ears all burned at once. 2 points! Holy crap. 20 minutes the roof of my mouth was still throbbing.... Now that's some good shit. 1 more point! The rundown: $6 Line moves fast Best for late night munchies and those who need to sober up.
The meat is pretty good, but the sauces are very very meh. ?The hot sauce is way too hot, which they use to cover up the flavor of the chicken and the lamb. ?Couldn't taste the white sauce with all the heat from the hot sauce. ?Doesn't compare to, say, Sammy's on 21st and Park.
best damn chicken lamb beef rice late night ever anythime im in the city late im on that line excited lol but please be careful of the hot sause it will burn your insides out liteally
sorry to burst your bubble, but it ain't all that. maybe it's because i've never had halal before and maybe because middle eastern food is not my food of choice so i really don't have much to compare it. although i'm sure if i had tried it at 3am and was drunk, the experience would have been much better. i tried this on a tuesday night around midnight and to my disappointment, there was virtually no line. maybe if i had to wait 2 hours in line and was starving, then the food would have tasted better. i got the chicken and rice & shared it with 2 friends. portions are huge. the red sauce was extremely hot and only got spicer in your mouth. the white sauce, which i saw people drenching their food with tasted like ranch. it was just OK. i would say give it a try if there isn't a long. i'm from LA and i think its worth 2 hours for the kogi truck, but not this.
My wife and I had the Lamb Gyro and the Chicken and rice plate. ?I wish we had discovered this place earlier durin our visit to NYC. ?I would have gone back multiple times....
I think it would have been better if I had been drinking more. Really good rice though. The tahini and spicy sauce definitely bring me back to my Cal days when I used to frequent the now closed Meesha's. The pita bread was absolutely to die for. I wish I had more of an appetite for it at the time. You'll recognize this cart as the one with the huge line attached to it. Don't be fooled by the imitators near by! Next time chicken and rice, I will experience you as you were meant to be experienced: druuuuuunk.
Which following sentence is a myth? a. All street food is the same. b. All chicken over rice is the same. c. All halal vendors at the intersection of 53rd and 6th Ave are the same. d. The halal cart on the southwestern corner of 53rd and 6th ave is the same no matter when you get there. e. All of the above.
the reviews say it all. this place is a little piece of heaven at 4am on a saturday night. SO GOOD...i'm still thinking of it more than a week later. quick tip: get half chicken and half lamb. that way u can get the best of both worlds. i'm hoping this becomes a west coast phenomenon sometime in the near future! ...and unless u think u can handle it, STAY AWAY FROM THE RED SAUCE!!
I better make this quick, because I'm sure that the "sheep" that are loyal to this cart are going to have a hitman after me. I was chauffeuring my mom and friends last night to the Christmas Spectacular at Radio City last night, so I knew I was going to be in the area for chicken and rice. I get on line right before 9pm and, I swear, there were about 40 people in front of me. But the thing is, I was served and out of there within 15 minutes, which is still great. The food, however, left alot to be desired. Yes, it tasted good with the copious amounts of white sauce doused on the chicken and rice. But without the sauce, it tasted really, really bland. I have a cart near my office that serves chicken and rice, for the same price. Yes, they don't give the same amount of food as 53rd and 6th, but at least there is some sort of taste to their food. I hardly put any sauce on it. Oh, and I sampled just a little bit of the hot sauce. Just a little, tiny eeny bit. As soon as I tasted it, smoke started coming out of my ears, my hat flew off because the steam of the heat was overwhelming. to say the sauce was hot is an understatement. It was as hot as Angelina Jolie in "Hackers" - that hot. So there you go. I will be back, no doubt. But if the line is too long, I'll just mosey on over to Carnegie or something.
Be prepared to wait for more than 40 mins -- i arrived at 7:00pm and got my food at 7:50pm. Better to order take-away cuz it's gonna freeze before u finish it :( Lamb is the best. Add A LOT white sauce. I will definitely come back again but probably in summer cuz it's freezing eating outside right now.
Happy that the 53rd and 6th guys are expanding: midtownlunch.com/2008/08? midtownlunch.com/2009/12? Sad that they're only expanding a block at a time, which means it'll be the year 4312 when they finally get to California. :-*(
the white sauce is so good we once tried to steal a bottle. fail. the hot sauce: a little goes a LONG way. id wait in that long line sober. ? ....not that i ever have. ?but i totally would!
Great deal. Best Halal cart I've had. Really rounds out a trip to the MoMA. In fact, it's a great excuse to go to the MoMA. The lamb doesn't taste like lamb, but I love it. The chicken is whatever, but the lamb is must-get. I adore how there's so much white sauce that the whole top of my plate is white.
All my friends call this place "Chicken and Rice" so when I first came here I tried the chicken and rice plate, which wasn't anything special. ?Also, I was sharing with 2 other friends, so we didn't put enough white sauce or red sauce on it, in my opinion. Then another night, I came here at around 3-4am on a Thursday night/Friday morning and there was no line, which was pleasantly surprising. ?This time, I tried my friend's lamb plate, and he had put sufficient amounts of white sauce and hot sauce, and it was really perfection on a plate. Beware, the red sauce is pretty hot!! However, I don't know if this food is worth the hour long wait when it's busy. ?Definitely worth trying at least once though. Don't get the chicken! Get either the lamb/chicken combo or lamb. ?It tastes way better. ?At $6 a plate, it's a pretty good deal because they give a lotttt of food.
Lame! Their rice is dry and their lines are long. Skip the wait and get the decent halal over moist yellow rice two blocks up at 55th and 6th ave.
As good as it gets. Stick with the lamb over the chicken, the chicken can be dry, though usually the white sauce will cure that anyway. Beware the hot sauce, it's as strong as the others say it is. They also run a cart on the other side of the street without the ridiculous line.
OHHHHHH LORDY LORD! ?it was amazing... one of the most wonderful things I have ever eaten in my life. ?AND it was broad daylight and I was 100% sober. ?I've never had halal food before, it was the first thing I ate in Manhattan, and nothing I ate afterwards lived up to this. ?And it was cheapie! ? There was only a small line, but it was around 2 in the afternoon. ?Be careful, there are a bunch of impostors around that look almost exactly like it. ?Yes the truck parked next to the cart looked disgusting and I'm pretty sure there was stuff dripping out of it, but I didn't care after I took my first bite. ?I practically scarfed the whole thing down in my mouth. ?The hot sauce will burn ya, but it makes the taste so much more satisfy. ?I was tearing up, but I was oh-so-happy. ?The whole plate looks pretty gross and kinda resembles throw up when you mix it all together, but it is a party in your mouth once it touches your tongue! ?If only we had something like this in LA...
Been going here since 2006, the portions have gotten a little smaller & they raised the prices by a dollar. However, the food is even better then I remember each time, always have more then enough leftovers to take home. I always get the lamb since I don't eat chicken, at $6 a plate. Best spot in the city for late hours, especially for the weekend. Deserves 5 stars because they're consistent, makes great food at a decent price & I'm willing to make the trip from queens!
For late night craving, wherever i am(even when i'm not in NYC) i crave Chicken and Rice above all else. It is the most amazing food to eat after a night out on the town. The hot sauce is so hot you feel burning and lose all sensation. It's a cheap eat, but an amazingly delicious one.
On Friday night, I got into New York pretty late. But not too late that we were too tired to meet friends for a few drinks nearby our Midtown hotel. Since we hadn't eaten since 3 or 4 pm, our friends took us to the street cart at 53rd and 6th to get some platters. I never knew this, but 53rd and 6th is known to be the best street meat in NY. What other street meat cart actually has it's own website? I got chicken and my BF got lamb/gyro. I must admit that I liked the gyro better than the chicken. The white sauce, which was kind of like taziki, was great, but watch out for the hot sauce. It's super hot. Even Jeannette and Dallas said so (not just wussy me). These guys serve on the corner of 53rd and 6th from 7:30 pm til 4:00 am, so check them out if you're in Midtown at bar close! There were a TON of people standing around the plaza there eating.
Awesome food. You can also eat there during the day for lunch as well.
The best of the best. The wait is long and they're not clean but you can overlook all of that when you first bite into that creamy white and hot sauce goodness. This cart is only open at 7:30pm. Don't be a tourist and fall into buying food from the cart during the daytime.
WOW. SMOKING HOT. Came here after a club bc more than one person recommended I get "chicken & rice" from this infamous corner. The line was long, almost like the line at a club. For 6 bucks you can get a combo of chicken and beef(?) and this orange yummy rice with pita and lettuce. The white sauce was insanely good. But I also put about the same amount of red sauce on my food with the white sauce. What a mistake! I can usually handle spice like a champion, but not this one. My mouth was on fire. It's a must do for NY visitors.
So one of my friends told me about this "chicken and rice" plate and how i MUST TRY it. I didn't think much of it, and when we got to the corner the line was about 40 people deep! I thought these people were CRAZY! my friend told me must go to this corner - this is the original all the other chicken and rice stands are just copycats. ?So, we indeed waited for about 45+ minutes and then came heaven! It was a freezing cold new york night and i digged into huge portion of hot chicken (can get lamb or combo of chicken/lamb), rice, lettuce, pita bread and the SPECIAL WHITE SAUCE! SOOOOOOOO GOOOOD. ?Note: watch out for the red (hot) sauce - my guy friends tried it and even thou they can take spice - their mouths were burning! the portions are huge - and only ran for $6. What a steal! ?I think i just put my face in for 5-10 minutes straight eating without breathing for how good it was! ? I had this for dinner and the next night after drinking we wound up at the cart again at 2am, this time no line! 2 thumbs up! indeed worth the wait!! make sure you stop at 53rd and 6th (across from the hilton) next time you are in new york! ?This vendor is open from 7:30pm - 4am. ?If you see another vendor selling not at these times - they are NOT THE ORIGINAL! ?Tip: If you are staying at the hilton - ask for a room with the cart view so you know when theres no line! :) Make sure you have cash - they don't take credit cards.
The sisters to the taxi driver: "STOOOOP!!! ?We'll get out here!" ?Born that fateful summer night: our love for street meat on 53rd and 6th. ? Having been raised in a restaurant-owner's family, we know that long lines + locals = good food so while my sister and I were vacationing in NYC for the first time, we had to stop when we saw this cart. ?It was 3am on a cold night, but regardless, there was a line of people 1/2 way down the block. We asked the folks in front of us what to get. ?Mixed plate was always the answer. ?Also: get the hot sauce on the side. ?OMG, yellow rice, chicken and lamb meat, white sauce and red hot sauce. ? I must have been back to this cart at least a dozen times since that night in '03 and will always make the halal truck stop when I'm in NYC. ?Beware of the fake cart there during the day. ?I have been fooled, but fool me once, shame on you. ?Fool me twice, shame on me. My order: mixed plate, extra white sauce, hot sauce on the side. ?Oh, make that two plates, I'll take one back on to Cali with me.
OVER-RATED. I am by no means a halal expert...but i do love food. ?my previous trip to new york, i had halal 4 times in 30 hours...disgusting i know, but hope it shows that i might know a thing or two. ? I keep hearing that 53rd and 6th is the best halal in new york...but i don't see why. ?I've had better at other carts. ?For one, the rice is very small and thin...when i saw it, i thought it was shredded cheddar cheese! ?I like my rice full and flavorful...instead i got small and chewy. ? The white sauce and hot sauce (reviews are true...red sauce is scary hot) came in separate containers, perhaps too many people had asked them for it separately...i like it served with it...ordered the combo and cost $6, also a bit more than my favorite cart (86th and broadway). ?The chicken and lamb were cut too small for my taste. ?Larger chunks would keep the seasoning and flavor better in my opinion. ? It's not bad...just not as good as the world claims it to be. One man's opinion...take it for what its worth.
i love this place, but I'm not sure if it's because it's not available in Boston, or because every time I come here, I've had a few drinks... But anyways, it's a must visit every time i'm in the city. Hmmm, delicious-ness. Love the red spicy sauce!
Seriously, the best Chicken & Rice I've had in the city! Something about the rice and the sauce just makes it so good! Plus the fact that it's super cheap! Usually we come when we're a bit tipsy after a night of drinking, and it tastes like the best thing ever! But I actually did stop by during the work week and it's still just as good my friends! If you're in the area, or even if you're not, and you're craving Chicken & Rice, you should totally check this cart out!
I'd like to confess that I suffer from SAD. Seasonal Affective Disorder. I hate rain. So of course, when it was raining, I didn't think anything could make it better until my brother suggested "street meat". So he tells us what intersection to meet him and we start looking for a damn restaurant called Street Meat. WTF, more details please!! Apparently, he was referring to this Halal cart. Whatevs about the misguidance, but DAMN about the Halal. Sooooo good!! It's like lettuce, with all kinds of meat and yellow rice, in a bowl with special white sauce. Nyum, yum, yum. Just wikipedia it. It's huge too!! And it comes in easy-to-carry packaging that I appreciated. Oh lordy lord, help me, Obama!! I wish they had these carts in LA! Or do they? ~looks behind curtain~
If I was stranded on a desert island & could only have one type of food for the rest of my life, I'm pretty sure there'd be a street meat cart parked on the beach. ?I'd have to go with NY's Best across the street, but this one would be #2.
Yum yum yum! Crap all my friend and I could think was how could we bring this to LA! It's like crack in a bowl. ?So yum with the white sauce and the "let me burn my ass" hot sauce. ?Drunk or sober the chicken and rice put a big smile on my face! the line is def worth the wait.. This was definately one of the highlights of my trip :)
Um, yeah, not much to elaborate here. My wait was only about 15 min. on a Saturday night and out of that $6 thing of chicken and rice I got -three- meals. Best Halal cart in the entire city!
5 stars... delicious. Epic Win! I heard my friends rave about this place for ages but didnt finally eat it until my last visit to nyc. It went something like this Friends: Keon, you HAVE to try chicken and rice. It's soooo good!! Keon: yea, sure.. (in my mind thinking yea, yea, yea.. whatever) Friends: We are getting chicken and rice tonight after we come back from partying! Keon: Yea, sure.. (again thinking.. gosh why are these people so persistent about this chicken and rice) We get to the chicken and rice place and its like 3am in the morning. I look at the line and think OH GOD.. its long as hell. However, dont let looks fool you. This line moves very fast! As we get closer to the front of the line i notice it really does smell delicious. My friends informed me to get the lamb and chicken combo. 6 bucks later I have a delicious meal in my hand. You get a full meals worth for 6 bucks and its truly delicious. I'm sometimes wary of street food but you could see them cooking the chicken and the other food right in front of you. This did a lot to assuage any of my fears of this not being done cleanly. Everything was delicious and moist. You get a heaping portion of chicken and lamb, both are very juicy and rather flavorful. Included in your round container is some pita/naan like bread, and some lettuce. Make sure to put some white sauce on it. It adds to the yumminess! BEWARE of the red sauce. It is seriously the HOTTEST sauce I have ever eaten in life. And im not some wimp, im a foreigner and im used to hot sauce, ive even made my own hot sauce from habenero peppers. This stuff is INSANELY hot. Put a little bit in a corner, otherwise you'll start crying hahah. So overall this food is excellent. You dont even have to be drunk to enjoy it. 5 stars om nom nom!
Pretty satisfying street food here. Supposedly, cart starts operation at 730pm. I was 10 mins earlier than expected but was relieved to see the guys starting prep but OMG there was already a queue forming.... I was probably number 10-15 and this queue just kept on expanding. By 745pm, the guys were ready to start selling, the queue had already ballooned to 50 peeps in line. No wonder they were able to support the massive 8-people operation, 2 trucks et al. Wow this is BIG money-making business indeed. Got the lamb and chicken combo. Smelled great when I was in the queue, tasted great when I had it at home. They were nice enough to pack me 2 of the white sauces (so I didn't even have to ask... and not sure if I would have asked for an extra since it's HEAVY mayo based - as I witnessed from one of the cardboard boxes the unloading guy threw out of the van. but since it's been soooo highly recommended and plus the fact that I was given 2 containers without asking, it was basically a guilt-free decision on my part) and 1 hot sauce (wow everyone cautions about the hot sauce but the tiny container wasn't enough for me. Next time I'll be sure to ask for an extra). I guess I must have been distracted by the long queue for I meant to ask for extra veg (lettuce) and forgot about it. Overall, the combination of chicken, lamb, rice, veg, white and hot sauce made for a pretty satisfying meal. Frankly the portion was probably more suited for 2 people or a 2 meal consumption (TALK ABOUT VALUE FOR MONEY!) but I ended up going overboard and consuming the entire thing even though I was stuffed halfway through. (TALK ABOUT OVEREATING - which I had to stay up real late to digest all that food).
This is a must stop whenever I'm in New York - been dining here for 15-20 years. Problem is, everyone knows about it now. The last few times there's been a 50-person line. Raining tonight, so walked right up. You simply can't beat this for $6.00. Lamb or chicken, rice, salad and pita. Pretty simple. I love hot sauce, but be careful of this one.
I'm still dreaming of chicken and rice and lamb swimming in delicious white sauce with a sprinkling of hot sauce. ?Over 600 reviews and 4.5 stars? ?'Nuff said, this is the epitome of good street food so I won't bother you with the details. ? We were starving and while I thought the 15 minute wait would be interminable, I think it enhanced the experience. ?Once my friends and I had commandeered our wares, we copped a squat at a nearby bench that unfortunately was surrounded by pigeons (my friend has issues with them). ?Those bastard pigeons were eyeing our food ferociously, and for good reason because it was just plain ol delicious. ?I can't even go into detail about how and why it was so good. ?I got chicken but should have gotten a half and half or gone for the lamb because my friend's lamb and rice was orgasmic! ? Good for lunch, great for drunk nights after the club. Quick, efficient service and yea the guy taking my order does get points for handing me my change, looking down my shirt, and saying "Nice, baby." ?That's exactly the kind of thing I was waiting for when I went to NYC and he didn't disappoint.
not the best halal out there. ?this cart is definitely over rated. ?if youre drunk and hungry im sure this is good. ?not worth the trip. THE BEST HALAL CART IS ON 46TH AND PARK. ?they are only there during lunch hours on weekdays.
I'll preface this by admitting, I am not from New York. I decided to visit my little sister on the Upper West Side and was told to get the 'chicken and rice combo with white sauce' at this local landmark. Cost me $6, add another $1 for a bottled water. Surely, I was not disappointed. I can't say much more about it that hasn't already been said in the nearly-400-some reviews on Yelp. The food is delicious. The meat is seasoned and cooked well. The white sauce is good... IN MODERATION. It disgusts me to see some people just glaze their entire platter with liquid fat. Their hot sauce is FIERY. You might sweat a little, and it might be painful. It's one of those burning pains that reminds you that you're alive. Don't be a pansy, just try it. I now understand why this place is so popular. I ate here twice during my trip and while the line may seem daunting at times, it moves at a steady rate. The service is forgettable, but who cares? At the end of the day, you're getting a delicious hot meal for 6 bucks -- a rarity in Manhattan, apparently -- and given today's economy, you'd be a fool to complain about that. (I originally thought about giving this place 4, not 5, stars because (in my mind) cart/truck vendor food in the Bay Area (Oakland, specifically) offer better food, in higher quantities, at lower prices. But for NY, it's very deserving of 5 stars.)
The best meal I had in NY - and that's after eating at Peter Luger and Les Halles, earlier that day. ?We ordered a chicken/lamb combo - the meat was tender and surprisingly not greasy. ?And the sauces definitely complete the meal. ?I will definitely eat here again, even if I'm only in NY for one night.
The best halal truck I've had in Manhattan & Queens. It's not as packed with rice and meat as it was in the past, but the past portions were enough for two, so the combo is still a great deal at $6. I love how it's not as oily as some of the other carts I've had. And yes, it's a great after MoMA treat, when the line is usually no more than 3 people long. I've walked here after Broadway shows in Times Square, and the crowd at night is insane (even in the most frigid weather).
After a late evening dinner at Peter Luger's my friends and I still had cravings for more food. After hearing from all the locals on where to go we had to try this place out. It's funny to see all the carts around the neighborhood completely empty while this place has a line that can stretch for a whole block! We arrived around 11 pm since they come around 7 in the evening anyway and waited for about 20 minutes before we got to order. The people in line are nice and it was cool making conversation with people who grew up in New York. Since it was my first time there,I naturally went with what everybody suggested, the combo of chicken and lamb and boy was the food good. It came in a nice aluminum plate and I can tell you that you need to put tons of white sauce on top. If your a little more adventurist then put a good helping of the red sauce on for some kick. The chicken and lamb itself was amazing as it was a nice change in pace than what I am use to eating. The chicken was moist and soft which made chewing that much easier. Now to be honest I'm not much of a lamb kinda guy but for the first time in a while I didn't mind eating it. It kinda tasted like beef and the best word to describe it is savory. The only thing from keeping the score from being perfect is the rice. I have eaten a lot of rice in my life and I can tell you it tasted a little like cardboard. Now I don't know how they do it here but maybe it's because it was cooking for too long, or that's the style it's made... I don't know. I know for a fact that I needed to put tons and tons of white sauce in order to negate the taste. Outside of that this really is a place you should try out at least once in your life.
I really hated this experiace. To start, this has got to be one of the dirtiest corners in Manhattan. Patrons of this business seem to think it's ok to leave used napkins and plates about. I ordered the falafal with hot sauce and white sauce, and they were all terrible. The falafal was greasy, the pita was super market variety, the white sauce was a watery, flavorless disappointment and the hot sauce was just hot, no flavor! I think if you're not hammered there is no way to eat this and feel a anything but a strain on your upchuck reflex and a sad lack of $5. After we had this for dinner, we got Jamba just to get the taste out.
Its been a year in the making, but I finally went and got some Chicken and Rice from the famous 53rd and 5th vendor. I was pretty hungry when i got there and the good was pretty good, but I don't get what all the hype is about. ?There are other vendors that i think are just as tasty. ?The hot sauce is hot, but Mamoun's is probably 20x as hot. If I am in the area I will get some, but i probably won't be making any trip to 53rd and 6th for halal cart.
Seriously, yelpers? ?What the hell was this? Ok, so we're in our hotel room on 46th and we're hungry and we don't know where to go eat. ?Yelp to the rescue. "Oh honey! Look at this magical cart, it's got over 500 reviews, and everyone has given it 4 stars, it must be good, let's go there!" ? "Hmmm, chicken? rice? white sauce? ?I'm game, let's go" And that's how we ended up at the infamous cart. ?We waited in line about 40 minutes, very excited to try this food. ?There are people scattered up and down at least 2 blocks, inhaling this food. ?We poll the people around us, all great reviews. ? We both get the chicken and a soda from the adjacent cart. ?We find a clear spot to sit and eat waiting for this treat and we're like, no. ?It's not even good, it's just okay. ?Look folks, I live in Glendale, CA. ?Little Armenia, there's Middle Easter cuisine all over the place. ?You want good chicken and rice? ?I'll take you to Sevan's around the corner. ?This cart ain't it. ?I wish I could say it was a case of being let down becaue of the build up, but it really wasn't. ?I've had so much better. Don't waste your time.
Prefacing this review, it is mainly from my brother eating the food and my observations of him doing so since I cannot actually eat @ this cart. ? In NYC for a whole week and at all hours of the day, every day this line was longer than a line for a Broadway show, almost as long as the Free Friday line at the MOMA, just about as long as the lines @ JFK, yet the wait went quicker than trying to get a taxi @ rush hour or waiting around for the 1 subway when you wanna get your drink on in the Village. My brother said this meal was soooo good and to quote Tony, he said "look, it is like crack everyone is standing around in a haze memorized by their meal and practically eating their fingers" The reason why it gets 5 stars from me is because I saw several bums and freegans dumpster diving to create their own mountain of Halal. Now that has got to be some good shit.
I've only eaten from the cart from the Halal Guys that is on the east side of 53rd (across the street from the "original" cart), because the "original" cart has literally 5-6x more people in line. People start lining up way before the carts open for business. For the price (less than $5), this is a really good meal in the city. I don't think it necessarily is OMG gourmet good, as there are probably other undiscovered halal carts hiding around that are just as good or possibly better, but not as publicized; I give it 5 stars maybe because although I haven't tried many halal foods, I'm falling for the hype and loving this cart's offerings. The Halal Guys certainly make a cravable meal. I like the chicken and rice platter, to go, with hot sauce and extra white sauce. They are fortunately generous in their sauces. As other people say, the hot sauce is really hot. Best fresh, but "to go" just so I can customize my sauces as I like. I pity the stores/buildings beside the halal cart, because messy people will sit and squat anywhere to chomp on this stuff. It'd be nice if they franchised more locations, like the UES, please!
Food is very good but a little spicy. The line is always too long!
Somehow everytime I eat here, and i KNOW what's awaiting me after I finish this meal, somehow I always talk myself into eating it anyways. It would be disingenuous to say that this wasn't one of the better halal carts in NYC. BUT that doesn't make it THE halal cart of the century. Location is key, smack dab in the heart of midtown, once it caught on this place was sure to succeed. But I have to give them credit too. Their meats are well seasoned and likely hand-packed themselves. The hot sauce is straight fire from the lower depths of earth. Mixed with the right ratio of white sauce and you've got yourself a winner. The line is typically ridiculous. EVERYBODY wants a bite of 53rd and 6th. Can you think of anything else that exists on 53rd and 6th? the mall of the americas could move to this location and if someone asked you what they meant by 53rd and 6th you'd still say, "Oh yea, you mean 53rd and 6th, the halal cart? Still, late nights I make bad decisions and like the werewolf when the full moon is out, if if I'm in the area and its past midnight, thats a cue for me to uncontrollably crave this place. ****4 stars for being one of the best halal carts on the streets of Manhattan. Just stop with the dogmatic worship of this place. Eat at EVERY halal cart in the city, (they are popping up faster than the octomom can produce kids) THEN let's talk about who's the best.
Based on all these reviews, there is little I can say to illustrate just how good the stand is. Like almost everyone who has had chicken and rice, I heard about it via word of mouth. I had walked past this stand before, not knowing what it was, and ?I had always wondered why there was such a long line for a pretty common looking food stand. Back in New Jersey, people told me about some famous place in New York, where people would travel all the way from NJ, JUST to get some white sauce. I heard that people would go there, and fill up an entire aluminum bowl with some famous white sauce, because it was so good. I wasn't that interested, until one night I happened to be in the city with a friend. We waited in line, and got the chicken and rice platter, and poured some white sauce on. It was unbelievable. There is literally nothing I could compare this to. It's just something you have either had, or haven't (as their motto goes). The platters consist of some rice, lettuce, pita bread, and your choice of chicken, lamb, or a combination of both. As other reviewers have suggested, don't bother getting the wraps; they are greasy, and not even comparable to the platters. Of course, some people I told this to, ignored my warning, and found out the hard way. To this date, while I was in the tri-state area, I have made it a point to introduce any friends and family to 53rd and 6th. Nobody has been disappointed. It reached a point where we literally went all the way to New York, just to get some chicken and rice platters, and then head back. In the FREEZING East coast blizzards, I have waited in long lines, just to get a platter. I have stood out in the biting cold, with my fingers and face numb and burning, still eating my platter. Half way through, my rice and lettuce had frozen, and the chicken and lamb had become almost rock hard, but I STILL ate! I have walked the mean streets of Jersey City, early in the AM, holding some platters to take back with me. That's how good it is. I have seen people literally take back GARBAGE bags filled with platters of chicken and rice, back to wherever they came from. And people came from all over: New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Long Island, Connecticut, all to get some chicken and rice, rain or snow, they will be there. The stand is open for business after 7:30 PM, until around 2:00 AM, if I recall. A little known (or at least believed) fact is that they operate from two stands; one is just across the street, on 5th ave. The lines are always on 6th ave though, because people assume the other one is a fake one. That is simply not true. The reason they have two stands, is so that one of them can dedicate their time to cooking up the meats, so that the main stand never runs out. I have purchased from the backup stand, and the food is EXACTLY the same. Do yourself a favor, avoid the line and buy from the second stand. On 5th ave, there is also a grotto type of area, next to China Grill, with plenty of concrete benches. It's a great place to sit down and eat (and hide from the winds in the winter), since there aren't too many places to sit on 6th ave. People have been KILLED over chicken and rice. You can't make this up! Just look up the famous stabbing incident. The platters are very cheap, between $5.50 to $6.00, at the moment. The employees are not unfriendly, given that they are New Yorkers, and run a very, very busy food stand. Make sure you have cash on hand, and know what you want to order when it's your turn. Also, load up on the white sauce; it's worth it. Whenever I'm back East, I will definitely hit up this stand.
Had a long list of gourmet spots to hit on our U.S. Open trip. We wound up eating the chicken and rice two nights. My wife wanted to take some for the plane ride the very next day. Who does that? This is the spot. Now I know we certainly weren't the first to draw that conclusion, seeing Gourmet Oct issue. We'll be back
I love Chicken and Rice soooo much. Holy crap, this stuff hits the spot when it's 2am, you're drunk or sober, it's just sooo good. Brought my cousin here. He is from Seattle and they have a fair amount of street food to hit up after going out, but nothing like this. He wanted to freeze his platter to bring it back home with him. One day the mystery of the white sauce will be broken, but whatever I don't care, just give me lots of it.
This is the one meal that I could eat for every meal of my life and not get sick of it. If I was stranded on a deserted island and had these guys there with me, life would not be so bad. If i am ever on death row and i get to request a last meal, they will be preparing it. I suggest to go straight lamb, lots of white sauce, and a side of the red. they offer chicken as well, and its still good, but you can get descent chicken anywhere, this lamb is actually sent to them daily from the lord on high. i live in LA now and i have dreams about the day i get to return to ny and wait in the hour long line to eat this heavenly food. an hour doesnt even seem long enough to wait for food this good. in my five years living in ny i had waited in the freezing cold, the rain, and in every other type of weather for my portion of halal. i will be offended if you dont like this place so just keep it to yourself. its also enough for two meals, but if you are a man you can finish it in one. its worth it. be careful with the red sauce, i can eat habaneros, jalepenos, and sriracha on cereal and not bat an eye, but this shit lights my fire with just a drop, if you mix it in with the white sauce real good though you should be ok.
I live in CA. ?I still think about this cart when I think about food or NY. Wish they would open ones in other states. I had the lamb plate 3 times in my 4 day stay in NYC. The real cart is open during the day on the southeast corner. At night it is on both the southwest and southeast corner. And they have one on 53rd and 7th. ?across the street from the sheraton towers. The sauce is way better than any yogurt sauce I've ever had. ?And the hot sauce is real tasty too. ?Everything is perfect about the lamb plate and if you get the pita. ?I think it is more of a flat bread because is real soft and perfect. And it so inexpensive. ?And the portions are huge. ?My wife and I end up just sharing one plate. The imposters are on the southwest corner during the day. ?They have yellow shirts with no logo. ?And they don't have the logo on their plastic bags. ?They are jerks too. ?Someone in their line was leaving their line and I told them the real guys are across the street. ?They started going crazy and yelling at me.
Went to this place around 2am in the morning and didn't have to wait that long in line! There were two carts at 53rd and 6th and we weren't sure which one was the original cart, but decided to go to the one with more people. ?The aroma of the food smelled delicious as you walk toward the cart and even stronger once you are officially in front of the cart. Once we ordered the food, we knew we came to the right place because more people started coming and lined up for the incredible dish! We got the chicken and lamb and got the white and hot sauces on the side. Since it was freezing cold, we took the food home to eat. I usually don't eat lamb, but the grounded lamb in this dish was really good and didn't have that distinct smell at all. I think that the combination of the chicken, rice, lamb, pita bread and sauces were really good together. I'm sure that if we ate it fresh off the cart, it would have been better, but it was still really good. The hot sauce was crazy SPICY but once I started eating it, I couldn't stop! Then about 2 minutes later, the hot sauce kicked in and I swear my throat was on fire! I would definitely come back since the portions are good the prices are reasonable and the hot sauce is addicting!
I read about this spot in my tourist book (hush your snickering) but didn't really understand the hype until various people told me i HAD to go here. went in the early evening to "pre-eat" before our "real" dinner--ending up totally gorging on this and it was awesome. ? Get the chicken plate with extra white sauce but get the spicy sauce on the side. it is insanely spicy, so under all circumstances do not let them slather the sauce across your plate--even if you think you are an inferno bad ass DO NOT DO IT. actually... i dare you to try it but don't come crying when you can't handle it. Also beware of copy cat carts around the area- they are not all created equal!
It's been a funny eating week. First of all I eat in a mall food court, then a chain restaurant and now I'm chomping on a lamb gyro from a New York street cart. One food adventure too far? Hell no! After a three week diet of bland hotel food this spicy, hot and juicy delight hit all the right buttons. Only slight criticism is the lamb was cut up a little too small, lose a star, but it was still succulent goodness in light fluffy, bread, with the right amount of salad, an outstanding white sauce and a harissa hot sauce with just the right amount of heat. I could get addicted to this.
after half a week of eating garbage food ($40 for breadwiches full of meat? pshhhhhhh) this place was so on point. and the price? you cant even buy chips and a drink at some places for that price. meat, rice, salad, and that ranch sauce? HIT. its so good that for the first 5 mins i stuffed my face then started to shovel food into my mouth at 10 minute intervals. the gyro/chicken and the rice and the white sauce marinated together so well. and the pita? boobie soft. last night i waited in line before they even opened up shop. took another hour until they were ready to start serving and the line was already 20 deep. worth the wait though.
I often stay at the Hilton, fly in late from California, and am amazed to consistently see throngs of people on line at midnight, 1AM, 2AM, and later for this food cart. In fact, the worst thing about this food cart is that there is almost always a line, and sometimes a line so long that you should realistically just go elsewhere. ?For example, once we gave up and walked over the Stage Deli for a 1AM snack because we didn't want to wait 30 minutes for a gyro. Food-wise, all I ever have is the gyro sandwich with both the white and the red-hot sauce (harissa). ?Like several other reviewers, I am a hot food guy who is rarely troubled by hotness, but boy-oh-boy is their harissa hot. ?Use in moderation. ps: ?I love that I can review a food cart on Yelp!
not sure how this particular cart became so much more popular than the rest of the other dozens of halal food carts..but hey, im not complaining..there's a certain novelty to lining up at 3am behind 20 other people for a solid foil plate of rice+chicken+white sauce goodness. I'm usually not a fan of street food ?but there's just somethng about this place!
supa dupa GOOD! had it during my trip to NY just last week... dunno if it was b/c i was buzzed or what the chicken n rice was the BOMB... too bad it doesnt open during day time minus one star cuz the wait was too long and it was such a COLD night in NY!
For months I have been dying to know what the fuss about "chicken and rice" is all about. And now, I understand. The line can get ridiculously long, but it goes pretty fast and is definitely worth the wait. The chicken is very flavorful and tender, really good rice, and an amazing white sauce that hits the spot. The hot sauce is delicious, but is super hot, so try a little first before dumping it onto the plate like I did. I love hot food and I was able to handle the heat until the very end..maybe 3 more bites left. And the whole experience of obtaining the food was just fun. It's the sort of place you have to go to every time you go to NYC.
To be one of the few voices of dissent on this place, has anyone actually tried this stuff sober? Don't get me wrong, i've had many happy, yet fuzzy memories of shoveling this stuff down at 4am in the morning after an 8 hour booze bender. ?It's all puppies and rainbows in that situation. ? However, I tried this place for lunch recently (the real cart, on the East side of 6th), and was pretty underwhelmed. First, the retarded wait. ?20 people deep for a $5 plate of street meat. ?Passing tourists questioned our sanity, as we whittled away a valuable lunch hour. Food in hand and $5 lighter (a bargain in any case), I dug in. ?Something was different. ?This tasted of over-seasoned, mushy, chicken and gummy rice. ?A too generous squirt of white sauce rendered the dish to a near baby food consistency. ?It was good, but in my sober state, I quickly grew bored with the dish which was heavy, mushy, almost dirty tasting. ? I'll probably continue to eat this stuff in a drunken stupor on any given Saturday night, but the liquor haze covers for a lot of sins. More 53rd & 6th Cart Coverage: ?midtownlunch.com/categor?
freaking delicious, but DO NOT UNDERESTIMATE THE HOT SAUCE.
Definitely as good as it's hyped up to be. Lamb over rice with white sauce and hot sauce is the way to go. Throw the guy $6 and be on your merry way to happiness. If you're in the neighborhood or if you're making the trek at the end of your night, it will not disappoint. It's really hard not to walk and eat when you can smell the food when you're carrying it to your eating destination (whether it's to the benches on the block or back home). I suppose without the white sauce it would be too dry, but it all combined....heaven. Plus the lettuce gives it a good crunch once in a while. And since it's such a huge serving of food, you'll have enough for lunch the next day's lunch. I managed to pick up my food without a wait at 4:45pm... obviously not the ideal time for a meal, but I was hungry so it worked out well for me. Usually that line is waaaaaay longer.
I don't know what else to add. ?Yes I know it's cart food. ?I know their sauces are essentially mayo and chili sauce. ?I know it's just chicken...over rice...with some lettuce and slices of pita bread. ?I know. But it's some of the best damn food in New York.
Alcohol. Get in line. Chicken and rice. A SMALL DAB of red sauce. And you're set. It definitely isn't the best thing ever created but, when you're on the way home from the bar and have the time, you've gotta stop and give it a go. For emphasis, I repeat, do NOT over do it on the red sauce! (Thanks to Allie for the heads up!)
Brought here by some friends after a night of fairly hefty drinking (in the Lower East Side mind you...). ?Now, don't get me wrong-the place is decent. ?The long line while drunk and only wanting to take a leak and crawl in bed, not cool. ?Who waits 15-20 minutes for street meat? ?Really, who? ?Well, I guess my friends do... So, we get our flimsy metal bowl stuffed full of lettuce, rice, and chopped to hell chicken, pour some white sauce over the whole mess, sit in the conveniently located seats outside the large office building, and shovel away. ?It was filling-enough for two of us to split one bowl, and tasted decent (while I was drunk at least...), but still-that 20 minute wait killed it for me. ? If your in the area, drunk, and happen to pass by (who the hell goes out for a night on the town in this area...???), it's an okay spot to give a try, but shit...driving uptown specifically to wait on this ridiculous line to shovel 1500 plus calories down your face, of so-so food, not worth the gas....which is exactly what you'll be left with the next day!! = P
My favorite late night drunk food spot in Manhatten. ?Correctly, favorite late night drunk food spot period. ?There is a reason why we wait 30 minutes for food cart food in the cold. ?The chicken and rice is awesome but don't put too much hot sauce, they are serious when they say hot and no amount of yogurt will compensate. ?Last time I got the beef and rice, not the same but still good.
This is one of those places that I never checked out before, even though there is so much hype surrounding it. I was in the neighborhood today, so I figured I would see for myself and got a chicken & rice plate. It was ?not that good! The rice was sub par and the chicken was dry and not that flavorful. I am sticking to the Trini-Pak cart for my chicken & rice (and chickpea!) fix.
What the heck. So simple and so good and so heavy. It's the perfect snack after watching a wonderful musical. We waited about 20 minutes with a slight drizzle. That's not bad. I've had friends wait 45 minutes for this stuff in the winter. This was my hubby and my first time trying this so we opted for the combo with rice and pita, but we should have gotten just the chicken. It's really heavy, but you can't stop eating because it is just that good. Yes, the white sauce is good, but don't put too much. Or at least don't put it aaaaaaaaaaaallll on the plate if you're looking to save it for the next day. Your food will get way greasy. I think my plate in particular should have had more lettuce to offset the heaviness of the meat and sauce. YUUUMMMM... I drool.
Sure it was raining and cold out but that didnt stop us or all the people in line. ?Best $6 spent on a midnight snack to share with friends. ?The portions are huge and me and my 3 gfs were able to share an order.
Even though they've raised the price from $5 to $6, but I still feel like this is one of the best cheap finds in the city. ?Not only is this a great way to satisfy your food cravings after a night of partying, but it also provides for a great doggie bag for the next day (haha...that is if you don't gobble it all down the day prior). ?I am not a personal fan of lamb but for my friends who are, they say that the lamb here is probably one of the best they've had from a food cart. ?So your choices are either, chicken, lamb or a combo of each...the platter for $6 comes with rice, salad and pita bread. ?Now the chicken and rice will not be the 53rd 'n 6th ave chicken and rice without the sauces! The white sauce, which I believe is just mayo with other stuff added adds that extra creamy flavoring and the red sauce, gives it that extra kick (foodie beware though, if you are not good at handling spicy food, just a tiny drip of the red sauce is enough to send some taste buds on fire). ?Go check it out, you'll understand what I'm talking about once you have it. ?Oh and before I forget, there are other carts in the area too but this is the Halaal cart that's located on the SW corner of 53rd and 6th avenue. ?Still not sure? If you see a line, you're at the right cart.
When I used to work down the street from Halal Cart it was my lunch 2-3 days out of the work week. I think with this great weather, I need to head back over there and order some more grub from those friendly people. I always grab a gyro, because as you all know, I am a serious gyromaniac. I like to pour on the white sauce (wait...that doesn't sound right) and start devouring that sob asap. I do not care if I am a mess from it either. I have no shame and will walk around Manhattan dripping of gyro because it is so damn worth it. For the truly adventurous: The Ultimate: "Mix w/ Rice & Pita, Lotta White Sauce, Little Hot sauce and BBQ Sauce" (It includes all of the possible items) I wash all that carty goodness down with a Snapple and call it a day. Deeeelish.
After a year of salivating on newspaper and magazine articles about this food cart, I finally got to try it last night after nine hours of shopping with my mother (We all know how THAT goes, right?). Famished, tired, and near the area, I ordered a chicken over rice and a lamb over rice for the two of us and my sister, who met up with us afterwards. Was 53rd and 6th worth every hype? YES. Why? 1. The sheer volume of food. This is not your everyday Chinese food packaging they give out like other Halal food carts. They give you the circular pan kinds that can hold more food for a similar price: $6. Can you imagine how much money you save and how much your tummy will thank you if you buy that? 2. The simplicity and taste of the food. I've been to other food carts, ordered the same thing, but was left somewhat disappointed. The rice was too dry, or the chicken or the pita (or worst, all three). Plus, they tried to add in stuff like carrots and green peppers and onions. Big no-nos! A little bit of spice, a bit of cooking, some white sauce and red sauce and we're good to go! Which leads me to... 3. The speed of service. Very quick, and generally amiable-- a bit terse, but totally worth it. With lines that snake out like that, I would be like them, too. This is good (&cheap!) food, folks. Come and get it. Maybe not everyday. I don't know how it tastes while drunk, but it sure as hell tastes orgasmic while sober.
I am now a firm believer that not all halal carts are created equal. ?Thanks to Albert L.'s recommendation, we did a late night trek to this famous halal truck. ?We thought the line would be crazy, but there was nobody there but us. ?We even thought we got the wrong cart, but the guy insisted they're the ones, and even showed their website on the umbrella. ?They were the only ones on 53rd and 6th. ?We even walked to all the other 4 corners to make sure we had the right one. We told him we were from Cali, and it was our first time having halal cart food, so he recommended the lamb/chicken rice plate combo. ? I got extra white sauce and hot sauce. ?The hot sauce is HOT. ?My hubby likes to eat spicy things until he breaks a sweat, but this was a bit hot even for him. ?OMG! ?The dish was so good. ?I kept obsessing over it the rest of our time in NYC. ?It's like, why pay $40 for a bite somewhere, when we can split a combo at the halal truck for $7 and be in blissful heaven? With a bottle of vino in hand, we took our food back towards Times Square, and ate on those red bleacher things, while enjoying the warm air and a view of all the lights and people. ? ? We returned here on another night, around 2am, and still no crowd.....odd...
This cart ROCKS. It's where the after party is, after all. The line is usually really long and there's a wait, but it's worth it once you're near the front placing your order. I once saw friend A drop off friend B there just so friend B could wait in line while friend A parked the car. By the time he parked, the line had grown like another half mile. Good call, buddy. First time my friend told me about this cart, my thought was, "Yea ok, it's chicken. And rice. How hard is it to make that? I can make it. It can't be that good. It's made on a cart." Well, I ate my words that night. I always get the lamb and rice; I just prefer it over the chicken or the combo. They all come with hot sauce and white sauce, and there are bottles of both sauces at the end of the cart for the people who like extra. *raises hand to both* Just to let you know, I smother mine in a LOT of white sauce and hot sauce. What can I say? I love the heat and the calories.
We went to the famed 53rd and 6th Halal Cart for some late night grub. ?Even being late at night, the cart still had a line! ?It's got to be good! It was definitely some good stuff! ?Got the chicken and rice. ? The white sauce is tasty! ?Watch out for the hot sauce, it's on the spicy side!
Probably the best street food cart in new York. This halal cart is superior to any of the other ones. The meats are cooked just right and the white sauce is the best. I'm a hot sauce fan and I loveeeeee their hot sauce. I pour that junk all over my chicken and rice. Love it
This place came highly recommended by every new yorker we talked to. Since me and my friend were visiting from LA, this was on our list of must visit places, and it did not disappoint! As to be expected, there was a twenty minute wait. The food was worth the wait though. Can't complaint about the price either, $6 for a combination plate! The small chunks of grilled chicken and lamb covered the tin bowl full of lettuce, yellow rice, and pita bread. When covered with the white sauce and a dash of hot sauce, this was the perfect late night meal.
1 word: EPIC.
It is at the best average. Nothing great in my opinion. I have tested much better tasting chicken rice in downtown New York area. The first favorite is called Haje- he stands at the corner of Broadway and Beaver street. My second favorite stands on the Broadway and Liberty street- the one with the longest line and standing in the middle sandwiched b/w 2 fruit smoothie carts.
This place is evil. EVIL, I tell you. I mean. Uh. Ok. It has amazing powers of persuasion. My friend and I had gone to the MOMA for Free Fridays and on our walk out, he goes, "Oh, we should totally stop at the halal cart. It's pretty popular." Ding ding ding. Bells ring. ". . .you mean the halal cart at 53rd and 6th? AKA Yelp's most talked about cart?" He confirmed and I immediately said no. We continued walking and as I walked I said, "No! No way will I be won over by simple . . . pop. . .u. . .lar. . .OMG what is that amazing smell I MUST HAVE IT IN MY MOUTH NOW!" He just laughed at me as I zigzagged to find the smell. And lo and behold, it was the halal cart. *insert angels singing and hallelujah sounds* OMG. It was amazing. Heaven in my mouth. The combination of lettuce, rice, lamb, warm pita and WHITE SAUCE? I don't even know what was in that white sauce (and I don't care to know) but it slammin'. it was my first time eating lamb and I DIDN'T EVEN CARE! So yes. This will definitely be a stop again. I didn't even mind waiting 15 minutes for it. (The only reason it didn't get a 5 star review is because I recognize this for what it is. . . simple cheap street fare. But in my ratings for simple cheap street fare, this would be a 10 star review)
I know there are many "halal carts" in NYC, but there is only one "Halal Place"... forever more if I say Halal know it is THE ONE AND ONLY HALAL (on 53rd and 6th)... The "mixed rice" (Chicken & Lamb) is great (maybe best in all of NYC)... But the hot sauce IS the best in all of the NYC! I am talking about beyond just halal hot sauce... Hot sauce at any restaurant or store! Now don't go spilling the hot sauce in someone's car... They may not forgive you for a long time afterwards - now that is a separate story ;) For all you beautiful people out there... See you in line!
I waited an hour in the cold. It was absolutely worth it. I would do it again tomorrow. Bear the wait and you will be rewarded. Go heavy on the white sauce and light on the red cause it packs a punch. Order two so you can have an awesome lunch later, you already waited for an hour and it's only 6 bucks.
Thanks to my friend, I found one of the best meals in Manhattan. I am now sitting here at my desk in Fremont, California craving this deliciousness =( First night I arrived, she took me here, it was FREEZING, and I really unhappy about the 30 minute wait. I didn't realize it would be so worth it! I had the lamb and chicken combo over rice, smothered it in white sauce and even though I was warned, I over did the hot sauce. It was still divine. We came back a second time and standing again for half an hour with strong winds and rain was STILL worth it. I had lamb over rice this time. Oh HALAL CART! How I miss you so. Til next time, A devoted customer
My Ode to Street Meat.... oh bother, why even try to rhyme right now when my eyelids are sweating ?? ?(I didnt even know they could do that!) The hot sauce is friggin amazing and most likely the cause for the eternal line at this famous food cart. ?If you ask for more sauce, they will look at you and decide if THEY think you can handle it. ?If not, your request gets rejected.... lol - but they definitely know what they are doing b/c I can barely handle the normal amount given without two full glasses of water by my side :)
Either I just had good luck on my last trip to New York or my theory of the cold weather being a factor is correct, but the line at 53rd and 6th was only ten minutes long. ?Gone were the horror stories of the 1-2 hour waits for this vendor. The wait was so short that I wasn't prepared to order when I got to the front. ?What do I ask for? "Uh... four please?" ?Thankfully, based on my request, he figured we were from out of town and gave us the combo of chicken and lamb. I thought the chicken was dry, so I didn't care much for it (I did finish it though). ?The lamb was the clear-cut favorite for me. ?Mix that with the rice, pita, the white sauce (mmm, the white sauce) and the red (hot) sauce, and you've got a winner. ? After I inhaled my plate, I finished off my friend's plate. ?And then another friend's plate. ?I almost finished off a third friend's but I decided I shouldn't overdo it. ? Dang, I wish I had that plate with me right now. Dang, I wish we had something like that here in LA. Dang, you really need to check this out if you're visiting NY. Dang, dang, DANG.
i have a secret for you folks... actually i don't because if i tell you the secret, you won't have to line up for 20 minutes to get one of these pipin hot bad boys. but wow for 6 bucks to get a full freakin bucket of rice, lamb, and chicken is darn good. that yogurt sauce is dang good. the hot sauce, if eaten by itself, will burn your tongue to a flamin crisp, but he right amount is really nice. the food is really strongly flavored with herbs and spices and saltiness, but not so much that its just overpowering. its really good and you want to keep eating, even though i was already full from my previous meal. i wish i was hungry and went straight to this first. not only was it tasty, it was very filling and incredibly cheap. i dont think you'll really find a better 6 dollar deal in new york. 4.5 taste 100 stars for value average.. who knows, but only max 5 is given.
One of my favorite places to eat while in NYC, the gyros were excellent, but the lamb and rice just couldn't be beat. The white sauce isn't all that special, it's just Tzaziki sauce...
I literally just finished my first encounter with street meat and it was everything I ever thought it could be and more. For $5 I got yellow rice, a mound of lamb covered in hot sauce and cucumber sauce and a salad (for good measure). I really don't know what else you want me to write about that.. all that for $5! and It's awesome!! All in all, this is getting put into the lunch rotation, nuff said.
February 2009. New York City on the corner of 48th and 6th street. Clamoring out of a cheap comedy club with mediocre acts at 1:00 AM, I am spit out into a dilapidated alley. The clear skies above are no indication of the freezing conditions, leaving me and four Southern California habitants thinking the world is going to end. Without any sense of direction, we blindly wander toward what we thought was a subway station. As we walked, we approached 49th street. 50th. 51st. Suddenly, it happened. The most fantastic smell, the kind of thing angels are made from, wafted in the air. What on Earth could smell so great? Our olfactory sense stimulated, we began walking briskly to the source of euphoria. Then, we saw it, a haphazard line that looked like a line for a popular attraction at Disneyland on a busy summer night. In the far distance, an aluminum cart facing away from the street with four busy workers feeding the masses. This line would surely take forever, but the aroma made it impossible to pass up. Many people were walking away with a round, aluminum receptacle containing the goods. A couple in line said they drove all they way from Connecticut for the sole reason of getting this food. Of all the things the Big Apple has to offer, THIS is why they came from CT? Without warning, we were next in line. Where the hell is the menu? I hear one person shout chicken and another shout lamb. Clearly flustered by the pressure, I meekly say "chicken." A burly man with a ridiculous beard bellows "WHAT?!" and I cower and say chicken a little louder, but with a noticeable squeak in my voice. The man shovels rice into the tin, passes it down the line where it receives chicken, bread, and a bunch of other goodness. I forget how much it costs exactly, but its under 10 bucks, which is a bargain in NYC as far as I'm concerned. At the end there is this spicy red sauce that I generously pour over my, well, my feast. Nestling down in a corner in the freezing NY weather, and armed with a fork and an army of napkins, I lifted the cover and dived straight in. Before I took my first bite, my night flashed before my eyes. Could this meal erase the terrible comedy show that I threw down money for? It sure has hell did. My frozen brain couldn't comprehend how something could be so delicious from a cart that looked like it had less capabilities then one of those Fisher Price play kitchens. Like a perpetual motor, I ate the delicious meal without worrying about breathing, checking on my colleagues, or caring about the napkins being tossed about by the wind. The delicious rice, the spiced chicken, and the hot sauce was the most delectable thing I had had in NYC, if not all of the United States. Think that's hyperbole? I got up after I finished, got in line, and ordered the lamb entree. It's like lather, rinse, and repeat but with food. The lamb is definitely more delicious, assuming you like the strong flavor of tender, juicy lamb moreso than chicken. The rice is basmati, and is a perfect complement to the heaping pile of meat they give you. ? I didn't understand the allure of street food until I had the halal cart. Simply amazing. I can only imagine how delicious it would be if one is inebriated, but in my sober state, I enjoyed every bite. By far the worst part of the experience was walking away from the cart, trying to steal the aroma from that greedy air that arguably loves when the halal cart sets up shop. As I passed by the comedy club that I threw down 10 dollars for, I vowed that in the future, the only way to spend a night in New York is with the burly men by the halal cart. Hmm. There's got to be a better way to say that.
Second stop on the Magical Mystery Tour found me in a line waiting for some Halal (which I kept pronouncing "Khe-lel"). Ordering was easy, meat on rice. ?Extra sauce. ?Please keep the dog away from the cart. Actually eating the food proved to be an adventure in of itself. ?The plate was so hot I had to place it on the bench and squat like how my people do when they play cards. ?But when the food hits your lips, it's so GOOD. Very savory. ?Very hot. ?And about 3 minutes into it VERY SPICY. The hot sauce has to be some sort of mix of chilis and napalm, so dumping the entire thing into my bowl was not the smartest thing I've ever done. ?Somehow I got a bit on my nose and there was a slow burning that lasted until I was able to wash it off half an hour later. San Diego needs to get a bunch of these set up, because I could do this every night and not get tired of it.
SOOO GOOD! Fast, fun, friendly! Food came in a large portion for the price. ? I think I paid $5 for a 5 lbs. plate of salad, rice and lamb with all the dressing! ?It was a lot for not a lot of $$. ?Good thing this place is only 3 short blocks from my hotel. ?I might come back before I leave nyc. ? OH and did i mention? ?delicious too!
Okay, I was a tourist, so when my friend told me we had to WALK in the RAIN at 2AM to get Halal food from a cart...? There are Halal carts everywhere! Gotta be kidding me, right? NO This place is bomb. Everyone in my party had chicken, but I had the lamb... drull. I'd strangle a mountain lion to have that again. Tips: - Pile on that white sauce - it's going to seem like a lot, but keep it comin'. - The hot sauce.. is very hot. Don't be deceived by first tastes. - Do NOT cut in line. - Be prepared to wait. - The drink stand down the ways a bit more has better drinks.
I am not sure which review to place this in since I ate food served by the Famous Halal Food Guys but at the other corner at 52rd street and 6th Ave instead of 53rd but Yelp still have the name of the older vendor for that 52nd street for reviews. ?I decided to place this review in both locations. Yep. ?The cart ?just at the other corner of the same block is the same exact people. ?If the umbrella, yellow shirts, and yellows bags with the words Halal Guys on it wasn't enough proof that they were one and the same, then the fact that I saw one of the cooks walk over to the 53rd street and 6th cart to get more lamb left me with no doubt. Same food, same owner, but boy was there a difference in the length of the line. ?People in the know goes to the one which I was on at 52nd Street which was about 9 people deep. Not sure is it the Halal Guys in the daytime but definitely the same at night. ?Just look for their logo. ?Everybody else without this knowledge goes to the original location.... even though they are within visual distance from each other. ?I counted over 50 people on line and growing. ?Silly people. ?I put up pictures of the two lines for everyone's amusement and comparison. ?I apologize for not being able to fit the whole line within my picture of 53rd Street's cart. ?It was way too long ?:) I ate Halal food from various places in NYC over the years. ?Hard to avoid them since I live here. ?Some of them ok, some of them pretty good. ?I have to say this place beats them all so far... but only by a little. ?This does not mean that I am not impressed by how good they are, I did say they are the best I have tried, but it just goes to show you how much some of the competition in the city improved over the years. I think the main difference compared to some of the better ones out there is how much fresher their ingredients are because of how fast they turn over their food from the never ending lines here. ?The chicken are less dry and the lamb is still juicy which you don't get if the meat have been sitting around for hours precooked awaiting customers. ?I also liked the slight crispy, burnt edge to some parts of the meat. ?Adds a good layer of texture and flavor. ?Lamb is the better meat IMO but get the combo over rice. ?You won't regret it unless your not from NYC in which case you'll end up craving and dreaming of this type of food once you get home since it's found nowhere else yet. The white sauce and hot sauce seems very similar to what you find in a lot of Halal carts around the city but that is a very good thing since I always find them to be so delicious. ?The red sauce is indeed very hot but more then manageable if you are used to eating very spicy stuff like I am. ?For others, try it in moderation but do try it.
Yummy yummy YUMMY. I crave you, my dear 53rd. Absolutely delicious halal food. I would marry it. Chicken and rice with white sauce? Can't beat it. The pita bread too mmmmmmm. TO DIE FOR. All for 6 bucks?? In New York City?! Unbelievable/ And they give you sooo much food. I hardly ever finish mine, making it the ultimate best leftovers EVER. Beware the red hot sauce though. Sweet BBQ sauce = yum, red hot sauce = burning, dont drink soda with your meal. As much as I don't want my mouth to explode & as rare as I get it, the hot sauce makes the food still taste awesome haha. I have to be in a certain mood for it though. I don't care how long the lines are. Worth it? Hell yeah.
OMG!!!!!!!!! so good. I feel like there's cocaine in there b/c i always crave for it. Great price and great food. I want some right now with the white sauce!! Warning..you must be careful with the red sauce cuz it is SUPER spicy!!! We had the pork, chicken combination plate=) Great drunk and sober food!!we ate this at 4am, and then woke up the next day at 12pm, and ate some more..haha Seriously..i feel like i come to new york to eat..hahah
My fave is the chicken over rice. ?Lamb is good too but doesn't rock the way chicken does. ?And the white sauce is a must. ?I have no idea waht it's made of but its GOOD. ? Poor hot dog guy next to halal cart gets no lovin though...
In my opinion, along with the Statue of Liberty and Empire State Building, this specific street cart is a must-do when you're visiting NYC. Chicken and Lamb with rice - as freakin' delicious as I remember it being. ? And these guys don't fool around - they start serving right at 7:30 and not a minute earlier. Get there at least 15 minutes early like the bf and I did to avoid the potentially long lines.
So after hearing so much about this place we tried it. ?We must say we were disappointed. ?We waited in line for an hour on a Sunday evening and had the chicken and rice, but also tried the combo with lamb from a friend. ?We really dont see what the hype is about the chicken was rather dry and not flavorful, thats why you need so much white sauce on it! ?The lamb was better, if youre going to go we recommend getting the combo so you dont get sick and tired of just one flavor. ?We have been to other carts, that are much better. ?Their chicken is actually flavorful and you dont have to douse your food in additional white and hot sauce! However, one of us went to the cart late-night after a night out, and the food tasted much better, so take that as you may...
If I ever dream about a late night snack it would be the Halal Cart. ?This place is delicious and if you goto NYC it's def a top priority. ?The lamb and chicken combo with white and hot sauce is what i look foward to at the end of a night in NYC. ?Wished they opened something similar in DC.
This is almost a rite-of-passage for any visitor to NYC and I've made it a point to come here every time I'm in the City. First of all, don't let the long lines deter you. ?They've gotten it down to a science now and it moves along pretty quickly. ?Plus, the fact that you can smell the yumminess a whole block away should tell you that this is a place you NEED to dine at. I always get the lamb platter but my friends do like the mix of chicken and lamb so I think that's just personal preference. ?Love the white sauce (easy people...) and they've calmed down a little on their hot sauce. ?I used to not be able to use it at all but now it's not as bad. ?Don't get me wrong though, it'll still burn a hole in parts of your body so be gentle with it.
Combo with rice please! Indeed. ?I'm flying back to NYC just to eat this...
Nothing beats Chicken and Rice (yes, it's an official noun/name) at 4am after a night at the clubs and bars. ?Man! This stuff is amazing and totally worth standing in a line that consistently stretches down the block! ?I always get the combination -- a mix of succulent chicken and lamb over a heaping serving of rice with some salad on the side and a few pieces of pita on top. ?Add some of the orgasmic white sauce and a few little drops of the insanely hot red sauce, and you have a $6 plate of pure bliss. ?No amount of willpower will let me resist eating this if it's in my presence, and frankly, I don't really mind ;)
Oh the infamous chicken and rice. Every cab driver in the city will know what you're referring to at 2am in the morning when you stumble into the backseat and he asks, "Where you goin, buddy?" and you say "Chickeerrrrnice" in your less-than-cute sloshedness. What more can I add to the 1000+ fanatic reviews on this page? I'm only a man. Yes, a man with a hammer, ?but still only a man. Who am I kidding? This hammer? It's the shit. But never mind all that, I have an AMAZING TIP. Let's say you've been hypothetically drinking all night. Let's say that over the course of this hypothetical night, you got kicked out of the club after falling on your face in front of the bouncer. Hypothetically, you would wipe the bits of vomit off your shirt, pick yourself back up with head held high, and make your way towards chicken and rice, getting there at around 2am. Well done, hypothetical sir/madam, but you forget about one crucial detail. In this hypothetical world, you're still gonna need to pee. Bad. Like doing-the-chicken-dance bad. And it's 2am and everything's closed. And no, the chicken and rice cart, while amazing, does not have a bathroom, not even a hypothetical one. The cops are lined up along the street (also getting their own plates of chicken) and are just waiting to POUNCE on you and put your name on the national sex offenders list if you dare try to take a leak in an alleyway (isn't that what alleyways are for though??? sigh.). So in this hypothetical nightmare, what do you do? No problem. Just chicken-dance your way to the side entrance to the Sheraton up the street, located about a half block away up 6th Ave. No front desk people to ask you for your room access card. No security guards. Just head in through the sliding doors, go up the first staircase you see and you'll find a glory-be-to-God-Almighty BATHROOM down the hallway from the ballrooms. You might bump into the random maintenance person, but just give them your cutest drunk-smile and try not to breathe with your mouth open. Love them for their apathy and then take the best piss of your life. And yes, it will probably be the best chicken-and-rice you've ever hypothetically had. Again. Useful tip, no? Let me know if you agree :)
Ode to chicken and rice...I've only been introduced to this dish recently (I never ate food from carts in the city) and wow wow wee what a discovery! I've been to a few different halal carts since then and each have a slightly tweaked version of C&R but this place is pretty good. ? Everyone and their mama talks about this specific location obviously because it's the most popular. ?Having friends come into town? Gota bring them to get some C&R! Weekend in the city with the parents? Gota bring them to get some C&R! Long night of drinking and want to curb your upchuck reflexes when you wake up from passing out? Gota get some C&R! There are 2 carts right across the street from one another and if you go at night there will DEFINITELY be a line. ?After a long day/night of drinking I headed over around 11 PM on a Sunday night and I had to wait ~15-20 minutes (could be exaggerated cuz I was drunky). Some people sat on the sidewalk and started chowing down, as for me I went home to the other side of the river and ate in the comfort of my apt. ?Included in the yellow bag were 2 white sauces and 2 red sauces. ?Well well well, a lil kick to add...why not? I poured the hot sauce all over the top layer of my C&R...BIG MISTAKE. ?The hot sauce is indeed HOT. Duh. Don't do it. Other than my mouth tasting like fire for a solid 30 minutes, it was really good :) I'll be returning shortly for more deliciousness...minus the hot sauce. ?My mom's kimchi will be used as a substitute. :P
Why is there always a 25 person long line here every night rain or shine? Because this is a MUST EAT if you want the best halal food in Manhattan. ?The combo plate smothered in white sauce is the way to go. ?Its a fast moving line, have your money ready, and get ready to be satisfied for only $6!!
Lives up to the hype. ?Freakin fantastic. ?Is good.
There's a reason why this cart is so famous. I must say, I wasn't expecting much...figured it'll taste just like the rest of the bagillion halal carts out there and based on what my friends said, it wouldn't be anything special. Boy was I wrong. The line makes the food already taste bad but surprisingly, it moves extremely fast. They have a system that works perfectly and if you see the pile of chicken they have ready to be placed onto a plate, you'll see why the line moves to fast. The chicken..amazing. There is definitely a HUGE difference between this and the rest of the carts. The quality and taste definitely set them apart. They give you more than enough food and a $10 dinner for two? Can't complain at all. I could barely finish my platter but I will definitely come back and have some halal and wait on that huge line.
This is what you will find here, thanks to their fan website: Platter. .................................................. Any combination of the following items: Chicken, Gyro, Rice, Pita, Salad, Hot Sauce, White Sauce, BBQ Sauce. ?The Ultimate: "Mix w/ Rice & Pita, Lotta White Sauce, Little Hot sauce and BBQ Sauce" (It includes all of the possible items) Sandwich. .............................................. Any combination of the following items: Chicken, Gyro, Rice, Salad, Hot Sauce, White Sauce, BBQ Sauce wrapped in a full-size pita. Drinks. ..................................................?.... Water, Soda, Snapple Yes, almost everyone in NYC knows about this cart. ?But maybe not out-of-towners like me. ?On a previous visit, I had walked by and saw the long line at night and kept trying to figure out what they were selling to have a following like that. ?This time, we knew not to miss it. ?We trekked 11 blocks, in really, really cold weather to get here. ?Waited in line for about 10 minutes. ?Got our orders. ?Went to the other, unlighted cart to buy some soda. ?Then hiked back to the hotel to eat in comfort. ?It was way too cold to sit near the cart to eat, which is what other customers did. ?Anyway, my partner in crime raved about it and was already planning to go back another night. ?This cart starts in the evening and runs through 4 a.m. ?The one standing in their place during the day is operated by someone else. ?$6 bucks for a plate full of food that's just made, piping hot, AND tastes good! ?Who woulda thought that you could find it within walking distance of Times Square? ?We each had the Ultimate (The Ultimate: "Mix w/ Rice & Pita, Lotta White Sauce, Little Hot sauce and BBQ Sauce" (It includes all of the possible items)). ?The hot sauce was a bit too hot for me, so, I stuck to the white sauce. ?This is good stuff! ?Forget regular fast food, go here, for food that is fast and will keep you going back for more. Know what you want by the time you get to the front, because, despite the long line, it does move fast. ?Don't do something like ask for the sauce to be on the side and end up getting funny looks with the fear that they might boot you outta there, a la the Soup Nazi episode of Seinfeld. ?Not saying that happened to us or anything, though. ?Sauces are packed separately in plastic tubs, tossed into that bright plastic yellow bag along with your food. ?So for people without iron-lined stomachs, like me, don't worry, your food won't be slathered in the fiery hot red sauce. ?And, under no circumstances, do you ever share the white sauce with your dining companions! ?It's yours and yours alone. ?It tastes similar to Ranch Dressing, but does wonders when mixed in with the meal. Fortunately, I got to sample their food before the end of my brief stay in NYC, during which there was a massive snowstorm. ?I was seriously wondering if they would be out there with a few feet of snow. ?Wishful thinking, I guess. ?Too bad they weren't, since we ended up eating lousy food at a tourist joint and paid about 5 times the price apiece!
This is the number one halal food cart in the world. The others are just impostors. I've heard so much about this food cart and when i yelped it and saw only 1000 reviews with a 4+ star rating...WHY NOT GO!? Got confused by the 52nd and 6th Halal Cart but went down the block and found the yellow shirts. Ordered my combo plate and was off to times square to find a table. that hot sauce is seriously effing hot. I would eat this all the time if we had it in Boston.
The name of the Facebook group is called, "chicken and rice rules my life - the Polytechnic Chapter". I am a proud member. I am your combo chicken and lamb kind of girl. I will offer to split with you my $8 platter only ONCE - after that, you're totally fcuked. I will ask for the hot sauce white sauce mix and ask for more hot sauce even well after being lectured by the vendor how I'm gonna die from the heat. All I gotta say is hit me baby! ?I will stand on this line as long as it takes! ? Often imitated and never replicated.
If you get to 53rd and get confused on which cart it is since they all look identical (down to the uniform) - it's the one with the monster line! Don't worry about the line it moves really fast, they know people want there food and they move like clockwork and don't short change you on the portions. Now the food - amazing!! I have been to over 30+ carts around the city and very few can compete on size and NO ONE can compare on taste. Simple menu. I usually go with the Lamb over rice - you can easily share it but I am greedy and want one all to myself. The give you a cup of white sauce but there is more on the side. ?If your thirsty there is a Guy who sells bottled water or cans of pop for a $1. Really hits the spot late night.
I love cheap street meat, especially when it tastes like this. been there twice so far and have not been let down.
great halal
Best gyros in the city! I used to come to this gyro stand in the middle of the night in high school and there'd be a line at 3am...which isn't nearly as bad as the line that accumulates earlier in the evening. A lot of people use the phrase "the line was down the block" loosely but the line can be LITERALLY down the block for this Halal Cart. But it moves very quickly and it's so, so worth waiting for. You'll never look at gyros the same way again.
good stufff. i can go there many times over, if only it wasn't out of the way. and there's one right in front of my school which is good too anyway so i don't have a strong reason to hike over there and stand in the longgg lines. same addicting white sauce, same spicy ass hot sauce. but u know all the halal carts are all owned by the same company. i guess this place is just got lucky. ? well, im a fan anyway. i do prefer the meat here tho cuz it's more chopped up. the one by my school is in cube chunks.
I was in New York a little under two months ago, and I still think about this place every once in a while. I was told by a friend that this was a great place to have drunk food. You'll know that this is THE place that people are referring to because of the long lines, workers in yellow shirts, and the yellow plastic bags they provide for you. The line can be a bit long at times (that's what she said), but when you're drunk, you don't care. Besides, the wait is definitely worth it. Even while waiting in line, the staff is very efficient, and you eventually get served pretty quickly. The combo plate contains rice, veggies, lamb, and chicken in an aluminum plate-like apparatus. Whatever is in the white sauce is almost as good as sex, and the hot sauce is spicy as hell. During my 4-5 days in New York, I ate at this place at least three times; each time as good as the last. ? p.s.: yes, I did come here when I was sober and it was just as good!!! Oh yeah, it's also cash only.
Like the Danger Dogs before it, the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart and it's street food punched my misgivings about the quality of food from a street vendor right in the face with a roundhouse of flavor. This was possibly the most hyped destination on our NY to-do list with friends raving like lunatics about how this is the greatest thing ever and telling us stories of how they waited in blizzards for hours just to get some. Of course I was a skeptic and thought there was no way such a simple concept (a meat cart no less) could be that good. That was until we bought one of these bad boys and went to town. The marriage of lamb and chicken, joined together in holy sanctimony with the much ballyhooed white sauce, made for a three-way of deliciousness that caused a taste explosion in my mouth and overwhelmed my taste buds. I still wouldn't brave blizzards to get some of this but it's good, real good. The smart thing to do is see that the line is short and hop in (this happened to be around noon for us, when we had just finished breakfast). Then ask for extra white sauce and scurry on over to the Starbucks (shout out to Kim C. for the tip) down the street and hog a table so you can savor it. The whole shabang is enough to feed two people...actually it was more than enough. Plus, it's only $7. When ours was ready, I flashed a ten spot and Camellia C. asked if I knew how much it actually was. I didn't, but in retrospect I would have paid 10 for it anyway. Well done 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. Well done.
It was the end of the night, and this was one of the last places on our list to try on our 12 hour excursion. The temperature dropped to about 30 degrees and we were waiting in a long line for chicken or lamb over rice. This was our finish line. The whole day was a marathon where we had to conserve our energy and pace ourselves when eating. But in the end, you make a sprint. I got the chicken first. Despite some claims that it was a bit dry, mine was pretty moist and tasted wonderful with the rice. I used plenty of white and red sauce, which made the plate taste even better. It warmed my body and we quickly polished it off. I was warned beforehand about the hot hot sauce. Unfortunately, in our rush to use the bathroom, Mu-Hua C. inadvertently grabbed the hot sauce rather than the red sauce and squirted it all over his dish. When we returned from our bathroom search, his mouth was writhing in pain. I've never seen a man so tortured. Hilarity ensued as we laughed for a good ten minutes. Then I took a taste for myself and realized this was no ordinary hot sauce. I felt pretty bad he had to go through that, but that was after I got in a few more good laughs. The first tasting was so good, Kevin T. and I decided to return for a second helping, but this time lamb. We waited another half hour in the freezing cold to get our pipping hot plate. We ended up tiring so we didn't get to finish, but brought it back. It was just as good the next morning. I guess I would consider this hole-in-the-wall type food. Except, it's from a cart located on the corner of a street. Still, it has all the qualities that I look for in a late night eatery: good food, lots of it, and it's cheap. But, beware of the hot hot sauce!
1:30am on a Sunday night... Would've walked to the next "happenin'" venue ?on 52nd ave but halted by the almighty rain (& supposed thunder storm)... Had a craving for a gyro but stopped in the tracks by a sausage vendor! I asked the gentleman if there was a gyro vendor nearby but he directed me towards the opposite direction that I wanted to travel so I put my gears in reverse & stopped by the halal cart on 53rd & 6th and boy o boy was it the right choice! Ambiance? What ambiance!? Well seasoned shredded chicken, fresh lettuce and the rice were to die for however since they were so busy they forgot our white/spicy sauce so I had to dock points for that... Food was wonderful but slightly dry! Will rereview when justice is served!
I was introduced to this miracle on wheels over 5 years ago when I was a young freshman, and it has kept me coming back more times than I can even imagine. While it is known by many names, 53rd and 6th, Chicken and Rice, Lamb and Rice, or Platters, there is only one experience that is second to none. A few weeks into my freshman year, my new friend, but now long time roommate, told me about a place in NYC that he has been going to for years. While at first I had thought we were going to a brick and mortar restaurant, I was surprised to find that our destination was a once random street corner. Marked by the iconic yellow plastic bags and yellow sweatshirts, the line said it all. Never have I stood in line for an hour for street meat, but I was assured it was worth the wait. Platters can be enjoyed in all physical conditions; however, when you are at the brink of starvation, this meal can take you to nirvana. That night I felt like my insides were cannibalizing itself, which made for the perfect conditions to enjoy that meal. With my first bite, I saw heaven and the angels were eating platters. Since then I have gone in sweltering hot evenings, monsoon like rain, and blizzard level snow, but like the postal service, no matter of elements have kept them from being open. Being a self proclaimed platters veteran, here are some common misconceptions and rules to follow if you're going for the first time. 6 Commandments of ?Platters: 1. You can only get true authentic platters between the hours of 7:30pm and 4am. Don't let the similar yellow sweatshirts fool you, the daytime vendors are officially unaffiliated with the true Chicken Guy. True chicken and rice come in a round aluminum tin and placed in the iconic yellow bags. No exceptions. 2. The carts across the street serve the same food. If it is your first time, then you definitely have to experience the line wait which always leaves a story. However, if you are a no nonsense gyro guzzler, the shorter line on the east side of 6th street is the spot for you. 3. There isn't really a menu at the carts. You can choose from chicken, lamb, or both and between gyro or platter. You also better have your order ready when you're on deck because any delay will invariably cause aggression from hungry diners behind you. If you are unsure of how to get it done, I fully advocate going with a veteran and letting them handle the order. 4. Always be friendly to inquisitive tourists. We have all been platter virgins at one point in another. While you can feel bad that they have never experienced euphoria, that does not excuse a grumpy or sarcastic attitude towards the ignorant. 5. Apply white sauce liberally and hot sauce cautiously. There are times when I like my white sauce with a little bit of platters, so there should be no worry about over applying the mysterious white sauce; however, the hot sauce is not your grandma's spice. Many hot heads think they can handle the Chicken and Rice red stuff, but time and time again they are reminded that "Pride comes before the fall." Everyone's white and red sauce balance is different, so if you are getting a platter for a friend, it's better to get the individual packets instead of guessing. ?P.S. Don't bother asking what is in the white sauce, no one knows and no one cares. 6. Finally, and most importantly, there is no cutting. It does not matter whether your parents, siblings, or lovers are waiting, if you cut the line, the line can, and probably will, cut back. Literally. There have been documented cases of line cutters that have been stabbed, so consider yourselves warned. ? I have introduced countless friends and family to platters, and it has never disappointed once in the past 5 years. The only thing as good as the meals themselves have been the memories I've made at that street corner. I've seen it all from Snookis getting decked to Power Rangers riding motor cycles in my trips to the cart. Just like it says on their website "All the people of the world can be put into two categories: those who have had the platter, and those who have not." Therefore there should be no question as to if you are going. You will go. The only question that is left is chicken or lamb? Bottom Line: I pity the fool that hasn't tried platters.
Completely shocked at how good this food is!!! ?I spent a few days exploring diferent foods in NYC this weekend. ?I tried everything from street vendor hot dogs to expensive Italian food. ?How is it that this was my best experience?! ?You can't beat it for the price, and its hard to miss. ?These carts make Manhattan smell fantastic!!!!!
Why (I ate here): ?Browsing "What's Hot on Yelp Nearby" and this was the first hit. ?The popularity (and number of reviews) of a mere food cart intrigued me. What (I ordered): ?Lamb and Chicken Combo Plate, with sides of white house and small side of red sauce. I came here for: ?Late Night Snack The verdict: ?It's good. You have to try it at least once. I'll definitely come back again. Highlights: I liked the lamb better than the chicken. ?White sauce is really creamy; red sauce is as spicy as everyone on here claims (so test it out before pouring it on your food). ?I had already eaten dinner before I ate here (waited a few hours, of course) so I was still semi-full. ?Because the cart isn't here until after 7pm, and because all dinners for the trip had already been planned, this was the only time I can squeeze it in.
Had it TWICE during my week long visit to Manhattan over Spring Break. As I was exhausted and starving after walking for about 80 blocks that day (mind y'all, I'm from SoCal, so the longest distance I've walked was probably a shopping trip at the mall), I felt like I was being rescued when I smelled the aroma from this place 3 blocks away. I didn't know if it's any good, but seeing that it had a long line, I decided to wait in line and order whatever the person in front of me does. I wasn't especially impressed with the food when I had it (I was probably way too tried from the day) but it was surely satisfying. ?Little did I know that I was already being cast under their spell as I could not get my mind off that plate of rice and lamb afterwards. I was staying at the Hilton which was right across the street so every time I walked by the cart, my foot just drove my body to the end of the line and waited there for another plate of goodness. I miss you, and I can't wait to go back and have it again.
this place simply rules. there is only 1 vegetarian option - salad, pita, and rice. But its damn good. The white sauce is heavenly!! - if anyone knows how to make the rice and/or white please note me asap. its addictive.
having been a huge fan of this amazing food for almost 12 years, i thought it was time for me to put my two cents in as well... ?the food is truly top notch and their hot sauce is to die for.... i would pick this over almost any 5 star restaurant any day..... definitely worth a try for everyone at least once...
Grease Truck Genius!! It's not been 2 months since I've moved away from NYC, and I still have dreams about Chicken Over Freaking Rice. I stood in line multiple nights during one of New York's worst winters...and was it worth it?! ?You BET your BOOTY it is! It's almost 1am pacific time while I write this review and dream, and my 4am eastern body clock craving (when last call's SUPPOSED to be) ...is telling me it's time for some chicken over rice. That and a Mister Softee.. **drool.. Miss you NY..
I went to the halal cart based on a friend's suggestions that it was a "must try" during my visit to NY. ?He also told me that there are many imposter carts and not to be tricked. ?So during my NY trip, a visit to "the cart" was on my list of things to do. ?I was expecting to wait a long time but it wasn't too bad. ?Probably waited about 1/2 hr? ?Well, it was sure worth it! ?The chicken and rice was so amazing. ?It tastes better than it looks. ?Based on appearance, the chicken looked like it was going to be super dry. ?I was totally wrong! ?Everything was perfectly cooked and super flavorful. ?I often dream about halal's chicken and rice. ?Wish we had this in LA!
The most reviewed Halal Cart in New York and you know why it is. They are open late and the line is always there. This place should be shown on food network if it already hasn't been. I wish I was just more hungrier to eat it all. I ordered the combination which came with rice, chicken, gyro and pita. I added the white sauce and spicy sauce. The spicy sauce is spicy. You have to make sure you watch how much you put. I'm not much for too spicy but this will give you some punishment if you don't watch it. The white sauce was great. I wish I added more. I should have saved my leftovers to have for breakfast but I didn't. I wanted more in the end.
fast. cheap. and really good. what more can you ask for? definitely better than the halal cart on 50th and 6th. :)
Good food at a good price. Not sure it's worth the wait, but I didn't try any other Halal Carts while I was in NYC, so I can't say! You won't be disappointed with this though. My "extra spicy" order did not disappoint on hotness, that's for sure!
it was about 30 degrees outside. I couldn't feel my hands, but I had to take off my gloves so that I could get a better grip on my fork to shovel this deliciousness into my mouth. It was about 11:45PM and the line kept getting longer. It was worth the wait. I don't like lamb, but it was better than the chicken. Not at all gamey and definitely worth it to get the lamb/chicken combo. SO DELICIOUS and CHEAP.
Delicious...a really fun way to experience the streets of NYC...and better food you will never eat! Other Halal carts are often empty...this place ALWAYS has a long line...if you don't see a line...you are at the wrong cart!
Every-time im in NY, I gotta have it. Get the combo plate here. Sometimes I go back multiple times during my stay. ? Im a fine dining kind of person but this is my guilty pleasure. ?I started with chicken and rice and Graduated to the combo and rice. Its fantastic.
Best halal food I've had in the city. 800+ people can't be wrong, can they? Anyways, I'll stop repeating what everyone else has already said about the food and discuss a well known topic of debate: The contention has been with the authenticity of the street cart across 6th avenue with the same yellow umbrella and the same yellow shirts. Are they the same? Are they impostors? Should I give up my place in line and dare try it? (but I've already waited 15min)... I'm here to say: Go right ahead. Save yourself the 30min wait and walk across the Avenue of Americas. The chicken, the lamb, the rice, the white sauce and the hot sauce are all the same. I am 100% sure. I've tried both at least 5x and there is no difference in taste. The chicken and lamb meats are still diced down to small bits ensuring even cooking. The rice is it's standard orange-ish/yellow color and prepacked into the tin with a pitiful salad. You still get small pieces of pita placed on top of your meat of choice. Douse with your choice of white and hot sauce, and enjoy while staring at everyone else across the way. I also went early one day and saw one of the original workers (with the large beard who is always there) helping setup across the street. He helped them open up the cart and sat around and chatted for at least 10min. Add in the fact that they wear the same clothes, have the same signs/plastic bags, and serve the same food, I'd be stupid to not think they're the same. Or you can continue to wait in 30min lines at 3am.
This place alone is reason why I drool when I think of NY. Chicken n Rice combo platter for $6. BEST MEAL on EARTH! Yes, the wait can be annoying but just think about what's at the end of that rainbow..better than a pot of gold. Plus the line moves pretty fast. Best way to spend $6 and the perfect late night snack! I'm drooling now as I write this review. I wish I lived in NY :(
Some of the best street meat that I have had in a long time. And for $5 a plate, how can you go wrong? I disagree with those who complain that the rice and chicken are both dry and bland. Perhaps these people went on an off day? The rice was nice and fluffed, yellow in color, with a bit of oil through it and a faint taste of cloves. Shockingly gourmet for a food truck. And the meat was surprisingly good. Chicken marinated in a tumeric based marinade, and cooked fresh right in front of you. Soft and juicy (almost too soft), with a nice mix of white meat and dark meat chunks. White sauce is seriously crack in liquid form. Don't even want to know the ratio of mayo to yogurt -- nor do I really care. Hot sauce is also good, although a bit too thick. As far as halal meat trucks in Manhattan go, this place is worth the hype. However, the carts in Jackson Heights, Queens, are way better. For street meat connoisseur , you're better off taking your business there.
Dear Yelpers and New Yorkers, Thank you for introducing me to this random yet outrageously popular chicken and rice food cart. ?This food cart is amazing, and considering the price and how much you get, this is a great deal to boot. ?My bf and I waited the line with other hungry chicken and rice mongers and now I understand why there are over 800 reviews of this cart! Thanks again, Tracy
LOVE it! Cheap, fast, and tasty. You can't get better than this :D Recommendation *I actually prefer the chicken and rice as opposed to the chicken/lamb combo (both $6), but the white sauce actually takes over the flavor so it really doesn't matter. *Ask for TWO sides of white sauce! It's just awesome, you will thank me later :) *The red spicy sauce is SUPER HOT! so, be EXTRA cautious when you pour it over your plate, because it is HOT HOT HOT! ?I had a friend make that mistake (and he LOVES spicy food), but alas he fell victim to it. ?So use it responsibly!
the best street meat in NYC. i know midtownlunch.com ranked others above them (midtownlunch.com/2009/07?), but i personally have these guys at #1. i always get the combo over rice with white sauce and red sauce on the side. the red sauce is pretty spicy so beware...
Best $6 I ever spent. ?Lamb on rice with red and white sauce.
So when I first got to NYC, I lost a bet to Iffat about the exact location of this cart... I will never forget it again. And no Gutkin, they don't have halal pork. This place is the bomb. $6 will get you stuffed. Just make sure you put a shit load of white sauce or it won't taste as good. Of course, use caution when adding hot sauce as it is like battery acid. I love spicy food. I threw caution to the wind when Tandon warned me not to put a lot. Well, I should have listened. My mouth was numb and I was practically drooling after forcing myself to finish my circular tin of halal food.. Sometimes I'm not hungry but since I'm nearby, it would be a waste not to get some halal food... The only thing I didn't like was that they charge you a dollar for an extra tin (ie. for sharing). DON'T FALL FOR THE FAKE CART!!! When you are walking on 6th Ave from 50th St. you will see a Hilton sign on the LEFT side of the street. I will use this for reference. Before 7PM, the cart is diagonal from the Hilton sign. There is a second ''real' cart is a block away on 52nd. After 7PM, the one cart diagonal from the Hilton remains there, and the other 'real' cart moves right in front of the Hilton sign (where the FAKE cart was).
So this is it: the one EVERYONE sings their praises to. And rightfully so. Having experienced the standard Halal a couple blocks away, I needed to hit up the cart that is proclaimed the best. Even after having eaten dinner and had a drunken snack in the same night, I still went to the 53rd/6th Halal Cart to sample its offerings. And what luck I was in. Only 3 people ahead of me in line and like every tourist who steps up to bat, pulled the iPhone out to snap photos at every turn, with the workers taking no shame in posing for their glorious honors. My coworker graciously bought me my own serving and here, they don't put any kind of sauce on for you. They're located at the end of the cart and it's up to you to decide your fate. Everyone cowered at the spicy sauce; I poured it on like there was no tomorrow. I then realized just how right my friend was... My mouth was on fucking fire. But holy shit, I couldn't stop eating it. It was self-inflicted torture of the best kind. I turned down water; I sweated profusely. I ate more. I finally ate about half before I realized I was just too damn full and would probably explode right there if I didn't stop. My mouth burned the entire walk back home. It was glorious. The next morning was even worse than the previous night's experience with Halal food. I licked my lips and immediately tasted the spice. My stomach was not happy and reminded me on the 5 hour flight back to LA. It's been roughly 30-some odd hours since I've eaten this Halal plate and I'm still not back to normal. And yet, I really want to eat some again. I'll be back, but I must find a way to tame that sauce.
These guys have opened two DAYTIME carts BUT THEY ARE NOT ON THEIR USUAL CORNER. ?They can be found on the SE corner of 53rd and 6th and the NW corner of 52nd & 6th during the day. ?They are STILL at their normal spot at night. During the day, don't be fooled by the knockoff cart on the normal ?(SW) corner at 53rd & 6th .. They have a line down the block and yellow hoodies on for unsuspecting patrons. ?Not until you notice the chicken looks funny and the sign has changed slightly, and the bags aren't yellow, do you feel like a silly person for being duped.
I was introduced to this place by a friend of mine that used to live in Brooklyn, probably back in 2003? When I make my yearly homage back to the city, I always make it a point to get this at least once! Hands down the best cart food I've ever had in my life (be weary though, there are imitators in the city, not all of which are bad - but this is the best). I crave the mix plate of rice, chicken and lamb, with white sauce and red sauce too (don't go overboard on the red if you don't like spice, it's got some kick!). Be prepared for a long line, although it moves pretty fast. For $6, this is the best food you can get in the city and totally worth it every time. My mouth is watering just writing this review! There's a soda cart right next to it so you have something to wash it down with too. Uuuggghhh I can't wait until I'll be back in a month to indulge in the goodness!
I've eaten from trucks, I've eaten from carts and I've eaten from windows at places that looked like they'd leave you feeling queezy after. All have great food, just like this cart! After a long Friday afternoon, following my cousin on a shopping rampage and walking more than I wanted to we stopped for some dinner. It was early, but the line was already long, don't let this discourage you. These guys are super efficient. You tell one guy what you want, the other makes the food and the third takes your money. In, out and eat! Watch out for the hot sauce, it does not play!!! I couldn't even touch my fork to it. I mixed up a tiny bit with the white sauce and it was a great dressing. Can we talk about the bread they serve with this? I just want a plate full of chicken and bread, delish! Whether you're a local or stopping into Manhattan for the weekend, put this cart on your list of places to eat at!!
I just came back from NYC and I think I would sell my soul to the devil to eat this meal tonight for dinner! ?I already miss it. ?I got the combo plate with white sauce and red sauce. ?Simply amazing! ?I would say top 5 of the best thing I ever eaten in my life. I can understand now why people wait for hour or more for this food on some days. ?Lucky for me I only waited like 10 minutes. ?It was worth it. ?There are imitators all around but they had no line. ?No line means no good! ? I have no idea what the white sauce and the red sauce is but it's amazing. ?The red sauce is super spicy. ?Seriously, I don't think most spicy foods are hot but this thing is like fire... I love it. The combo plate is gyro and chicken meat over rice, lettuce, tomatoes and few slices of pita. Even if you never had gyro(lamb) before, just get it because it's got amazing flavor. ?Better then chicken for sure. It's only like $6. ?Wow, my mouth is salivating from just writing this review... I can't wait to go back. If you are in NYC, this is a must "to do"!!! Pro - Flavor, hot sauce, white sauce, gyro Cons - they could give you more pita to make it perfect. long lines
i have no words to say how amazing this cart is. the wait is well worth it, and they are doing it pretty fast already. the food is so fresh and healthy (depending on how much white sauce you put on .. obviously). these guys got the flow down for the constructing of each chicken and rice bowls. we ordered our food, then walked over to rockerfeller center to dine at 8pm at night, the best experience with food ever.
I have been here countless amount of times. If you have never been to it, you must experience it. You can't leave manhattan without experiencing the famous 53rd and 6th cart. I have had a few bad experiences (onboxious service, food not so fresh) but the majority of them have been good, so I still give it 5 stars. I always get the mixed platter (chicken,lamb,rice,pita,lettuce) with alot of white sauce, little hot, little bbq. Amazing. Be forewarned though, the sauces is what makes the meal taste good. Don't expect the platter to taste any good without them. You MUST get sauce! Of the 10+ times I have had the plater, i have only completely finished it twice. Contrary to many beliefs, there is a stand that is THE SAME EXACT OWNER that runs right next to it at night AND during the day. As long as the cart has the yellow bags and employees wearing those shirts in the pics, you've got the right spot! Lines are long at night (not if you go to the one right next to it), and expect to have something "special" to drop in the toilet the next morning. Still worth it though! Sometimes there is an obnoxious guy that works..when its the next persons turn in line he starts yellling NEXT..NEXT...WHOSE NEXT!!! (funny though) You must experience it. I drive 60 miles roundtrip just to do it.
$6 combo (lamb chicken rice salad pita) + white sauce + hot sauce = all kinds of awesome. ?you'd pay twice as much at a restaurant for half the goodness. I gave the HILTON a good rating because they were next to this cart. ?Only night time, only the statue corner. ?All the others cannot be trusted! ?Not hard to find, just look for a line of people salivating as they smell and see the happy people sitting at the statue stuffing their faces - they couldn't wait to take it home because they had to wait in line and watch those before them do the same.
Today I saw a man lock his children in his car with the windows rolled up and wait 30 mins to get food from this halal cart. But having tried it myself I can't honestly say that I wouldn't have done the same thing.
This review is long overdue but deserving. ?Until I came to NY I didn't even know what the heck Halal food was. ?But I was down to try because one thing I learned from camping is that the dirtier the food the better it tastes and what can be dirtier than street meat. The best thing about NY is that everything is open at all hours. ?And at 4AM after a night of drinking it definitely hit the spot. ?I got the chicken and rice. ?The yogurt sauce is pretty delicious. Word of warning though. ?My chinese friend who is the local who brought us here said the red sauce was hella spicy. ?Well my thought is what the hell does a Chinese person know about spicy, I'm friggin' Korean!!! ?So I just slathered it on like Barefoot Contessa's host Ina Garten's fat a$$ bathes in butter. ?Yeah..... I was running for the drink cart 30 seconds after my first bite. ?Use sparingly. I want to drunkenly eat here again. ?It shall happen. ?It will happen. ?*drool*
Best halal street cart in the city. The lines are long, but I'm glad that they're expanding. During the daytime, you can find them on 53rd and 6 (SE corner), 53rd and 7th (SW corner) and from what i heard they opened up a 3rd location (around 52nd at 6th)? I forget. It took over another cart. Anyway, their chicken is moist and chopped up well. The lamb is moist and flavored and chopped up well too. The rice is cooked well. It's not the best rice out there (that goes to XPL carts), and the lamb isn't the best (goes to Kwik carts), but the total package is the best. The lamb and chicken complement each other with the salad, rice, and pita. The white sauce is great, and the hot sauce is insanely hot. I really want to know what kind of peppers they use. I wouldn't be surprised if its made with habanero peppers. The hot sauce is intense so use with caution. My little secret ?is mixing in the white sauce with the hot sauce to soften the heat of the intense hot sauce. $5 for lunch and $6 for dinner & weekends. A great deal, although it was better when it was $5 for dinner/weekends too.
I too am in love with the halal cart and I am extremely bummed there is nothing even close to it in LA! I am under it's spell of it's awesome, mouth watering combination of chicken, rice & white sauce. I haven't stopped thinking about it since I got back from NYC two weeks ago. I wasn't even close to going because my I was so tired from the BEST bachelorette weekend my girlfriends had for me. But I heart them for making me try new things and get out of the cab to try the Halal cart. And it's so true - you don't need to go to the super long line carts, the one right next to them is exactly the same.
Okay, the white sauce is good, it's worth the wait. I get it. But there are two other carts owned by the same people serving the SAME food with NO LINE within easy walking distance. Just look for the signature 53rd and 6th Yellow t-shirts on the other street corners if you're skeptical, but the stuff is trucked in from the same place to all three locations. But hey, if waiting in line is half the fun for you, or you're so drunk the words on the Yellow t-shirts are swimming before your eyes, then don't let me stand in your way. In fact, please stay in line and sober up while I go get me a plate of delicious food from around the corner. ;)
Holy street food. Thank you!! So nice.. Called me sweetie-- i think he knew It was my first time. Amazing. Lived up plus!
I can't believe I haven't written a review on this yet!!!! This halal cart is the BIZNESS!! I wish they had this in San Francisco, cuz I crave for it so much! My fiance and I went to NYC in May, and we kept hearing about this place....while there are halal carts on every corner in NYC, everyone told us we HAD to go to THIS ONE ONLY!! The line is pretty long, but it is definitely worth the wait! We ordered the chicken over rice with white sauce and hot sauce..it also comes with salad and pita bread....the first bite was so effin good!! My fiance and I shared a plate, but I wish i had my own! Every bite was delicious and we wish we took some home with us on the plane! The white sauce makes it sooooo good!! We even told our friends that recently visited NYC to check out this place, and they LOVED it just as much as we did! There are some expensive places to eat in NYC, so if you want something that's CHEAP and GOOD, stop by the corner of 6th and 53rd, and you will not be sorry!!
It just can't get better than this. People say it taste better when your drunk, but it taste just as good when you're sober. I got the mix Plate with no salad. It come with a mix of beef,lamb, chicken. Heap amount of saffron rice and pita bread. The best part about it was the sauces you put on top. It just brings everything together. I can't wait to come back. Please prepare to wait in line. But you wont regret it.
stop #11 on our FOODSTRAVAGANZA since the last time i was in NY, i could not get the chicken and lamb combo out of my head. there is nothing like it in SF that i can find so far. and although NYC is chock full of halal carts, none are better than 53rd and 6th. seriously, i pretty much planned our NYC foodstravaganza solely so that i might taste the grubtastic rice dish once more! someone in SF needs to create an cart equi-delicious hala cart! please!! i beg!!
Oh wow. Words do not even explain! I'm not sure how there can be other halal carts in the city, how does this one not put the rest out of business? It's so much food! So much food for so cheap! The food is flavorful, meaty, and LOTS! Wow. I will miss you.
Damn you for preying on my drunk ass last night. ?I don't know what's in that white sauce (crack, possibly?), but the combination of everything on my plate was a party in my mouth. Unfortunately, the party turned into an all-out brawl in my stomach, but still TOTALLY WORTH IT.
All I've been hearing about is this specific Halah cart and finally decided to take my friends here to try it on one cold and windy night. ?Even with the horrible weather, the wait was about 45 minutes. ?To wait that long and suffering through New York's horrible wind ?I was expecting greatness. ?All in all, I personally thought the chicken and rice here was just ok. ?I discovered another place by Columbus Circle that I found tastier with a better white sauce. ?I give it to them though that their portions are fairly larger than other Halah carts. ?Know that it opens at 7:30 PM to 4:00 AM. ?There's usually a fake there earlier that taste very plain.
I'll add my voice to the chorus, this place is great. ?I was looking for lunch and saw this place with a long line of local New Yorkers and figured they must know something. ?Now every time I go to NYC I make a point of eating here. ?Worth the effort!
Bombies... The line is kinda long late at night but worth it.. PS the white sauce is Ranch dressing..!
I used to live in NYC and when i'd have visitors, I would always take them here. when they return to CA, they are always craving it, and when i'd make my visit back to the Bay, i'd bring some back just to fulfill their cravings! There is a street vendor that tries to pretend they are the original 53rd and 6th cart, but please dont be fooled. Look for the logo!! now that i'm back in CA, i miss the lamb and rice so much!
I'm not a big fan of this type of food normally. ?I came here the first time with some family and fell in love with it. ?I've since made it out here another two times while on business and will continue to keep coming out here as long as they keep making good food. ?The Lamb and Chicken over rice as everyone states is the way to go. ?Expect long lines no matter what time you show up but the lines go very quickly.
It's THAT good--that every time I go to NYC, I have to go here...a random halal cart--yes, it's worth it I get the white sauce AND hot sauce and mix it together with the lamb, lettuce and rice. YUM Can't wait to go back in May. I'm dragging my friends here!
Am I taking crazy pills? ?This place is a joke. ?Just because you wait in a 20 minute line for swilly food doesn't mean you're required to say this its good. ?Its not that its bad, it just isn't any different than any other cart. ?The only positive that I can say about this street meat is that it didn't get me sick..which is definitely a plus. ? Please...don't be fooled just because there are 50 other lemmings waiting in line for this crap. ?There are thousands of great places to eat in NYC and I highly suggest finding them instead of wasting $6 and 20 minutes.
Let me just sum up the food from here in one word AMAZING!
This place is now an institution in New York. While some people would like to say they are better than this place, or are afraid of eating street cart food, the constant turnover and fresh produce that is dropped off makes this food as fresh and tasty as anywhere else in the city. The entrepreneurs at this cart started with one cart at the south west corner of 53rd and 6th and now have both the southern corners of 6th ave covered and another corner on the north western corner of 52nd and 6th. However, most people dont know that they are all the same location. As for the food, I always recommend the lamb and rice . . . I know people call this place chicken and rice, but the lamb is really where it is at. Add as much white sauce as you want. But be very careful with the hot sauce, its super spicy.
53rd & 6th Chicken & Rice... What more can I say that hasn't been said? ?Probably not much. ?This establishment has almost 1,000 reviews. I like the mixed Chicken & Lamb over Rice deal. ?It's great late night food (not great for your body, but at 3am who cares?), but it's lost its appeal after having gone over ten times. Worldly accepted truths: - It's all about their white sauce. - The red sauce is lethal, a few drops of it can kill you or force you on the toilet the next day, all day. ?Keep it far away from your eyes. Controversial belief: - The other Halal Cart across the street on the SE corner is the same thing. ?People will argue with my about it, but seriously, it's the same owner / same food, but with half the wait. ?Don't be a lemming, just buy your chicken & rice here.
This place is so absurdly ridiculous! ? A few friends and I have a theory that they put crack in the white sauce since it is so magically good! ?I have gone to this truck and have literally ordered 5-6 platters per time that I visit. ?I would recommend this place to anyone with taste buds. ? Try your best to steal the white sauce, it goes well with almost everything!
There's something about their food that makes you want to keep going back. We were in NY for 4 days and had this for dinner 2 nights in a row. It was way convenient being just a block from where we were staying. Don't be afraid of the long line. It moves quickly and if you look at the other corners around, there are two more of the same brand and the same taste! ?For $6 you get a pie plate full of rice, chicken or mixed beef and lamb, or a mixed plate with chicken and the beef/lamb mix and chopped lettuce. This plate is good to share! Sodas $1. You can't go wrong! Warning: Hot sauce is H O T! White sauce is creamy! O
This is the best halal I've ever had. ?I worked across the street for couple years, and man did I gain a few pounds. ?I have no idea how bad it is for you, but I honestly don't care. ?Its steaming heaps of deliciously seasoned rice, lamb, and chicken topped with a creamy white mayo sauce and a deadly hot sauce. ?On the hot sauce, I am from the deep south and love hot and spicy food, for the flavor, and for the challenge, but this stuff will melt through glass. ?The guys know what they're doing when applying it, so don't think they're stiffing you. ?Unless you look like you grew up subsisting on nuclear curries, they're going to go easy on you, but they'll reluctantly pile it on if you ask. ?Occasionally they sell kofta kebabs, which are good, but the spit roasted lamb is better. ?I love this place, and miss it dearly.
Dear Halal white sauce, How I dream of you already. I thought you were ranch-y mayo but boy was I wrong. You paired so well with the red spicy sauce and made my half chicken half lamb plate taste divine. The whole thing was devoured in a matter of minutes and left my mouth burning with delight. Bless those vendors who slave and sweat away over the grill in 90+ degree weather to bring such a tasty treat to the masses. I've seen several other Halal Chicken carts, but I don't want to chance it, even if I have to pay $6 instead of $5. You'll always be my favorite white sauce on top of my favorite street food plate in NYC. Until we meet again, Patty
Holy-Freakin' Crap, this was good! ?Good enough for me to endure an 18 degree night (not including wind chills), sitting on the sidewalk like a hobo and even trying my damnest to use my ATM card so I can eat this in the little ATM stalls out there, just to eat this. ?It was worth it! ?I wasn't even all that hungry since we'd been eating our way through NYC but I finished. ?Oh yeah I did. ?I was 5 lbs of meat heavier but I didn't even care. ? The lines are always long, even in the dead of night. ?On a cold day there is no refuge from the elements. ?The portions are large. ?But the meat is just divine (moist, tender and full of flavor) and the smell is intoxicating. ?I will stop because there is no way I can take a 5 hour flight to eat it again...or can I? This is what a food cart should be.
THE PRICE IS RIGHT! 53rd Street and 6th Avenue at night is the perfect place to be for halal chicken or lamb meat! ?I am usually not a huge fan of lamb meat because I can taste a certain after taste that I really can't stand. However, when my friend got a plate of half chicken and half lamb on a bed of safferon rice, with a side of greek yogurt and hot sauce, it was to die for! ?I highly recommend this hang out spot with plenty of seating on the steps to the side, beautiful night life, plenty of people watching and GREAT food. ?I love New York and good eats like this make me want to come back. ?My friends and I got lucky because supposedly the line can get pretty long at night and apparently this cart only comes out after 6pm, therefore don't be fooled by other carts that might occupy the same spot at early hours! ?There were plenty other Halal carts too but you should definitely try the one at this corner. ?A plate of food and drink for only 8 dollars. I left very happy!
The BEST meal I had in New York hands down. You know that feeling you get when you see and smell food that other people have and you have that little moment where your heart pitter-patters in anticipation because you know your turn is next? This was one of those places... I guess don't fool yourself with the other Halal trucks. This place is sheer genius and not only my favorite meal, but the cheapest with the most bang for your buck. Went there twice and took a plate to-go on my carry on. And it's still good reheated. And the sauces - good lord it's crack. The first night, I was too drunk and dousled the plate with too much hot sauce. My mouth was burning (in a good, borderline bad way - the bf was pissed at me)... but the second night I got it right... 25% hot sauce, 100% WHITE. Can't wait to return and eat here again.
Very good Halal cart that serves chicken and rice. The sauces are good and the hot sauce was spicy, but not too bad. To be honest, the only reason I didn't rate this place higher was because I think I was expecting more. I didn't think it was so significantly superior to some of the other good halal places I've eaten at. Good food, but long line for something I've feel I've eaten the equivilent of before.
I could give it 1000 stars. It's the best, hands down. I'm so glad Halal cart exists in New York City to (almost) replace my cravings for El Taurino in LA. ?Nothing can really replace El Taurino burritos and its hot sauce, but this Halal cart comes prettttyy close. I remember my friend joked that they put crack in El taurino burritos, and I almost believed her. It's just that good (and addicting), and halal comes a close second. I get the combination plate which includes both chicken and the lamb, even though the lamb meat can get a bit greasy. I don't really like the white sauce but it offsets the spiciness of the hot sauce so I ask it to be put on the side anyway. ?I would eat it all day everyday if I wasn't such a health freak!
I have a hard time understanding what the hype is about this cart. After hearing rave reviews, I set out to try this cart. ?The line was EXTREMELY long! As I waited in line my anticipation grew to try this "delicious" meal. ? It tasted every to me. ?If you don't slather it without the white sauce, the dish doesn't really have much of a taste, especially the chicken. I will give kudos to the ?large portion size and the fact that you get a 2 small pieces of pita bread, but really I've had better chicken and rice.
My friend and his roommate [ny locals] ?kept raving about this chicken and rice place. So after hitting up our first and only NYC club, we ventured over to this cart that was so well known. Judging by the line, drunk me thought this must be worth the wait since it was basically 2 or 3 am and there was a long ass line!! I think we waited 30 min up to an hour; I'm not sure- time goes relatively slow when you're drunk and hungry. To add to that, we started talking to the guys behind us in line and they traveled across the Hudson from New Jersey just to get some chicken. I guess this place is good enough to expand it's popularity radius to another freaking state. For $6, you get chicken meat, rice, and pita bread in this foil to-go plate container. We grabbed extra white sauce and spicy sauce. It was superrrr good and I actually ended up adding more sauce to it all, making it too spicy for me to eat. =( My friend had to go stand in line again [in the rain] just to buy me a water bottle. I shared mine with my friend and we both got full. So portions were goooood. I speak of this place very highly and will mention/recommend it to anyone that is taking a trip to New York.
I haven't tried every halal food cart in the city yet so I can't say for sure which is best, but so far, after having tried quite a few, none have really compared to 53rd and 6th. The white sauce is just awesome, the red sauce is very spicy (I can only handle a few drops), the chicken and lamb are both really good and you get a lot of bang for your buck. ?I journey here from the east village with the subway just to get it sometimes and if I'm ever uptown I try to swing by ?-- it's totally worth it
Given all the top notch reviews, I expected a lot the first time I went here (last night with my co-worker). ?Yep, there was the long ass line; the robotic conveyor set-up. ?The food was good, but I didn't find it noteworthy by any means. ?The place also lack the warmth found from many street food vendors around the city. ?I think I will go to another halal food cart where I'm greeted with a warm, "Hi Miss, what can I get you?"
A must-hit cart food if you ever in NY. We need more of these cart foods in SF. Its was easy finding this cart after the bars just look for a really long line! I waited about 10 min. for a $6 for a 8 x 1.5 pie pan. Well worth the money. Filled with yellow rice. Topped with season minced chicken and lamb with a side of lettuce and pita bread. AMAZING and SIMPLE! Dont forget to add the white yogurt sauce. Carful with the hot sauce. Its HELL in your mouth. My brother went crazy with it unknowingly . Had to run to the drink cart next to it!
There's always a long line but it moves fast. Make sure you have your money ready and know your order, otherwise you'll be dismissed! I had the chicken on rice w/plenty of white sauce (a mix b/t ranch & yogurt) Great drunken eats or late night sustenance. A $6 plate is enough to feed 2!
Went here at about 4 am on Friday night, sat morning. ?The line was around the block! ?I was thinking is this place really worth standing in line this long. ?Well I finally found out. ?The meat was really tender and juicy. ?But the best part was the HOT sauce. ?Everyone warned me about it, I tried to be very easy with it, but a lot poured out! ?It was SO hot, and I am used to heat! ?I loved it. I wish I knew what they put in it so I could make some at home!
The one place I don't mind standing in line and eating outdoors (in an uncivilized fashion) for. What makes them so special is their sauce.... I'm salivating a little just thinking about it. Weirder because I'm normally not a fan of eating cooked animals... Don't be fooled by their little container of hot sauce-- that stuff is lethal! And I get sad when they're stingy with their white sauce, but if you harass them enough, they'll give you more. :)
The little halal food cart that could. Feed New York's hordes of drunken masses, that is... BACKGROUND ---------------------- Back when I kinda sorta moved here in January, I had no idea this particular cart even existed. A few weeks later at work, a colleague of mine posed a trivia question for a prize: "What is New York's most famous landmark?" A) Empire State Building B) Statue of Liberty C) Central Park D) Brooklyn Bridge or E) Halal Food Cart at 53rd & 6th? "Huh?" I pondered aloud, "What kind of choice is that? There are halal food carts all over Manhattan." "You don't understand. This cart is special. It's far above all the other carts. It's all about the chicken and rice," was the enthusiastic response. "People wait in the longest line for it. And there are the sauces! You must have the sauce. You don't understand. It's the best thing ever!" "Uh, you're quite excited about this chicken and rice. And sauce. So, when do you usually eat at this cart?" I asked. "Late at night after hitting the bars and clubs," was the immediate response. "I see." And so I remained skeptical, for anything tastes amazing at 3 in the morning and several drinks later... FAST FORWARD TO JUNE... ---------------------------------------- I have the day off. For some reason I am also watching the Today Show. And for some reason, Jenna Wolfe is waiting in line at the halal food cart at 53rd and 6th at lunchtime, boring the crap out of anyone within earshot, to make a point that the line for this cart is insanely long, even in the middle of the day with a good majority of the patrons in suits. "Why are you waiting 40 minutes for food from a cart?" she asked someone. "Cause it's amazing?" was the response. Still, I remained skeptical... FAST FORWARD TO JULY 4th ------------------------------------------ Heat! Humidity! Sitting on 12th Ave for hours on end! Fireworks! So those all happened. I was with friends from out of town. They were tired and wanted to go back to where they were staying. For a while I thought I would head back to Jersey myself. But then... "You're already in midtown...." my brain said. "Now is your chance to check this cart for yourself." My autopilot took over. I bid my friends adieu at Times Square and made a beeline up 6th, passing countless other halal food carts along the way. "This is stupid," I thought to myself. Yet I kept walking. And I reached the corner of 53rd & 6th. And there were 50 people in line. And I got in the back of it. "Still stupid," I thought. Yet I kept waiting. And waiting. And waiting. Eventually I got the front. And I noticed the yellow-shirted guys were working at a furious pace. Slicing shawrma off the spit. Scooping up chopped chicken. Cutting up pita. But there was no menu to be found. What the hell do I get? Uh... "Chicken & lamb!" I blurted out. The guy quickly nodded, turned around, and yelled it out. And in no time flat a round foil container full of rice was covered in chicken, lamb, and pita slices. And then, it was in my hands. I looked at it. "This....is it?!" It didn't look like it was something half of New York would be tripping themselves over, but what do I know? I then looked to the right of the cart, and the person who ordered before me was squeezing the life out of a plastic bottle onto his bowl, completey drowning it in white sauce. "The sauce," I remembered. "It's all about the sauce." And so I walked over, squirted a fair amount of white sauce. And a more than hefty amount of the spicy red sauce, too. And then I sat down. On the sidewalk. And proceeded to eat... AND....? ------------- HOLY MOTHER OF HALAL FOOD CARTS THAT RED SAUCE IS HOT! It was fiery and amazing. A hellacious sweet symphony in my mouth. I then started to hiccup uncontrollably. And also started sweating profusely. But I couldn't stop eating. Oh my God. I ate. And I ate. No one was around to tell me to slow down. Whatever. Mixed the red sauce with the white sauce with the rice and chicken and everything else. And kept eating. Was the food that good? Or was I that hungry? (I did walk 8 miles earlier that day). Or was there something else in it? Crack? I couldn't tell. But I plowed through the whole container in one sitting. Stone cold sober. I looked around me. Countless other people of every color and creed were doing the same thing. This halal food cart, on the 4th of July, truly has brought everyone together. I would have felt more sentimental and patriotic, but it was late. SO WHY NOT 5 STARS? ---------------------------------- I think I made the mistake of not eating at any other halal food cart before this. I'll need to do so, for comparison's sake, and adjust my ratings accordingly. TIP ----- A second cart is at 52nd & 6th. Same yellow-shirted guys, probably to help with the overflow.
I don't get the hype about this place. My falafel was dry and bland, the lettuce was limp, and the sauce tasted like it was about to turn. If you want the best halal in the neighborhood, try BBDO Worldwide. Those dudes know how to do it right. yelp.com/biz/bbdo-worldw?
noooooooooooo
Never fails... Cheap good eats with incredible white sauce and some red spice to give it that extra kick. Choice of chicken, lamb or combo. I personally prefer the chicken. Now they have 3 stands!!! All you see are men in yellow dominating 53rd and 6th. And yes...they are all from the same company. If you come to the east, definitely try this street food cart landmark. Be warned...lines can get ridiculous especially after the clubs close...but well worth the wait!!!!
Disclaimer - I enjoy playing stomach chicken. That said, you can't really compare this to the other street carts because it really is THAT much better. ?First bite - nice, pleasantly salty, flavorful.. ?and somewhere between that bite and chewing though the aluminum platter I'm pretty sure I found true love. ?I blanked out in the middle. The lamb and chicken are equally amazing, and getting the combo means you can take a few bites of each...long enough to need a reminder of the flavor of the other...then bounce back...and so on. ?It's hard to describe the flavors because they are VERY bold and unlike the street meat at other carts in their complexity. ?Sounds like an oxymoron - it is street meat - but in all honesty this is a delicious meal that will sneak up and haunt your munchies. ?I'm craving it now. The white sauce - awesome. ?No idea what it is, probably illegal in all states but Texas. ?The hot sauce - LISTEN TO ALL THE PEOPLE WHO WARN YOU ABOUT IT! ?This isn't your typical mediterranean-restaurant half-asses hot sauce. ?Nor is it lame and mild like "hot wing" sauce...or even medium like sriracha. ?This stuff is pretty HOT! ? I'd write more but it's 12:45am and I think I can still make it.
I TOTALLY GOT DUPED!!!!!!! Yesterday at around 4:30pm, I went to 53rd and 6th for my beloved/signature halal platter - lamb, rice, salad, extra white sauce, extra pita, and a little bit of hot sauce. Forgetting the rules of the halal cart, I went to the SOUTHWEST corner (where you usually see the EXTENSIVE line at 2am) instead of the SOUTHEAST corner (the one owned by the same people that everyone tends to forget about), forgetting that...DOH!...The dreaded IMPOSTER CART plants their roots on the SOUTHWEST corner from 12 noon til 7pm!! CRAP! I'll admit that the food was... ok... but absolutely NOT the same as the deliciousness that I usually cannot bring myself to stop eating...so in order to save anyone else from making the dreaded mix up, I figured that I would take the time to compile a bit of a guide to figuring out the REAL 53rd and 6th Cart from THE IMPOSTERS ...(and believe me, it's no easy task as the imposters try seriously hard to impersonate the AUTHENTIC 53rd and 6th Cart.) - Do NOT be fooled by lines. ?The 53rd and 6th corner on the SOUTHWEST side will almost always have a long line...why? Not necessarily because they are the REAL cart, but because many tourists whom have passed by the EVENING before and have seen the long line become curious about the cart and then decide to have lunch there the next day to see what all of the fuss is about...WRONG! These are NOT the same people...Here are the hours of operation for the authentic 53/6... SOUTHWEST Corner of 53rd and 6th: 7:30pm - 4am SOUTHEAST Corner of 53rd and 6th: 12pm - 4am - There ARE other locations! Yes, that's right, no longer is the signature taste of the 53rd and 6th Cart exclusive to 53rd St. and 6th Ave., there are other locations that are run by the very same owners... SOUTHEWEST Corner of 53rd and 7th: 12pm - ? Corner of 52nd and 6th (I believe it is the SOUTHWEST Corner) - Yellow Shirts are NOT the determining factor. ?That's right ladies and gents...the imposters have been studying the authentics for quite some time, they come fully equipped, yellow shirts and all! BUT there are a few differences. ?The authentic 53/6 cooks and staff wear yellow shirts with the following: "The Best HALAL Delicious....Gyro and chicken...We Are Different...www.53rdand6th.com", in red text in a circular format with a bar going through the center of the graphic which reads, "6th Ave. & 53rd St." ? The imposters have red text in a circular format as well, but with a big red apple in the center! ?AH HA! - No White Bags Allowed. The authentic 53/6 cart has YELLOW bags with RED writing, NOT white bags. ?The bags also have almost the same text in a circular pattern as the shirts, but instead of a bar going through the circle, there is a graphic of a skewer of lamb meat in the center. If you got a white bag, ?you too have just been PUNK'D by the imposters! - S.O.S. That's right, "Serve your Own Sauce!" The athentic cart usually NEVER puts sauce on your food for you, which is TRULY the fun of the whole experience. I mean having the choice to SLATHER your own food in gobs of white sauce or choosing to strategically place one squirt should be a constitutional right, right? At the authentic 53/6, they believe so too as there are COUNTLESS squirt bottles of "White" sauce, hot sauce and bbq sauce lined up on the side of the cart for you to help yourself to. But the imposters feel otherwise as they choose to serve the sauce FOR YOU, dictating just how much sauce you should/shouldn't have..Hmph! (SN: If you are ordering "to go", the authentic cart also has big cups of white sauce and small cups of hot sauce to lace your bag with...ask for EXTRA...no, I'm serious...EX...TRA...) - Tangy white sauce?? Ew. Chances are, if you got tangy white sauce, then consider yourself DUPED by the imposters! ?The authentic owners would NOT allow for that, they have a reputation to uphold! Plus, at the normal ratio of white sauce to customer, the sauce doesn't even have a CHANCE to get tangy as they must go through TONS of this stuff a day! Therefore, blame it on the ...DUN DUN DUN DUNNNN..IMPOSTER CART!!!! *Cue horror flick screams* Hope that this has been somewhat helpful and you don't make the same mistake that I did! Enjoy yourself and don't forget when you go to the authentic 53/6, just utter these 4 magical words... EXTRA WHITE SAUCE, PLEASE! :)
I went to this spot TWICE. I had chicken w/ lamb and rice from both the "real" 53rd and 6th halal cart and the "fake" guys. They were both bad!! from a person who have had halal food from carts all over Queens I just don't understand how people could think this taste good. The sauce is tangy and even a little hot sauce could ruin the whole entire meal. This is the only place where i have tasted sour white sauce I was worried that the sauce spoiled and the hot sauce is suppose to be tasty, that hot sauce was too hot it made the sour tasting sauce and mediocre meat and rice even worst. It just blows my mind how people could think this is the best...there are sooo many other halal carts over NYC where the food actually has nice flavor. I think maybe because it's open early in the morning when people are starving it seems like it taste amazing but never again will I settle for this stuff....I could get some great halal food all over queens...i suggest people try other places before they go calling this place great. plus instead of paying 6 you'll be paying 4.50 of 5.00 dollars in mostttt other places.
This place is amazing. Last time I visited New York was about the time the Internet was still in it's infancy; wayyyy to long ago. I came here today and waited in line for 15 minutes in the afternoon and was not disappointed. I ordered an everything with lots of white sauce and a little hot (be careful, that hot is really hot) I tried to go again at 3:00am and the line was even longer. I passed the place a few times throughout the day and the line NEVER got shorter.
SO GOOD! the red sauce is very spicy. The white sauce is very good. There are 3 different carts..i didn't wait in the super long line. And it was delicious!!!! 2 of us shared one, and it was enough. ?The plates are pretty big. ?You can order half chicken half lamb! ?we did :)
Rarely do I give a place 5 stars but this is HANDS DOWN, the best street meat cart in the city...and I've eaten a lot of street meat! ?It's consistent and always worth the wait. ?Lamb, no rice, chopped up pita, hot and extra white. ?That's the order right there. ?For 5 bucks, theirs no better deal in town. ? Rain, Snow, Sleet or Hail?!?! ?Psshtt. ?See you there every Friday.
This cart is the epitome of chicken and rice. I order food from a couple of carts here and there, BUT THIS IS THE BEST. - DO NOT OVER DO THE HOT SAUCE. YOU MAY DIE. - This cart lets you put on the sauces yourself. ( I went there at one in the morning, maybe they do it differently in the day) - Expect a line. As I said, I was there at one in the morning, and there was a line (mine you it is December). - The bbq sauce is a tad hot too. - Besides all the warnings above, the food is so good it makes you happy an hour after eating it. I got the combination of chicken and lamb. - Even if theres 20 people ahead of you the wait still wont be very long. I think it was like 7 or 8 dollars. Somewhat pricey for a halal cart BUT IT WAS SO DAMN GOOD IT REALLY DOES NOT MATTER.
If you've ever crunked it in NYC and wanted something cheap and awesome at 4am, you know about this place! ?It's street food at it's finest, in heaping quantity, in an aluminum pan. Most people I've encountered call it "chicken and rice", but I think the lamb and rice is king. ?Be careful with the hot sauce! ?I'm a wimp with spiciness, but even my more manly friends have cited its potency. ?And just hold the vegetables. ?Honestly, we're here to indulge, so it just takes up space. If you come around the corner and see a horribly long line, don't fret! ?These guys move fast. ?Many times, I've been 3/4 down the block, and I get my food in less than 10 minutes. If you're driving, DON'T park on 53rd! ?It's no parking at all times--I learned that the hard way. ?And beware of imitators. ?Basically, if there isn't a massive line, you're at the wrong cart.
It was 4am, about 5 degrees outside and we were drunk. The line was about 100 people long. No joke. I'm not really sure what I was eating but someone told me to ask for chicken and rice and at 4 am when you're freezing and drunk anything tastes good.
CHICKEN & RICE!!!! The line in the summer is down the block but they got it down to a science....the mixed plate [chicken & lamb] is the best with extra,i dont even wanna know whats in it but its stupid good white sauce...$6 a plate and your full....i'd suggest bring your own drink and napkins cause they act like napkins cost 750000 and give you two...check it out and if it doesnt make you crap black stuff for 3 days get it again...i really think they put crack in the chicken cause i crave this stuff!
What's all this rave about chicken and rice in NYC?? I had to see what everyone was talking about. I went in zero degrees weather to wait in that ridiculously long line. It was so worth the wait. My fingers were about to fall off, but the chicken and lamb combo provided enough grease and flavor to keep me happy. I drenched the platter in the white and hot sauce (is a must!). The little pitas were really soft and delicious! Although it must have been 2,000 calorie meal, you have to try it at least once in your lifetime. Great street food.
Oh man this place had been so hyped up for me, ever since it opened people told me about, sent me pictures of it, and told me I hadddd to go there. The opportunity finally opened up, when after 3 years away from nyc I finally went back. I think going here was #1 on my agenda, even more than going to whatever club or bar (signs that I have indeed aged). It was really cold that night ( at least for us cali people) and our buzz was dying as we waited in line. There was only one thing to do... sing the chicken and rice song. ?" chicken and rice, chicken and rice, chicken and chicken and chicken and rice!" hahah the funniest part was when this other girl next to me overheard and started singing it with me. Not loud and obnoxiously, just quietly to ourselves as if in a trance to block out the cold and focus on our main goal.. chicken and rice. This place delivered! I didn't try their lamb or anything else, just straight chicken and rice covered and smothered in white sauce and red sauce. We took it home and finished the rest in the morning.. haha literally us 4 girls woke up all around the same time, came around the little breakfast table, got out our chicken and rice bowls, and ate in silence. Lol cracks me up just thinking about how disgusting we must have looked hair tossed in a loose ponytail to one side with leftover mascara smudged all over our eyes. YUM~ till we meet again halal cart, I WILL BE BACK!!
After a private screening at the Ziegfield theater on Wednesday night, my friends and I came here to grab some dinner at 10:30-ish. My friend was shocked the line was so short as he recalls the line usually snake around somewhere making all the other halal carts look sad. It made him really suspicious that these Halal cart guys were imitators of the original ones that he ran half a block to check it out. And to his surprise these were the actual guys and not knockoffs. The wait was 5-10 minutes and bam 3 platters of Halal food. We took our platters and walked to the end of the block to sit and enjoy some street food. I've heard of them for the longest, but as a New Yorker I've never had their food until that night. I mean people from around the globe has beat me to it ages ago and I can't believe what I've been missing out on the entire time. I have to agree they are really good and the portion is pretty big. I couldn't finish it and took it home. At home my housemate who always go after my leftovers even questioned if I had touched my food at all because there were so much left that it looks like I didn't touch it lol. But hearing all those long line horror stories, I guess I lucked out with the wait and got to try some really good Halal food!
So good I want to fly from LA just to get it...
You can't beat street vendor food in NYC! I've heard from locals that people wait in loooooooooong lines for their food, I'm talking down the street around the corner status like at 2 in the morning. Unfortunately, I didn't get to see any of that. Anyway, the food. Yum! Took 2 platters back to the hotel with me. One for brunch, and the other for the airport/flight back home. Definitely satisfying.
The best indeed. ?Chicken and rice, white and red sauce (other reviewers are right, insanely hot), toasted pita and just enough lettuce and onions to cool that fire down. ?Grab some on your way to the airport- just dont forget to grab a drink too
My mouth watered so bad when I was going through the pictures and rating a few. This place is great - no matter what the few "too good to eat cart food" people say, this place. IS GREAT. The line is huge, even on a rainy day, but it moves super fast. and their food, oh god, their food. So good. I am in love with the white sauce, and would put it on everything - have repeatedly considered stealing one of the squeeze bottles.... sigh. The hot sauce is just mean! And no one tells you at first, because they want to see you suffer. "This is all the hot sauce they give you?!" - my first trip. I got back on the line 5 minutes later for a new plate, because I could not, for the life of me, eat the one I poured the hot sauce on. (and just not eating... isn't an option.)
Sorry, but I'm just not sure what the hype is all about. ?Especially when there is an "identical" cart on the opposite side of the plaza (52nd & 6th), run by what appears to be the same company. ?Same food, same price, same yellow bags, same yellow t-shirts, NO LINE! ?This is like the short line at the DMV. ?We've all seen it, and all wanted to get in the line, but some underlying primordial fear stops us for some reason. ?Well last night, I decided to conduct an experiment of my own. ?My girlfriend and I each bought one combo plate (lamb and chicken) from each place, sauce on the side and tried them side by side. ?Now, I'm sure that my palate isn't a developed as some of the yelpers who swear by the original one, but I could not discern a meaningful difference between the two. ?My girlfriend says that the chicken is a little more moist and a little less salty from the original one, but I think there is some bias going on here. ?Maybe next time I will conduct a double blind test! ?If there is anything different, I would suspect it's caused by a self-fulfilling prophecy as well - ?people think the long-line one is better, so they keep going to that one, the no-line one gets less people, hence less turnover, hence drier meat since it's been sitting around longer. ? For my money and time, I'm going to the short line!
this is about the best stop you can make after a night of drinking or if you are looking to get your moneys worth on food from a cart. this middle eastern food is fantastic. you must get the white sauce whatever the hell it is it tastes good. they cook lamb or chicken and they place it over rice with onions and other veggies.. the taste amazing. there are two and i repeat two carts owned by the same people but for some reason there are always huge lines on the one closer to the west side.. example one line will have 25 people the other 4 people. both carts have same name and same yellow shirts but people like lines i guess.. walk across the street and save yourself 20 minutes. price for plate is like 7 dollars and will last you about 2 meals..
I have been going quite a bit lately. It is really good and a lot of food for 6 bucks. Try the BBQ sauce with the white sauce. The line around 1ish had not been that bad...maybe only 20 min wait. It is kinda nasty to see these guys making the food on a hot night. Although they all seem nice enough, I have not seen any of them wearing plastic gloves. The last few times I have gone it was really warm out and they were all sweating quite a bit...rubbing their faces off and then moving the pittas around. I guess that adds a little salt to the bread. Kinda nasty if you allow yourself to think about it. Would it kill them to put some gloves on?? The truth is if I'm really concerned about food safety and ?hygiene I should probably not be eating at a cart. Well, that may be a bit too strong a statement as I have been impressed with how clean and hygienic some other carts in the city look. Whatever...suck it up and go enjoy. If people were getting sick from this cart you would hear about it on yelp and that does not seem to be the case!
Our hotel was located conveniently across the street from this cart and we were able to pick-up a cheap and quick dinner before our show. ? We ordered a gyro and lamb on rice dish for only $5 each. ?This was more than enough food for 3 of us share. ?Both meals had lots of meat which was moist and tasty. ?Amazing value for the amount of food we got. Somehow we happened to be hungry when nobody else was and only had to wait for a handful of customers before us. ?We went around dinner time - about 6:30 p.m. ?We passed by a few other times and noticed at least 20 people in line each time. ?Late at night we noticed probably closer to 50 people in line. ?A friend told us he waited about an hour for his food around midnight! While it was a delicious meal and great value for the amount of food, I'm not sure I would wait for an hour in the heat. ?If you're desperate for food, there are several other carts nearby just waiting for your business.
Good stuff but damn I mixed the white and red together and I'm burning up. Nobody told me how hot this was going to be. ?Okay that was back in February when I squirted a quarter cup worth of the red stuff and since learned my lesson. Now in June we stopped by here twice. The first night I had one bite cause I wasn't feelin it, but Sunday I ate half of my girlfriends and I was so happy and it all tasted so good. It wasn't too hot this time around and yes this is the best hala in the area. The lines are always long but well worth the wait. ?We ate the lamb and chicken combo. for $6 bones it filled us up.
Hands down, best food cart in NYC. Also, there are so many chicken and rice carts in NYC but none makes it right the way this one does. When I first heard of this place I thought to myself it's just chicken and rice, how good can it be? I was even more baffled by the block-long line and hour-long wait. It was not until I tasted the combo plate then I immediately became a believer. For $6 combo plate, you get chicken, lamb, rice, lettuce and pita bread. You can also just get the chicken (they are all $6) but in my opinion the plate taste better with a mix of lamb. The key ingredient that completes the dish is the secret sauce that they boast about and it really makes a world of difference when compared to other chicken and rice stands. It's a white sauce that looks like mayo, you mix it with the rest of the ingredients and you have your legendary NYC chicken and rice plate. You can also add hot sauce at your own discretion but beware, it's VERY spicy (and also very good!) couple drops can add a nice spicy kick to the plate...and couple more drops of that...your mouth & stomach will be on fire. This place has got me coming back here every time I visit NYC, that's how good it is!
This is what I think - if you didn't rate them 5 stars, you either visited them at a real bad time, pissed some of the staff off, lost your appetite after waiting 50 minutes, or I don't know...you were having a piss-poor day. These guys ROCK. ?Lamb platter, chicken platter, combination platter, they are all equally awesome and indescribably satisfying considering you just spent $6. ?Falafels - I don't dig their falafels. ?These cart boys are not known for falafels. ?If you went there for falafels, you're probably dining at many other restaurants and ordering the wrong stuff. ?They probably offer falafels on the menu for the girlfriends who were dragged there by their boyfriends and never dreamed of eating what initially may appear to be very insanitary and borderline in violation of all health department codes. ? Yes, their hot sauce can be too hot. ?At times, it gets so darn hot that my eardrums and head actually start to feel funny. ?But that's ok. ?It's all part of the 53rd & 6th experience. The meat/rice platters are so good that some of my ibanker friends that work in the area eat late night snacks here 3 times a week. ?Of course, they all make $500,000 a year and can afford to walk down a block to Del Frisco's and eat their porterhouse three meals a day...but they don't. ?They rely on the cart to satiate their hunger. Now, health related concerns. ?I'm sure the place can modify a few things here and there to improve the perception by those that haven't had their platters. ?However, I don't think it's all too bad. ?I personally feel fine eating here than going to Taco Bell that's had rodent issues for the past 4 years. ?One thing though....I hope the cashier guy doesn't handle the food though. ?It does make me lose my appetite for the 30 seconds during the interaction. ?Of course, my appetite runs full-steam as soon as he hands over the food. ? Anyone visiting NYC really should try the place out. ?It's cheap, not too slow if you visit during non-peak hours, and most importantly, the food is addictively delicious.
YOU CANNOT BE SERIOUS! Is this really what the fuss is all about? Waaaaay overrated. After meeting some friends at MoMA for art over drinks[1], I decided to give this food cart a try. The loooooong line of people at 8 pm on a muggy Thursday evening in August looked promising. Alas, this place was a major letdown. Although the line was long, I was served pretty quickly. This cart works as an assembly line, with containers with rice and lettuce already in it all stacked up on the side. I asked for lamb platter to go[2]. I was given the container open; when I repeated that it was to go, I was handed a lid. I then asked for white and hot sauce, and was told rather briskly to help myself to the sauce containers on the back of the track. I poured sauce from both the white and red (unmarked) bottle and left. At home I had the bad surprise to discover that instead of hot sauce I poured bbq sauce on my dish. I HATE bbq sauce. Why the hell don't they label the containers?! Another bad surprise was the meat: was this really lamb? It didn't taste like lamb. It tasted like bland burger meat. Was it good? No Was it that bad? No It was just mediocre Meh. I've experienced better. --------------------------------------------------?------------- [1] Or was it for drinks over art...? [2] This cart is more expensive than your average street cart: $6 for a platter instead of 5.
Can't get enough of the chicken platters + the WHITE SAUCE = PARTY IN MY MOUTH!!!!!
You know you had a good night if you're drunk and standing on line at 3:00 am. Nothing completes a night of crazy partying but standing on line for halal. I like to get half chicken half lamb. The red sauce is too spicy for me but the white sauce is delish. It's alot of food. Don't worry if you can't finish, re-heat it the next day and it still tastes good. Remember, there are 2 carts. There is one across 6th avenue and the line is usually shorter.
Oh my god, me and my cousin were bored one night and I was craving some good arabic food, and I had the gyro from here before and it was so amazing, so we rushed out my house and went to the city from brooklyn just to get this food, it was around 845pm and the line wasnt that long I was suprised ! One of the guys was cute lol, but anyway, the hot sauce is freaking hot, and Im arab so when I say it was hot it was REALLLLY hot. ?the white sauce was so amazing I had to get extra lol, I had the chicken and lamb combo platter, I went home and devoured that food, lol It took me an hour to get home and my food was still hot, It was so worth it
Wow. Yum. Best food for the price in NYC.
This cart is worth the wait!! People do not be fooled! There are a lot of Halal carts, but you have to go to this one. It's a great place to go for the late night grub. ? You have the choice of the chicken or lamb. Be warned! It's a LOT of food. You really get your money's worth! I had the chicken, which was deeelish! Came with pita bread and the meat sat on a pile of rice and lettuce. You have the choice of having it as a platter or wrapped in a pita as a sandwich. You can top it off with the "white" or "red" sauce and they also offer ketchup. The red sauce is super spicy so go easy on it or you'll have a "great" time later. I have no idea what the white sauce was but it's tasty.
You haven't experienced a complete NYC nightlife until you've had the lamb/chicken over rice at 4 am on the path to sobriety. I see a few complaints that it's overrated and the meat is dry. If I were one of the beginners ordering "chicken over rice"...I would have to agree. You have to go with lamb over rice to get the full flavor.
We were looking for a quick fix after watching the Lion King. We got to the cart right about 11:40ish PM and the line was long and easy to spot! We waited for about half an hour before getting to the front of the line. For $6 bucks, we got rice, seasoned chicken, ground beef and salad on the side. Topped with their famous white sauce! Remember to put LOTS white sauce on top of your rice!! ? If you are looking for some yummy halal food, make sure you stop by this cart. And trust me, you won't miss the cart- just look for a long line on 53rd and 6th!
I crave this all the time. =( I would go to New York just for this...haha WHITE SAUCE! Chicken and Rice made right and available at the best late night hours. =D Huge yummy portions for prices that make your wallet ridiculously happy!
The next trip to NY is in order to have Halal on 53rd!!!! I had this 2x during a week stay in NY. One was after the club and one after a whole day of walking around the city. ? The food is excellent! Meat is tender and very tasty. Rice is perfectly cooked with lots of flavor. Veggies are fresh. The serving is enough for 2 hungry people who can EAT! The second time I had Halal, I was on my own. I didn't share with anyone!!! I like to smother my rice, meat and veggies with the white sauce! The line looks very overwhelming, but 'Halal on 53rd' is super fast! It's all about organization. There must've been 3 people manning the cart. One person taking your order / cashier, 2nd person cooking and watching the meat, 3rd person plating and packing your food. WARNING: Hot sauce is extremely HOT!
Fairly standard chicken and rice cart. ?(Gyro guys?) ?Anyway, how excited could one really get over iceberg lettuce? These guys have a gold mine. ?Personally, I think the secret is in the rice. ?Spices are just right. ?If you're looking for Spanish-style yellow rice, try another cart... their lines are probably shorter. Oh wait, then there's the hot sauce! IT BURNS! ?SO! ?GOOD! ?Next time, I will probably opt to take one of the little containers they have on the side instead of having the guy put the hot sauce on for you (I got a pocket of fire at one point) but it's delish. ?Harissa, I believe? ? And, seriously... for FIVE DOLLARS, you get more than enough food for lunch. ?FIVE DOLLARS! ?My damn coffee usually costs five dollars. ?This is freaking Midtown! Go to the cart on the SE corner - it's the same owner/food as the one on the SW corner at night. ?(The "famous" one.) ?Look for the yellow bags that say, "WE ARE DIFFERENT". ?midtownlunch.com/2007/11? If by different, you mean delicious...** ? **I am still a bit loopy from eating all of that food at lunch. ?Forgive me.
I am convinced that this place is frequented by people who are not true aficionados of gyro guys (I refuse to call them halal carts). Somehow this random, underwhelming gyro guy has been anointed by a herd of dilettantes as worthy of praise when he is in fact outclassed by all but the worst. This guy is to gyros what Nicky's is to banh mi - people are inexperienced and they find it accessible, so they assume it must be the best when there is a whole galaxy of better options. I was having a conversation with a friend right before we came here for dinner. We were talking about how all gyro guys are very similar, and even the best one isn't that different from an average one. I postulated that no one even knows what the worst gyro guy they have been to is, since they are all so similar. Sadly I was proven wrong. This is the worst gyro guy I have been to. The chicken is bland. The lamb was dry and chopped up into pieces that were too small. The rice was boring. I've seen things you people couldn't imagine put into gyro guy rice - cinnamon sticks, peppers, onions, some real flavorful stuff. None of it was here. I had to apply my own sauce. This is America, I shouldn't have to apply my own sauce. The hot sauce was too spicy and they were niggardly with it. Sorry if I don't want to reach into your greasy, disgusting sack of additional hot sauces, guys, just throw me a bone and squirt that shit on my gyro. While you're at it, get a better container. I can barely whip out my dick in midtown without accidentally taking a piss on a bomb-ass gyro guy, but somehow the most famous of all is awful. Get real people.
THIS IS THE DEFINITION of BOMB NY FOOD. Cheap, Simple, PLENTY and most importantly DELICIOUS!!! Here's the deal. My BF and I got off the plane after a 7 hour flight looking for LEGIT food and I had read about this cart, so we get ourselves to the Port Authority bus station and walk to 53rd and 6th (since we weren't too familiar with the NY metro stops) with all our luggage and seriously it took awhile to walk with all that weight and I was getting scared that the whole walk wouldn't be worth it, but then when we saw the 30+ minute wait line I knew something was definitely crackin about this cart... esp when ever other cart we passed were empty as hell. Simple good Chicken, Simple good Lamb, Simple good Rice, Simple good FLUFFY Pita, a tub of that crack white sauce, $6 outta your pocket into theirs and you're good to go. These guys aren't selfish... they will definitely pack that food in to the top of the tin. After getting our meals, my boyfriend and I realized that we probably should've shared one cause it's THAT much food... seriously if you're STILL hungry after this meal I bow down to you cause you're officially fattier than I am... don't worry it's not a bad thing
mmMMMmMMmmmmMmmM This place is sooooooo damn good!!!! I actually tried this back in 2005. ?I didn't know it actually had it's own rating on Yelp. ?All I remember is "Chicken and Rice" in NYC! ? Anywho, I've tried both the platter and the gyro. ?They're both excellent. ?I've had it a total of 6 times, and everytime I went, the line was super long. ?It's worth it though. ?Juicy grilled chicken, moist rice, salad, white sauce and the Pi?ce de r?sistance....... HOT red sauce. ?For me, its the red sauce that kept me coming back. ?PEOPLE, hear my warning, this sh$# is HOT HOT HOT. ?Sooooooo spicy, and I'm Vietnamese. ?If you ever had El Taurino red sauce, its similar, but about three times more spicier. ?I couldn't stop making that "ssszzssszzsszzzsss" sound til 30 min after I had finished. ?LOL, I'm serious too. ? It seems there's a lot of detailed info on how to find the right cart, so I won't even try. ?I don't live in NY, but I get cravings for this place once in a while and it makes me reminisce. ?*sigh* Too bad there's nothing like that around my area. ?If anyone knows of something similar in OC/LA, hit me up. ?Please!!!
I hate when people hype up places, and it turns out to be a letdown! ?Not that the chicken and rice wasn't good, but I was expecting it to be awesome - like my last meal on earth, I have to fly to NYC just to get this and only this awesome. For a good couple bites, I thought the yellow stuff was cheese - no, it's just yellow rice. ?Next time I'm in NY, I'm going to try it while less than sober, and I'm sure it will get a star bump after that.
after totally getting screwed by the food truck festival at governors island, i was over eating out of a food truck in NY. But, it was 10 PM on sunday night and my husband and we were hungry. we were staying at the hilton new york for the wknd and noticed that there was a very long line every night so we decided to look them up on good ol' yelp before wandering off to find a slice of pizza. based on the reviews, we decided to wait in the line and try them out. thank God for Yelp because I would not have known what to do when it was my turn to order. But, after reading all the reviews, I knew what was up and got up there and like a regular, I ordered the combo and handed over my $6. I walked over to the sauce cart and poured on the famous white sauce and accidentally squirted on some BBQ sauce (it was dark out). Realizing my mistake, I found the hot sauce bottle and carefully distributed a minimal amount. My thoughts? +the lamb and chicken combo are delicious! I don't ?normally like lamb but my husband loves it so we went with the combo. I couldn't even tell that it was lamb. +white sauce is really that good. seriously, i wonder what's in there because we piled it on and scraped it clean. +hot sauce is very very HOT. im korean, i love spicy and i know i can hold my own but this stuff is no joke. dont try and be a hero and use at your own risk. +the thing is HUGE. we split one and were very full. but i can see how you can finish your own when you've had a little to drink... very good drunk food. lids are on the side of the truck, along with plastic bags that you can help yourself too. you can also get the white and red sauce to go in containers that they have pre-packaged.
Delicious. At first, I thought it was true that you had to be drunk to really think it was amazing but after my 2nd time getting this, I realized how addicting it truly is. I had some leftover on one of the nights I got it (i had it 4 times during my 7 day trip =\ ) and right when the white sauce hit my tongue, I was like, "OHHHH YEAH I MUST FINISH THE REST" even though it was all cold and gross. Haha I was so surprised at how much meat they give. I noticed that if you go when its busier (on monday, there was only 1 person in line around 11pm) they give more meat. On a slow night, they give a ton of rice! The rice is good but the meat makes it worth it! The chicken can be dry sometimes but the lamb is by far the winner. It is so tender and just amazing! Forget the chicken and just get the lamb. You won't be sorry!! They also pack the food in. They give so much meat that the guy couldn't even close my lid and ended up giving me a tiny piece of pita bread just so he would be able to close it! =D **People said the cart on the other block with the same name, t-shirts, and bags are made by the same people but the color of their rice was different...? I didn't risk it though. $6 for a ridiculous amount of delicious lamb, tasty rice, and addicting and drool-inducing white sauce? Why are you still reading this review and not stuffing your self with food from this cart!??!?!?!??!?!
I first came here four years ago when a local friend brought our group of friends here after a night of shenanigans. I forgot about this place, until I stumbled upon it during a recent trip back to NYC. I headed to 5th ave, when I passed by a large crowd at the corner of the Hilton hotel, and realized that this was the famous street cart! The chicken halal with the white sauce and spicy red sauce is the prefect combination. I even had a friend ask me to bring some back to SF. Too bad they don't have a cart out here.
It's 4 in the morning, you haven't met anyone worthwhile during your night out, and you're with your wingman wondering what to do until your next train home. What better than some $7 fatty chicken and rice with good ol' heart attack in a bottle, also known as "White Sauce" complimented by spicy, hot sauce that many mistake for barbecue sauce (I've done this twice, but only regretted it once). If you don't mind waiting about an hour for "the original" chicken and rice halal cart, be my guest. If you're not really a fan of long lines and don't mind un-originality, I invite you to grab chicken and rice from the "wannabe" halal cart that's one block away with 1/2 or maybe even 1/4 the line. Apparently, the late night "ghetto dog" of LA rivals NYC's original chicken and rice, but since I've yet to visit LA, this place will always have my heart at 4am.
Best in the city. ?Long lines but worth the wait. ?Make sure that you get extra sauce.
LAMB OVER RICE with EXTRA HOT SAUCE AND WHITE SAUCE!!! Thanks!!!
Really good Halal street food! It's made fresh and fast. A lit bit heavy but it's Halal! The guy was really nice and I ended my trip with a plate of this, yummy! I didn't get to try the falafel. I'm sad that I didn't. The flavors are truly amazing too! A must try.
Don't miss the chicken & rice here! Best around NYC! I make sure to stop by whenever I'm in town. A huge amount of food for $6.00, and easily sharable. P.S. Get the white sauce + the hot sauce. It makes the dish what it is. P.P.S. Most likely there will be a long line. Stand in it. It'll be worth it!
You may see the lines and roll your eyes and think that it is the latest over-hyped place in NYC. But it really is that good. It's just good! Really. I'm not sure if they put crack in there or what. And I've had all the stuff they sell at other places, but it just amazing here. The lines have been known to start fights, so if someone cuts, say something, but don't get in a fight about it. It's not worth it.
OK, since the secret is out I might as well review it too. For years... and I mean almost half a decade, this was our favorite place to grab an informal bite. The menu is simple they serve rice and Gyros, chicken and lamb or beef which can be a platter of rice and a choice of either of the two or combination with a salad. You can also get the sandwiches which is meat/salad wrapped in pita bread. The food is a local favorite with countless limo and taxi drivers waiting in line. Lines stretch down half the street block. They usually start their cart around 8pm and continue till around 4-5 am. Anytime you go there will be a line so expect to wait at least 15-20 minutes before getting served. Its nice clean and decent food. Wish they had something like that on the West coast......
We had A LOT of people tell us that we needed to try the Halal Cart. ?And not just any halal cart mind you--as there are MANY sprinkled up and down Manhattan. But we needed to go to this very particular cart on the corner of 53rd Street and 6th Avenue. I walked up to the cart and asked the somewhat grumbling guy what he suggested for me to have. "You like lamb?" he asked. "YES!" I answered. "I make you lamb and chicken combo." he grumbled. After a series of a few more questions (sauce-no sauce, spicy--no spicy), he handed me over a surprisingly heavy plate in a bright yellow bag. I forked over my 6 bucks and we were on our way. It smelled divine. Back in the comforts of my brother's place, I ripped open the bagged and lifted the cover to discover the most amazing aromas and pile of goodness. Forget the forks we needed spoons to shovel in this goodness!!! Juicy and flavorful chopped lamb mixed with the wonderful sauces--what is that white sauce anyway?! Who cares, it was amazing! The hot sauce was SPICY but I loved it. The chicken was also VERY tasty but I was all about the lamb. All paired with seasoned rice and the softest pita I've ever had. HOLY MOLY--was this goodness really only $6!!! It was as heavy as a newborn baby! Easily a meal for 2. Delicious, cheap, filling--I'm ALL over it! Long lines at the Cart are supposedly quite the norm but lucky for us...we had none :) Believe the hype folks....it really is THAT good. ?P.S. They're open until 4am...how amazing is that?!
So, if you've been to one halal cart, you've been to them all, right? Wrong. These guys have an amazing combination on their hands (or beards as the case is). Their meats and sauces (especially that oft-mentioned white sauce) are absolutely amazing. I suggest getting the combo plate and using the hot sauce as well. The only downside is waiting in that long line...but that line is the surefire way to know that you are at the right cart; there is another one across the street that is almost depressingly empty.
Came here just there was just that MANY reviews for this one food cart. It's gotta be good right? and yes it was DELICIOUS I went here in the daytime and nightime, but I think the night time one is the legit halal cart :) Nonetheless, amazing lamb and pita bread for an affordable price in Manhattan! I love the white sauce that comes with each order. Hot food on a cold windy day is definitely amazing. I went to NYC with a few club members of UC Davis Model United Nations to attend the 2010 National Model United Nations held at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers. Since it was only a block away, the Yelp App on my iPhone told me that there was this awesome halal cart closeby. Plus one star for staying open until 4am! They're definitely thinking in terms of business for latenight food cravings.
You never disappoint. I hear the evening cart is better than the day one.
This is a great late night eat any day of the week! It's so affordable!!! But I tried both the rice plate and the sandwich/gyro and the rice plate is definitely WAY better than the sandwich. I believe the chicken is better than the lamb as well. Oh and always put extra white sauce on it to make it extra yummy!!! The line wasn't that bad. I think we waited only 30 minutes. I stayed in line for over an hour for the Kogi BBQ truck here in Cali so this line was nothing. Not to mention they serve you super fast. It's like as soon as you tell them what you want, 5 seconds later it's in your hands ready to be eaten! Oh and for you spicy food junkies, they have red sauce. My boyfriend loves spicy foods but even he said it was a bit too spicy for him to handle. So just be warned! Overall, it's so cheap ($6) for a large meal. I love it! I wish we had one of these carts in Cali but alas we do not. Bummer!!!
The Michael Jordan of street meat...enough said.
freaking DELICIOUS!!! we came here after several drinks at bob bar and it was so good. i was partial to the chicken and rice rather than the lamb and rice, but both are good! and i love that you can put as much sauce as you want!! mmmm! i will definitely come back here when i go to NY again =)
OOOO...my favorite thing about NYC! Why isn't there anything like this in Hawaii! ?read the reviews...nuff said! Just go light on the red sauce!
I had the lamb platter. ?Not much else to say except this is the reason why I am NOT a vegan...LOL!
Delicious! Loved the plate with the chicken, pita, lettuce, rice and the white sauce was AMAZING. The hot sauce took my breath away (literally) but was very tasty! The price was great, like 6 bucks for a huge plate of food that could easily be split. Convenient location, very popular and often has a line.
8/28/10 I know...I know. ?And I hyped this place up so much, since I had Sammy's in Queens...and I would have been the first person to tell you to go here...BUT...I'm sorry, I did not like it at all. ? I ordered chicken and lamb combo over rice. ?I got the white sauce and hot sauce on the side. ?I don't know if the abundance of meat on the cart freaked me out, or the empty hot sauce, or the fact that they don't put the sauce ON for you. ?I don't know. ?All I know is that I was pretty nauseous after eating it, it was NOT as spicy as Sammy's, and it was not as tasty as Sammy's. I even waited (I hate waiting if I don't have to) for about 45 minutes just to try it! ?Now I am not going to say it was horrible because it wasn't. ?It was OK, but I didn't finish it either. If I were you, I would at least experience once just so you can say you've been there and you can compare it to others. ?It is not a bad meal, but I also haven't had a craving for halal...and with Sammy's I actually wanted halal the next week =(
i MiSS THiS PLACE SO MUCH!! i swear i crave for this like no other when im back in california!! at first when my friends took me here i didnt think much about it, and was a bit unhappy about waiting 45min in the snowing winter night for...chicken and rice?! but after we took it back to the nyu dorm and had my first bite all doubt was removed...this plate of food that came out of that cart at 2am was mind-blowing good!!!! i even took my mom there after and she loved it as well!! i would be willing to fly to ny anytime for this! and even better, its open til 4 in the morning, so its perfect for late night meals, or drunk munchies ;] be sure to get the hot sauce and drown the rice in the white yogurt sauce!! i wish i had some now =(
Over 1200 reviews averaging 4.5 stars says it all. The veggie option is a pita with rice, lettuce, and the sauces. ?The red sauce is VERY spicy!
Everytime I come to NYC... a local tells me to hit up the meat cart on 53rd and 6th. On my most recent trip to the city, my curiosity got the best of me. There are so many street meat carts! Why this one? A friend was nice enough to pick up some of this famous Chicken and Rice Plate ($6) for me for dinner on my last night in NYC. He told me that he did not have to wait at all, because he got to the cart BEFORE they open at 7:30pm. I know for a fact that if you go late at night, the lines can be about an hour long. I didn't know what to expect... from "street meat".. My plate consisted of shredded chicken, rice, pita bread, and shredded ice berg lettuce. Doesn't sound too special, but if you eat it with the yogurt sauce - it is really DELISH! They also provide this blood red hot sauce.. WAY too spicy for me! I stuck with my white yogurt sauce :) Portion wise, it is just right for 2 people.. if you're crazy hungry, you can probably finish a plate on your own. I must say, it was PRETTY good for a plate of food that comes off a cart. And if I was drunk and hungry, this would really hit the spot! No wonder the lines get super long! I have a feeling I'm going to crave this when I get back to CA. :(
Popping my Halal cherry here. All in all, good and extremely filling. A solid "thumbs up". Be advised; go easy on the hot sauce. One taste of it feels like being hit in the face with a burst of military/law enforcement grade OC spray; with lingering effects. Then again, I am a lightweight when it comes to spicy food...
i come here every time i make it into the city. i made the mistake of putting bbq sauce instead of hot sauce on my plate. i was sooo bummed out.. so a second trip was made back to the cart to have it the right way... where it burns your mouth. lol i usually get the combo (lamb and chicken) but my last visit i got just the chicken and i was super satisfied. don't be discouraged by the line guys.. it moves faster than you think. in no time you'll be devouring all the white sauce your tummy can take!
I didn't want to review this place because I didn't think another one saying how awesome it is, but this morning, I woke up craving for some street food from 53rd and 6th. Let me get straight to the point. You'd be crazy not to go here when you visit NYC. Put it this way, on our last trip to NYC, we had lunch here three times out of the 6 days we were there. That's how good it is. How I wish they'd open up a cart here in San Diego.
I had the mix of lamb and chicken with rice. It was a perfectly ok meal. The food was good. The minced lamb was flavorful, the chicken tasted like chicken. It just didn't wowed me as it may wowed other people.
If you came to new york without trying the REAL CHICKEN AND RICE you are MISSING OUT! especially after a long night at the bar/club! There are numerous Halal food stand in new york but this is the authentic one. ?There is always a line at this place ! line gets longer the later it gets! i am not sure how late this place open till but my friend said the cart comes out around dinner time and open pretty much through the night for the late crowd. ?I stayed at the Sheraton last time i was here so this cart was literally just down the street. ?Although the line is soooo long, the wait is sooo worth it! The all time famous CHICKEN and RICE is so cheap in price and so fulfilling! only $6 for a big plate! ?There are two different sauce the White sauce and a Spicy red sauce. ?Be careful with the HOT sauce because it is HOT. The chicken is cooked to perfection (sorry i am not a lamb person so never tried their lamb! but i heard is equally good). ? The chicken is put over the rice, not typical rice but rice cooked with saffron. Other than the chicken and the flavorful rice, it also comes with a little bit of shredded cabbages. ?All these are sealed in a silver container and serve to you hot and fresh!!!! ?I normally take the food back to the hotel since there's no place to sit outside and is normally chilly. ?I would recommend you share the plate with another person because it is a LARGE plate! ~ and you don't want to eat THAT much food before you sleep right?
3.5 stars. We got the chicken and gyro combo plate. you can't really go wrong. unfortunately i got indigestion from this food and I normally don't get that. It's pretty decent but I probably wouldn't give it the rave that everyone else gives it. Definitely beats out all the other halal carts in NYC, which is plentiful!!! The chicken and gyro was moist, the rice was a bit hard. The white sauce compensated for any lack of flavor and the hot sauce really packs some heat! If you happen to be in the area with a hangover, I'd recommend it.
What can I say about this big bad boy that the 800+ folks before have not already raved about? Yes it's greasy, savory, deliciousness. Yes it's a fantastic deal at around $6 for the ultimate platter. Yes the hot sauce is very hot and mystery white sauce is umm, can I have another container of white sauce please? Here's one tip I offer. Eating this past midnight is not your only option. And no you do not have to be drunk to enjoy it. I had my first 52nd and 6th experience at around 8.30 p.m. after Target Free Friday Nights at the MoMA. There was hardly a line and the food still tastes really good despite being sober. So give it a shot folks. Come early, eat dinner, and feel satisfied. Unless of course waiting in a 30 minute line is absolutely your thing.
I love my halal food carts and the 53rd and 6th cart is no exception. I usually hit up my usual cart in Union Square but if it's a late night and I want some really really good chicken and lamb over rice, this is the place you'll see me waiting on line. Some days you can go here thinking there will be no line, especially in below freezing temperatures, but don't be too positive about that! Chicken and lamb over rice swimming in white sauce, a bit of hot sauce, and maybe some barbecue sauce. Sex. As some of the 800 other reviews said, watch out for the hot sauce! The first time I went here put a lot and I was sweating bullets. For $6, you can't go wrong. If I was a visitor staying at the Hilton across the street or any of the other hotels in the area, I'd definately give this place a try. It will probably be a highlight of your trip.
$6 for a platter of chicken (or lamb or both) & rice, and some greens on the side. The white sauce is the key ingredient. The night crew is very fast which is good because the line can be ridiculously long. Definitely great to eat when trying to sober up, and I think it's good even sober! I've brought a few friends here who have never had it, and I have not met one person who doesn't think it's good.
Street Meat reigns supreme in NYC for lunch and of course late nights. ?The question still remains who serves the best tasting, quickest and safest around. ?My go to solution when in the area is Platters aka 53rdand6th.com on 53rd street and 6th ave right next to the Hilton you can't miss the line. ?There are many dicey street meat locales in the city, however this one is highly recommended. ?The inside scoop the lunch crew cooks better than the night crew (apparently they are not affiliated according to the website, however the guys from the day swear they are) the quality is probably affected by the sheer volume this cart does, the price is $5-$6 bucks and the offerings include chicken & rice, chicken rice & lamb or any combo of those your can slap together. ?When you've had a few, if you are just hungry for lunch or if you salivate like Pavlov's dog at the phrase "White sauce hot sauce boss" this is the place for you.
If you're from NY then i shouldnt have to say anything else, you dont even have to read this... But if you're not from NY, chicken and rice is a Halal chicken stand where they serve, well, chicken and rice. ?Lightly seasoned chicken all cut up served over some yellow basmati-ish rice, salad and a few slices of pita. ?It's taste ok, but once you put the secret white sauce on to it, it wakes the chicken up and the party starts! ?It's a secret combination of a special yogurt, a little mayo, maybe a touch of lime and some other stuff. ? With some suicidal hot sauce that they also have. ?It makes for the perfect meal after a night of partying. Lines can get up to 30 min long, even if its 10 degrees outside and all of the women are wearing skimpy mini skirts and men are wearing sweaty shirts. ?It's just that good, and for $6 bucks how can you complain. Head to the corner of 53rd and 6th avenue and try it out yourself, tell me when because ill go too!
Winter sun was warm. People were enjoying eating their lunch sitting everywhere on Avenue of Americas. I was on my way to MOMA and remembered this vendor review. It was 12:20pm. About 8 people in the line but moving fast. I want to thank to Yelpers. I knew exactly what to order. I had a combo. I chose chicken and lam with yellow rice. I asked for red sauce on the side but I forgot to ask for some extra white sauce (it was recommended by some in Yelp). It was bland without white sauce. Some reviewer mentioned it was mayo and, indeed, I was water down mayo. The hot sauce was super hot and totally agreed with most Yelpers. I had few bites and gave the rest to manly friend. He finished and later said "I need to take a nap".
great food, but watch your calories people. chicken and rice = 2000 calories, with lamb it shold be around 2500. ?great for after club mid-late night chow down. ?hot sauce is extremely hot for you noobs so please be advised.
Got here after a night of bar hopping and surprisingly, the line was only 15 people deep and was quicker than a $2 hooker trying to get a buck. I got the chicken/rice platter and it was time for the sauces. I was warned about the red sauce so I put a little bit into my platter and then had a quick taste. "It's not so bad," I thought to myself. So I proceeded to drench the platter in red sauce. You see, I can handle spicy foods. Or so I thought... I felt like I was in a cartoon. My mouth was set ablaze and I swear there was smoke coming out of it!!! I was running around looking for water to quell the intensity of the scolding lava sauce. Luckily somebody had water. It really didn't help. I scooped out most of the red sauce and ended up putting some white sauce into the mix to ease it up. It kind of helped. Conclusion: Their chicken and rice was amazing. Even though It was scorching my tongue I still pushed through and finished it. It's seriously crack in chicken/rice form.
A mid-afternoon doctor's appointment left me stranded and hungry in Midtown East. ?I quickly recalled the cult following that the halal cart on 53rd and 6th has, and I decided to give it a try. ?There are actually a few carts in the vicinity, so I used the trusty Yelp app to lead me to the correct one. ?Being out of my element, I further relied on the Yelp app to figure out what I am supposed to order. ?I opted for the chicken and lamb with "white sauce" and hot sauce. ? I have no idea what "white sauce" means! ?I do know that when it is paired with ground lamb, it is something fantastic. ?It's like a halal take on a traditional Shepherd's pie. ?I found that especially enjoyable, at least while the sauces last. ?Alas, there were diminishing returns when I reached untouched flecks of lamb. ?Also, the chicken was not a great choice. ?It tasted as bland as unfried American chicken always tastes. ?I guess even "white sauce" can't save that. ?Oh how I miss chicken from Africa! ? Over all I was in for $8 including my soda. ?At this price point, I was pretty impressed. ?To do it again, I would stay strictly with the lamb, and I would order more of that "white sauce". ?I was also ask them what the heck that sauce actually is too. ?Future plans, I suppose. ?Recommend.
The 53rd and 6th Halal Cart is my favorite halal cart in Manhattan for many years now. ?The chicken & rice plate is super satisfying after a night out on the town. ?Their chicken is shredded chicken. ?White sauce is great, but their red sauce is killer spicy. ?Be careful! ?You'll get burned twice if you're not careful. ? After 973 reviews, what other useful information can I add? ? This cart is only OPEN AT NIGHT from 7:30 PM - 4 AM! ?The cart that is there during the day is an IMITATION cart.., with similar clothes, so it's quite deceiving. ?It's a COMPLETELY DIFFERENT VENDOR during the DAY! Link to their website: 53rdand6th.com/index.html
My first 5 star review. Ohhh how I miss this amazing NY street meal now that I'm on the other coast. Yes, the lines suck, there are usually like 15 people waiting at 6:45pm for them to open up at 7. But guys, this is seriously worth it! I am a little embarassed to admit that I have taken the subway from Astor Place just to visit the cart... but it's just SO good and no other Halal cart compares! Get the combo platter and really really load up the white sauce. I am all about the hot sauce so I rock that out too (and yes, their red stuff is HOTTT, almost as hote as Mamoun's). The best thing to do is starve yourself for several hours to prepare for this feast - or go for a drunken late night snack so you don't worry about how much you're eating. And it's super cheap, which is a bonus. Also fun to check out if you're out in mid-town with out of towners who wanted to check out the Times Square hoopla.
awesome late night spot...over a 1000 reviews 4.5 stars...is all I got to say!
The long line speaks for itself...this little Halal cart is excellent. They only serve chicken (or lamb) on rice. Nothing more, nothing less. Make it a combo for only $6 for an entire plate of food. This sure beats those overpriced slices of pizza any day. Be warned, the red spicy sauce is REALLY spicy, so don't go crazy with it unless you like burning poo the next morning.
Can street food get any better than this? ?No. ?It can't. ?I live in LA, and every time I go to NY, I think of one thing: food. ?And eat.. is pretty much all I do there, isn't that pretty much what any sane person would do in NYC? :) ? And among all the restaurants/food places I love to revisit in Manhattan.. is this glorious, unassuming, gluttony-inducing halal cart on the corner of 53rd and 6th. Lamb, Chicken, or Combo (um.. do the combo so you can get a taste of both, please!) + Rice + White Sauce to DIE FOR.. makes this food cart.. probably the best I've had. ?:) ? And the line around the corner? ?don't be afraid! ?they're pretty fast. ?And even if they weren't.. I'd still wait for it. ?And so should you :)
The Yellow-shirts definitely serve good cart food, but I'm not as smitten as other reviewers. I usually get the chicken or chicken/lamb & rice mix. The rice is nothing particularly special, but there's nothing wrong with it. The chicken is usually alright, though it can often be a bit drier than I'd like. The yellow-shirts are not shy with the portions, including the sauces, so there's enough to feed 3 modest appetites for $6. The lines are very, very long but move fairly quickly. If you go at a bad time, you're going to be there 20 minutes or more. Overall, it's consistently good food, but there are no flavors in their dishes that are going to be jumping out at you to say "this is great". The folks I know who've tried it all agree that it's good, above-average, but you're not going to be wowed.
Normally I don't review street cart food, but I want to share an experience that I had. So my friends have been telling me about this awesome "chicken over rice" which got me curious...what's so special about this anyway? Well when I got there the line was LONG. The wait was about 30-45 minutes standing outside. Luckily, I came at a pretty good time on a Sunday night otherwise the line would be even longer. When I finally get up to the front, the guy says "next". I tell him what I wanted (chicken over rice) and proceed to give him the money. I received my food in literally 10 seconds or less and he signals at the next person already. I proceeded to eat this outside on the street which other people were also doing. So I finally get around to trying this food and it was perfect. Or at least I thought so until my friend suggested that I try the white sauce, which almost gave me a heart attack with it's awesomeness. The food lasted a good two meals...for $6 you definitely get your money's worth no question about it. If you can wait at least 30+ minutes for food, this street cart is worth it.
there were a lot of halal street carts but these guys had matching yellow t-shirts advertising their street corner address...and it did not dissappoint! we ordered one combo (lamb & chicken dnner plate) and it was enough for two to share for a midnite snack. make sure you mix in plenty of the ranch style sauce. ?it was really, really, REALLY good!
For a cart, I am amazed how good it was! The best was the chicken as I'm not a big fan of lamb. However, we did try both so the lamb was okay but pretty oily. The line was always long! There's people parked on the side of the road just to come eat at this place and some sat in their cars. While others placed their dish on the trunk as a table! They don't serve any drinks so there was another cart near by that sold drinks mainly. Cost was so cheap considering how much food they give you! All day long, they were so busy but I say the best time is real late but there's still a wait but not as long! I would say go around 11pm or later! Lines are much smaller but it's so worth it! So many people still out that late waiting in such long line for this food! Must try!
I've lived in NYC for over a year now and I'm telling you ONLY go to 53rd and 6th. I have tried th others and all their white sauce has issues. THIS IS THE BEST CHICKEN AND RICE IN THE CITY. DO NOT GO TO THE OTHERS
I got the chicken and lamb combo over rice. (I got it twice.) White sauce and extra red sauce for that spice of life. Careful now, it'll turn your nose on Make it run like the ING marathon Forget I heart NY tees. ?There should be an I heart Halal Cart tee. I'd buy one of them.
GREAT tasting, CHEAP food, BEST at anytime of the day or night! We were lucky enough to catch the Halal Cart on a semi-rainy night with NO lines. There are 2 of them directly across the street from each other but are the same company. Thank you to our un-official tour guide (friend in NYC) for guiding us to the renowned halal cart to fulfill one of our "to-do's." $5-$6 of HEAPING deliciousness!!! ?Definitely a must-eat if you are ever in NYC. The amount of food is tremendous for the price and definitely doesn't do justice to the taste. I got the combination, lamb and chicken over rice. Drizzle the hot sauce, LIGHTLY. ?The hot sauce really is HOT, a little goes a LONG way, no joke! Pour on the white sauce and mix it all together for one of the best combination's to hit your palette. We were lucky to consume Halal Cart twice on our trip and I wish I had enough time to bring some home to devour in the Bay. Beware of imposters!
LOVE LOVE LOVE !!!~ Great after clubbing when you want a late night bite to each. Or just in the city walking around at night. It's only $6.00 and its AMAZING Legit one of the best places. CATION: Do NOT put a lot of hit sauce.. its extremely spicy. HOwever the white sauce is HEAVEN Reccomend this to everyone :]
After working up an appetite, I yelped to see which stand was the best halal stand and found this one with over 1000 reviews. Most overrated restaurant ever! As much as I like white sauces, I wouldn't describe the sauce here as exciting. The other red sauce that approached with caution is just BBQ sauce. The hot red sauce is hidden in lil cups. The chicken was NOT flavorful. How can all these reviewers out there be so amazed at bland chicken with creamy /BBQ sauce?!
So I went to NY last spring and came here twice in a 4 day trip. The line was very long and I was already grumpy from being awaken from falling asleep during WAY TOO long trip to MOMA (yes museums aren't my thing). But FOOD is my thing. The guys were very hasty, trying to keep the line moving. Being my first time, I had no idea how to order. And with the guy pushing me to hurry up, I panicked! I just threw $6 at him and asked for lamb and walked away... not sure if he got my order. But oh he did. Lamb is by far WAYY better than chicken. It's succulent, juicy, and matches perfectly with the freshness of the lettuce. DO NOT POUR THE RED SAUCE! It is VERY VERY spicy. A drop or two will be fine. But the white sauce is amazing! I'm going back to NY in 2 days and planned the itinerary for this 4 day trip. Guess what we're eating 3/4 days? HALAL! I had halal-withdrawal issues so much so that I had it as my facebook profile picture! But I am excited to eat it in 2 days! WOOHOO! I took a star off because the staff was very rude. But the food is amazing! Bring $6 CASH. And it opens late and stays open until 4 AM. p.s. does anyone know if I'm able to bring this back in my luggage (of course put in tupperware)?
I love it! As far as I know it's a historically famous food cart and I can see why! Always fresh chicken and lamb with rice, lavash and two kinds of sauce: hot and white. I usually ask not to give me lettuce as it's the useless iceberg, so they give me more meat and rice instead :) The lines are sometimes big, but always fast. It costs $6 for a huge portion (usually enough for 2 people), plus a selection of fizzy drinks available. Cash only. Always friendly staff.
I went here after my friend's had completely talked up this place and it did not disappoint at all. I just absolutely loved this cart and I had it sober. I had a half and half with rice and a healthy topping of white sauce. I don't know what they put in that sauce but it is amazing. I tell every person I know who's going to NYC to definitely go to the 53rd and 6th Cart and get a half and half plate. I will definitely be going here on my next trip as well.
It was super good for $5. The line is long. ?Even tho, I work 2 blocks from this place I hardly come here. I came last week and waited 20 minutes in the cold but the food is worth it.
Every time I go to NY, this is one of the places I need to go. ?I was skeptical about their chicken and rice at first. ?After waiting 20 minutes in line, I found my crack. ?Best $6 I ever spent. ?White sauce and the hot sauce = goodness. ?I wouldn't go nuts on the hot sauce though. ?It burns... ? I wonder how much the owner of this cart makes. ?Only 5 workers and a cart. ?No need to pay rent for a building. ?The workers are also very respectable. ?Once I was drunk and forgot to get my change, one of the workers went over to me and gave me my change. ?A++ customer service.
In 4 days, we visited these guys at least 2 times, more if we could. Their food was delicious, but I'd ease up on the hot sauce (sure, i threw on enough to kill a horse, but who cares?), because when they say HOT, they mean HOTTTT!! White sauce, lay that on thick! Nothing I could say that hasn't been said before. Bottom line: TRY THIS PLACE; you'd miss it if you weren't living in NYC!
25 minutes wait was really worth it!!!! YUM YUM YUM I had a lamb rice platter with extremely spicy red sauce and it was unbelievably delicious! Too bad I was not drunk as I can only picture myself drooling all over if I came to this cart after a party or dancing at a club. Next time I will be wasted. CANT WAIT!
Walking home one night after a late dinner, we saw a line of people stretching an entire NYC block. What the heck??? They were lined up at a Halal food cart! And, there were two others within sight that had maybe two people in line...something was definitely up. ? I knew Yelp would clue me in...5 stars...the number one rated Halal cart in the entire city! Rumors were that it was the mysterious white sauce. For $6.00 you get a plate piled high with either chicken or gyro meat, rice, and a salad. After they slop it onto your paper plate, they squirt the sauce of the Gods over everything. That's it! That's enough. Another consummate New York experience...
Holy crap. I HATE waiting for food. I especially HATE waiting for food while standing outside in the elements. But this place is so very worth it. $6 and you can get chicken/lamb combo over buttery rice with some lettuce (you're gonna need it to balance out the hot sauce!) and oily pita bread. This is not a meal for the faint of heart. (Or artery-clogged of heart, either!) Add some hot sauce and some magic white sauce to complete your meal. So good!
Writing this review because I am seriously fiending for some chicken over rice. ?It's almost been a year since I've last had it and I thought I could go on not writing or thinking about it, but it skitters across my mind every now and then, but just right now, it's overwhelming. I'm not sure why it's so good because it's just chicken and rice, but I really LOVE chicken. They call me the chicken mastah! Sometimes. Anyway, like everyone has said, take heed with the red sauce, my friend slathered it on his food thinking it was going to be like siracha, but man, he was crying. He said it was soo good that he couldn't stop eating it, even while crying through the red sauce. ?The white sauce couldn't even save him, damage was done. Definitely load up on the white sauce because I got up 3 or 4 times to refill. So if you want to continuously shovel food, generously slather on the white. Gluttony rules!
For $5 its a dream come true! ?I LOVE the chicken/lamb over rice combo. ?Its so good. ?The first time I had it it was after a very late night oh I say around 4:30AM and we all know that EVERYTHING tastes good at that time. ?So I needed to give this place a try again but this time sober and when the sun is out. ?After a day of shopping I wanted something quick, cheap and good. ?Being around the area and I decided to give this another try. ?After turning the corner all I can see is the long line of ppl and the smell of grilled meat in the air. ? ? I gave them my $5 and asked for more of their white sauce on the side. ?I don't know what the white sauce is...I believe its yogurt sauce but truly its something worth putting lots of on. ?Not really much of a pita person so I'll pass on that and ask for more rice and meat with no extra charge! yippee! ?If you like it spicy ask for their red sauce on the SIDE . ?Beware.. it could kill ya! There are many of these all around the city but the one on 53rd and 6th is the BEST! ?You sometimes can see ppl filming around them. ? THE BEST BANG FOR YOUR BUCK IN NYC!!!
I LOVE, love, love, love, love, love, love it. I got a membership at MOMA just so I have an excuse to come by more often. Between visits I find myself day-dreaming about the way it smells. My girlfriend knows she needs to get her own; their chicken pita sandwich thing is something I don't wanna share. Get the hot sauce.
This is the best halal food cart I've had in New York City. Beats anything I've had in Queens or Brooklyn. The lines are ALWAYS long, and you can't beat the chicken & lamb combo platter. One night I went there around 11PM and there were about 200+ people on line, waiting to be served this magical food! WARNING WARNING: The hot sauce is HOT! Do not pour, but dot your food. Tiny little drops, yes. I learned the hard way.
Is this halal food as good as it gets in the city??? I tried it once during the summer with some friends who come out of their way to get some. It was It had like zer0 taste without the white sauce. The chicken was not in pieces really, just shredded. You'd think that with being so shredded it would absorb some flavors on that grill thing. But not really. It was dry, flavorless, boring. Thank god for white sauce. Kinda disappointing because I was expecting the best of the best, epitome of halal cart food. I mean, I've read your reviews people. But I gotta disagree. I'll try one more time this week and update.
Good and a great deal
i'd really rather not eat street-cart food, but halal is definitely one exception. i used to only get chicken over rice b/c i didnt think i'd like the lamb, but oh gawsh their lamb meat taste like meatballs! spicy halal meatballs (thats what she said -__-) my friends & i try to drive out their at least once a month.. i think its almost that time! ooh cant forget white sauce & very little hot sauce!!!
I didn't like it. ?I got the chicken and rice. ?After a few bites I wanted to throw up. ?Not my taste. ?But portions are huge for $6 so well worth it. ?Maybe i need to try this when I'm drunk.
Ok, I've been to SO many Halal carts at this point that this place is good, but not the best. ?There is ALWAYS ?line ... always. ?The only reason I keep coming back to this one is because when I have people visiting, this place is always on their list. ?So, I've been here on different days and at ALL hours of the day ... so believe me when I tell you that there will always be a line. The food is pretty much priced as every other place, but I'll tell you my pros and cons. Pros: + large portions + great hours of operation + you can put as much white & red sauce you want Cons: + long line + no other options (gyros, etc) + different line for drinks + salad gets plated with rice while they wait for your meat preference, which makes the salad warm + they don't label their sauces, which makes room for a lot of ketchup instead of hot sauce =\ + all you get is rice, salad, and meat (other places I've been to would give falafel, potatoes, and etc) In the end I am still going to come back here when I have visitors, but I wouldn't go out of my way -- there are better carts in the city.
i had no idea that this is the famous cart even though i work on the same block the cart is on . . . .but compared to all of the street meats near by... it definitely wins hands down.... for $5 freaking dollars you get a plate full of chicken & gyro meat on a bed of rice and some salad . . . then halal nazi's ask you if you want any white and hot sauce and they plop it ... bam, in and out..... for you picture snapping tourist, there's one street meat cart that is actually better than this place, its called Kwik Cart on 45th and 6th... they use REAL lamb meat...not a rotating hot dog. the price kinda shifts though.. one day is $5 and one day i was in my suit and they charged me $6 ...wth?
i almost hate to not give 5 stars here...but i think ratings should reflect changes in price too, no? ?Well, as of lunchtime yesterday, the price of a combo platter is now 20% more..which = $1 more. ?Why? why, did you have to do that? ?Is it permanent? They didn't even give a reason..just that it was snowing outside..sure, its still cheap, but it's the principal! ?nevertheless, I will of course continue eating here because it is literally outside my work, and it is still delicious.
I'm not sure I went to the right one or the one across the street, but both lines were long and for $5-6 you get a huge dish of halal rice and chicken with a really spicy delicious sauce. In California when you're drunk you get burritos / fries / fast food / pho. In New York you get sandwiches / pizza / halal food. A must do in NYC after clubbing / partying.
Amazing. There is usually a line down the block, and for good reason. never am disappointed, and is now a weekly date night stop :)
i've been wanting to try this cart since my first (and only other) visit to new york back in 2005 so you won't believe how happy i was to finally try it on my recent visit. it was literally the first thing i had in new york after getting off the plane! the line at 9pm on a wednesday night was bearable; there were maybe about 15 people in front of us but they breezed through and were off on their way in no time. my boyfriend and i shared just one mixed plate and it was enough to feed both of us! i really should have added extra white sauce because it was out of this world good! and i should have taken the heed of other yelpers about the red sauce because it was ridiculously hotter than i expected. i actually think the chicken is better than the lamb but i liked having both on my plate to savor too. i liked the cart so much that i came back two days later for more. and if we had this in san francisco... i'd come here every week if not more!
My absolute favorite place to eat at in the city. ?Very reasonable pricing for the amount they stack into the containers and very tasty. Just have a bit of a patience because the lines are long!!! ?Beware of impostors. The correct one is on the corner where the Hilton is. Definitely worth the trip and the wait.
this place is insane - insanely awesome! first off, not all street carts are created equal - you'll know this is the right one because it's the one with a line... usually, this line is *HUGE* - you have to go at night (after 7:00pm). ?they stay open until at least 4am. it's funny, they have 2 other branches on the same street (on different corners), but only this one gets the traffic. ?anyway - get the combo shawerma plate and add white sauce (and some red sauce if you can handle the crazy amount of spice). ?the white sauce rocks! ?the red sauce is crazy spicy but rocks too! ?it's $6. ?used to be $5 some years back, but it's $6 now. ?you have to buy your own soda. what else... oh yeah! ?we had some fun with the long lines - random people would come by and say, "what is everyone in line for?" - and friends would answer things like "lemonade!" beware of the people asking for money, claiming they need to eat, etc. ?i found that the best way to deal with them is this - tell them, "listen, if you meet me when i am at the beginning of the line, i will buy you a plate of food" - i've done this twice so far and both times, the guy/girl never showed up and were completely gone by the time i was at the front of the line (i would have bought them food too, but didn't want to give them money that they may use for alcohol, drugs, etc). ok, i should stop raving about this place now - it's awesome, try it out!
Call me a hater with high expectations!! I thought this place was good but definitely not to die for, very much like the Kogi Truck (in LA). It's worth trying once, but I wouldn't go out of my way in the cold to eat here. I guess given it was freezing probably made this taste better. I had the mix chicken&lamb and rice for $6 (awesome price for the amount of food). I guess my downfall was not putting enough of the white sauce. The sauce was good, but overall there wasn't anything out of the ordinary that made me go OHHHHHHMYYYYYYYGAWWWWWWD!!!!!!!
The day I was flying back to SF, I stopped by this Halal Cart at 4am, picked up 3 plates, got into a cab for JFK, pushed it through security, held it in my lap for the entire 5 hr flight, got back into a cab for home, called up some friend and ate it all for lunch. Yes...it's that f*cking good.
As far as Halal Cart goes, this is the best of the best. ?If you're going to eat at a Food cart, it doesn't make sense to go to any other place besides this. ?Because of this, there's always a long line, wait times average an hour during the evenings. Firstly, unlike many of the halal carts throughout the city, their food is clean. ?There's none of that uncleaned grill ?taste that many of them exhibit. ?Also, they pile on the food in generous proportions. ?Mounds of delicious rice and chicken and/or lamb ?with just the right amount of lettuce. ?The meat is seasoned perfectly and the lamb doesn't have that gamey taste to it. ?You won't find random falafel or fries thrown into the meal for no reason (as many carts do). Add to that, the white sauce is extremely addictive and I usually don't eat white sauce on my food. ?But this one is special and insanely good! ?In fact I usually drown the food in the stuff. ?Also, the hot sauce is just how I like it (insanely hot!) ?and you have the makings of the perfect lunch for only $6. It must be noted that during the day, a different unaffiliated cart sits on the same corner. ?The official Halal Cart is there from 7:30pm to 4:00am. ?If you want to eat the same incredibly addictive food from the same guys during the day, you'll have to go across 6th avenue on the South East corner. ?The official guys move their cart there during lunch hours for some reason, you can tell who the real guys are because they use Yellow plastic bags.
Obviously, everyone wrote everything there is to say about this goodness, but I have to put my 2 cents down too, since we are only going to be eating at the Yelp-approved places while on our short stay in the Big Apple. FYI people, the pita slathered in white sauce is actually quite delicious!!! The shredded-chunky chicken pieces over the orange tangy rice was an absolute treat for $6. BF had the lamb/chicken combo. He likes major spice, so his was covered in the red sauce, but I took a bite of a chicken with red sauce and it burned all the way down my throat. Not wanting to eliminate anymore of my tastebuds, i finished my plate sans red. Definitely awesome, even without the liquoring up first!! Yummilcious Factor = A
Their chicken and rice bowl was the BEST THING I HAD IN NEW YORK! We had the chicken and rice bowl with their bombass mayo and hot sauces, the sauces are so unique and tasty that I don't even know how to describe it. You just have to try it for yourself, and you won't be disappointed. The portion is big enough to serve me and my 2 bff's and it only costs $6. Big portion, small price, and they're out on the street corner til 4 am, I couldn't ask for more. I had it every night, for 3 nights that I was in New York, and one night it was 3:55 am and I ran 5 blocks just to make sure I get there before closing time. And, that was the last time I ran since Jr. High. But when I got there, it didn't seem like they were going to be closing anytime soon. The lines had about 100 more ppl that they still had to served. I now have dreams about eating chicken and rice bowls, and sometimes I crave for it so badly I wanna cry, knowing the only place I can get it is in NYC and I live in CA.
Served extremely quick, even though the line was long. ?Was extremely good, and most importantly it was cheap.
Delish! ?Not like it hasn't been said before. I was very lucky and did not have to wait in line. ?I literally walked right up to them. ?I imagine that made my meal even tastier. ?I also recommend just getting the lamb. ? Here's a tip: ?For those directionally challenged on where the halal cart is parked, you'll know you've got the real deal and not copycats when you see their clearly marked 53rd & 6th Halal Cart" yellow bag with red lettering.
...anyone notice most of the people giving this cart five stars are from out of town? ? The food is decent, the portions are generous, but it doesn't deserve five stars. ? The chicken is dry and tasteless, the lamb has a little more flavor but didn't blow my mind. ?What's great about it is that for $5 you can have both chicken and lamb, rice, and generous amount of white and hot sauce. ? There are a million other vendors in NYC that makes just as good if not better halal food. ?The reason why these guys do so well is because they appeal to the a particular demographic group--drunk out of towners that never had real halal food.
I never experienced anything like this before. This is definitely different and if you are not from NY, you must try it at least once! There's ALWAYS a line at this one (the one across the street next to the MOMA there's no line). They give you hella food, so share one with someone (for girls) because you won't be able to eat it all. And get either half lamb half chicken or just get the lamb, chicken wasn't that great compared to the lamb. Ooh put a lot of the white sauce and not too much of the red sauce (it will burn coming out the next day...) Oh bring water or some type of drinks, you will need it! It makes you thirsty. fyi, it's not really sanitary, the guy who was making the food was also handling money, without gloves (you're not suppose to mix money and food) but who cares if you are drunk and trying it once! (except the aftermath in the bathroom)
This is a really good meal. ?The chicken and lamb over rice is not oily or greasy and the white sauce is really good. ?Go easy on the hot sauce though because it can be crazy spicy. ? I'm a fan however something about it makes my stomach feel weird. ?Maybe it's the spice. ?Who knows! I'd still eat it.
pretty sure this is the right cart. been here several times, and needed to look out for imposters (there are a couple of near-identical carts ?all together there). besides that confusion, food is cheap and good. usually not a fan of middle eastern food, the lamb and rice is very tasty and the sauce is very good as well. been here a few times early evening and not had to wait on line.
the best there is in nyc
After a night out drinking in Midtown New York, nothing is better than some Halal chicken and rice. This infamous cart is discretely located on 6th and 53rd near a statue. What statue? I absolutely don't remember =) The plate consist of pieces of flavorful chicken, orange colored rice, strips of lettuce, and bread that seems to look like naan smothered with special white sauce and spicy red sauce. The plates are decently priced around 5-6 dollars. Great spot in the cuts, and they definitely pack on the meat. ?It was soo delicious, my friends and I ended grabbing another for lunch. p.s. the lamb and rice was great too!
Can someone PLEASE SAY OVERRATED!!!??? This Halal Cart does not deserve to average 4.5 stars. I mean seriously, this Halal stand is so overrated. People continue to go ape shit over this Halal Cart and I will tell you why they shouldn't. Food - I looked at how they were grilling the chicken and lamb. They have chicken and lamb prepared in separate containers. As I watched the man dump the lamb onto the grill, it was just plain lamb, no juice, NADA! Shit ain't even marinated for flavor and you're prolly guessing "that's why they give you white sauce and hot sauce!" WRONG!! If you hit up a real Halal Cart in Queens where there is a larger population of Islamic, Muslims, or whatever Middle Eastern country people, these guys prepare their lamb and chicken way better than the guys from 53rd and 6th. When I ordered from here, the chicken and lamb was diced into so many pieces that it looked like mush, something you would find in your Jamaican beef patty. Another thing about the lamb and chicken, there was NO FLAVOR!!!! it was dry as hell. They used no herbs or spices. It is the most bland lamb and chicken combo I have ever had. No wonder people O.D on the white sauce over here because without it, the chicken and lamb taste like trash! The rice here sucks too! It's not buttery like most places and it's just flavorless. Service - They work pretty fast here but they are very filthy people. The line here is ridiculous all day. I came here several times praying for a better experience but they keep disappointing me. I was here just last Saturday at 4am, the line was long as hell and the guys at the cart were dirty as hell. You can clearly see rice all over their work station and it was just unpleasant to look at while you're ordering. The people who rave about this place can't stop stressing how FRESH this place is, get the F outta here with that type of talk. If it is SO FRESH, then why is there a big van parked right next to the carts with containers of flavorless, non-marinated chicken and lamb??? hmmmm, yummmy isn't it? That van is parked there all day in hot and cold weather, very FRESH!!! And I highly suggest that if you do eat the salad, think about why you may have explosive shits after you have just consumed their nasty halal food. It's because many vendors are just filthy people. Has it ever crossed your mind that when these guys are preparing your lamb and chicken at home or wherever, they might not of cleaned their knife after using it to slice raw chicken and lamb when they chop the salad? Can anybody say SALMONELLA?? Verdict - SKIP IT!! This place is for tourist and people who just have a bad taste in food or people who think they have a good taste in food! Even if I was a tourist, I wouldn't wanna come here. This place use to be decent 4-5 years ago? But now they're just banking on the name of their location "53rd and 6th". That's F'N lame guys. As a New Yorker, you should really find a better Halal stand, one that provides great flavor and quality unlike this place. And if your asking me "So okay smart guy, where is a good Halal place then?" I would tell you SAMMY'S! in Queens. These guys at 53rd and 6th use no onions, no spices, no herbs, NOTHING! They are banking on your money while serving you trash! Making you think that this shit is the real deal. GET THE F OUTTA HERE with that lame shit! I hate this place. END OF STORY.
I really wonder how people know this place in the first place and I am glad that they do and even review it on Yelp. I was also referred by my friend to this specific Halal cart for (maybe) the best gyro cart in entire New York City. They might be right. My friend already told me, it was across the only Hilton Hotel in NYC, and you would recognize it by the long line they had. And indeed when I was trying to look for a place to park, this was the only place that had long line for a cart vendor. I got in line and ordered 3 lamb gyro over rice to go with sauce separate and 4 lamb gyro sandwich with hot sauce. I took home the 3 gyro over rice for my friend who ordered them cos he couldn't come with me and I ate the sandwich on the spot. One thing, it was indeed very good. The white sauce made it all better, and I love spicy food, so the hot sauce (which was really spicy and hot) gave more kick to my gyro and I loved it to the core. The line was long, but quick. The people of the cart were really nice, effective, and efficient, they were indeed pros. The price of gyro sandwich was 4$ and the gyro over rice was 6$, very cheap. The gyro was freshly cooked and because of the popularity, they were always fresh, therefore this is indeed the best place to get a gyro. It was cheap, very cheap, very good, and very excellent for a mere food cart on the street. It is the rare 5/5 rating! Wohoooo!!! It's been a while since I gave this 5 stars, so I was pretty hyped about this. This will be the only place that I would visit over and over again if I were ever to come back to NYC.
I took a trip out to NY last year and met up with a few friends. ?They told me about this place and how their chicken and rice is the best. Walking towards the cart, I could already see a line and I could smell the aroma from down the street. ?The anticipation was killing me, and luckily the line went pretty quickly, I already had high expectations but I they were exceeded once I took a bite. I can't wait until I go back to NY to get some more.
food was good, but I wasn't as impressed as everyone else seems to be. Its tasty, they give you big portions, we didn't have to stand in line long, but I didn't think it was head-and-shoulders above other halal carts I've eaten at in the city. I had chicken, my date had lamb + chicken. If I was nearby I'd stop again but I wouldn't make a special trip or go out of my way to go to this cart. Oh and they are only open at night, which was annoying as we originally wanted to stop by for supper.
must have when your in nyc. i could probably each this at least 4 times a week. order the chicago and lamb combo and make sure you put extra white sauce.
Ok... Imma just say that I'm never gonna review another Halal cart again, for if I did they would all be getting two stars. That is inless i find a REALLY bad one that deserves one. ? ? Alright so on with the review, about a year ago I heard of this place in some random youtube video that I came by. Because of such a fact I thought this place was over hyped or a legend. However since yesterday (july 11th 2010) I found this place after doing some yelp searching, so I instantly came the day after. Right after work. With all the reviews Iv'e been looking at, this place was very hyped up for me, so the only thing I could say is that this place matches the reviews 100% spot on. ? ? When I got there at about 7:10 there was already a line. (just like yelp said) When the meat started cooking up it smelled way better then other halal carts. (just like yelp) They gave you a crap load, and because I read these reviews I didn't WANT the hot sauce but some smart people put the hot sauce next to the barbecue, so I got it... AND THAT STUFF WAS FRICKEN HOT!!!!!!! OMG was that stuff HOT!!!!!! But man did the stuff taste good, and it's not like I over did the hot sauce or anything, the second i realized it was hot sauce I stopped. ? ? People just let me say this, this cart's got a line for a reason.
Do you know why I loved this cart? Because the guy cooking the food refused to serve two gangstas who had stood toward the front of the line off to the side waiting on the group of nice Asian college kids to get close enough before asking if they "wouldn't mind" letting them cut in. ? Of course the kids let the guys in...but then they were ignored and were refused service! It was awesome! Totally made my day...would have made my entire trip had I not seen Neil Patrick Harris on the L train the day before. ? The food was just as good - and the line was just as long - as we'd read both here on Yelp and elsewhere. We were there at about 8 PM on a sultry Friday night and waited about thirty minutes. What a great and eclectic group of folks on line, too. Made it fun and we didn't feel nearly as touristy. :) My husband and I shared one combo platter and it was plenty for the two of us. We loaded on the white sauce and got a tiny "to go" container of the red sauce. ?People ain't lying when they say the red sauce is hot - a dab'll do you. ?But, you do need that dab...it adds a nice kick of flavor. In a nutshell...NOM.
it should say something about this spot, that on 2 A.M. on a tuesday night this place still had a line. Insanity. if you're into spicy, this is the spot. get the Hell Sauce, as my and my friends call it, and kiss your tongue goodbye. the white sauce is great as well, i always choose the lamb over the chicken, only because it has a great taste that goes with the sauces. the chicken is just too plain. you're better off going at night, after a couple of drinks.
Truth be told, I am not an expert on halal carts. However, I can say that, drunk OR sober, this place satisfies. I live close by and have eaten here up to 4 times in one week and have never felt the mysterious 'ill effects' that people claim street carts leave them with EVER.The price, the quality, and the service are always on point. I recommend this place to every tourist I meet and they always thank me afterwards because, let's face it- if you are within twenty blocks and hungry, eating here is a true NYC ritual. Long live the 53rd and 6th halal truck!!!
The food was fantastic, be careful of the hot sauce, VERY spicy
Best value for your money in NY! ?Seriously for $6, you won't get anything better in NY as far as food is concerned. I was visiting NY a few weeks back and my cousin from Jersey texted me saying to stop by the Halal Cart off of 53rd and 6th. ?Cart? ?Huh? ?Isn't the meat kind of sketchy there? ?I usually pass on the food at these carts thinking that they weren't any good. ?I'm glad I gave this place a shot. After watching Wicked a few blocks away we walked over to 53rd and 6th. ?We see three carts, which one is it? ?I'm guessing the one with the longest line. ?Keep in mind, this is like at midnight and there's a line of about 30 people in line. ? Is it worth the wait? ?It actually went really fast. ?I didn't know how to order so I checked Yelp on my iPhone 4 to see what the popular choices were. ?Chicken and Lamb combo over rice, with some white sauce. ?Ok now I know what to order. ?I ordered it once we got to the front of the queue. ?$12 for two combos. ?I was surprised by that. ?Usually I'm paying at least $40 for me and my date. ? The food came hot and quick. ?I ordered the half lamb, half chicken over rice, heavy on the white sauce. ?I must admit it's REALLY REALLY GOOD. ?Imagine how much better it would have been if I was intoxicated? Haha ?The chicken was nice and flavorful as well as the lamb. ?Usually lamb is hit or miss for me but the one at this halal cart tasted so good. ?What set off the whole meal was the white sauce. ?It's a MUST with this meal. ? Seriously with this many reviews, you can't go wrong. ?And for $6? ?Order two and eat one for lunch tomorrow.
11pm - my first night in ny. Getting ready to go out that night. Friend of friend asks me... "OMG HAVE U HAD CHICKEN AND RICE?" --- THE FIRST mention about chicken and rice ... out of probably 1,000. The night continued. draaaaaanks 12am - omg i really want chicken and rice +2 shots 1:00am - omg i really want chicken and rice +2 moredrinks 2:00am - omfg i really really really want chicken and rice. +3 more drinks 2:30am - OMFGWTFBBQ why are we still at this lounge and NOT eating chicken and rice? Taxi our asses over there - line is like a block long... but moves pretty fast. The smell making us salivate. We finally get our platter of delicious chicken, and rice and smother it with the bomb white sauce. (the hot sauce is REALLY FUCKIN HOT) So... I guess I DO understand the obsession with chicken and rice. Its like the greatest drunk food. ever. I heard the owner paid 1 million dollars to get that spot and its busy like all the freakin time. YOU MUST EXPERIENCE THE CHICKEN AND RICE, PREFERABLY DRUNK. 'NOUGH SAID.
It's all been said, but I'll say it again. ?Chicken, Gyro, Rice, White Sauce and easy, I mean EASY on the hot sauce. ?It's a splendid mix. ?I can check this off my bucket list.
Amazing cheap food. They have four locations with the exact same food, 2 on 53rd and 6th, one on 52nd and 6th, and one on 53rd and 7th. The original cart always has the longest lines, but the other carts provide the exact same food. Just make sure you look for the Halal Guys with their yellow shirts and yellow bags. They are only open at night, 7:30pm-4:30am, so don't expect to get the real stuff during the day. The chicken can sometimes be a little dry, but their lamb is amazing. Even people who don't usually like lamb love the lamb from this cart. I always get lamb over rice, smother it in white sauce, add a dab of hot sauce, and get a bottle of water to wash it down. Their hot sauce is VERY spicy even though I'm usually pretty good at handling spicy food.
Definitely a MUST in NY. but to be fair, I didnt try any other carts with the limited time we had in Manhattan. But with the taste of this chicken/lamb combo rice platter with extra whute sauce... I dont know if I care to waste my time anywhere else. We were lucky and only had to wait 15mins at around 2am on a Saturday night. My friend found a great spot nearby to hangout and indulge in the yumminess. Its just plain torturous being back on the west coast right now craving the mouthwatering flavor of the tender chicken and lamb mixed in refreshing lettuce and fluffy rice all covered and mixed in creamy tangy white sauce!!! Best $6 spent in Manhattan.
I have never tried lamb in my life, until I ordered a lamb gyro from this cart. I'd have to say that this is the best gyro I've had in my entire life! I haven't even tasted a gyro, or lamb. It tasted like it was something holy. I had no clue lamb could be so tasty. One gyro filled me up! It tastes so much better with loads of that white sauce (don't know what it's made of and don't care) and hot sauce, if you like it spicy. For the price you pay, this can't be beat. They really need some halal carts in SF and anywhere they can in California. I'd eat this for lunch everyday if I could. I'd love to find a halal spot in the Bay Area or Sacramento on this level. Two thumbs up, bossman. This cart is the shit, keep it up.
Ahh, the Halal cart. ?As long as the line's not too long, this is the best bang for your buck in Manhattan. ?The aluminum tin filled with yellow rice, lettuce, pita, lamb and chicken (lamb tastes better). ?The cart emits an alluring smell that draws you in like a carrot in front of a donkey. ?Glaze the plate with white and red sauce and you got yourself the perfect hangover grub while you watch other drunktards share your same idea. ?Perfect harmony. It's been over a week since I've had it and not a day goes by where I don't daydream about this plate. ?Soon we will re-unite and I will indulge in this mouthwatering delicacy again.
OKAY.. I think it's definitely a drunk food thing, because the last couple times I've gotten the combo platter, I've been sober and it's been less than amazing. Sad...
EPIC! Hands down, the best late night food. At 4am, there is a line around the block for this cart. Everyone - hungry, eager - anticipating the best late night drunk food NYC has to offer. My favorite is the lamb, but sometimes I get combo, just for the diversity. I always, always, recommend extra white sauce. You can never have enough white sauce. The hot sauce, is SUPER HOT, so be advised and use sparingly. The first time I had Halal from this cart, I doused my plate with hot sauce... it was still amazingly good, but I was sweating and crying the whole time while eating it. The pita slices are so, so good. I love soaking them with sauce. The lettuce is kind of laughable, I honestly don't even know why they throw that in, it's pretty much an afterthought. If you're ever drunk, just got out of a club, hungry late at night, then just remember 53rd and 6th. Find your way here... to the mecca of late night street food.
A good, cheap late night meal that's even better as left overs the next day. ?For $5, you can get a big chicken and rice plate with pita/salad and the delicious white sauce. My husband and I shared a plate and had left overs. ?We will be coming back when in NY. Despite the long lines, these guys have a very fast & efficient system going. You'll get your food in no time. Don't mind the wait at all. Cash only! Beware of the other look alikes during the day time. These guys are only here from 7:30pm to 4:00am.
You really do see the light when you come here. This place has quite the immense fan following, and I still have thoughts and dreams about it. Fantasies really. Beautiful, juicy fantasies; covered in white sauce; red sauce, if you're dangerous. Anyways, enough of my inner hedonist coming out, I really really really love this place. The lamb and chicken combination is pipping hot when you get it. Drizzle the white and red sauce all over that (be generous, even if you think it's too much. You'll always wish you added more.) If you catch it at the right time, you can bypass the immense wait, not that you shouldn't if it's too long. This cart has got something special here. Next time I'm in town, I'm ordering 50 to last me the week.
STREET MEAT! When you are in New York, you have to go to a Halel Street Cart, or what I like to call, "Street Meat". ?And when you have "Street Meat", there's only one place that I trust, it's the very best. ?You can't trust all the Food Carts out here. I mean who knows how long the food sits out there if people aren't buying it? ?Especially in the winter. ?I'm always suspect. Everyone knows it, which is why there is a line that wraps around the corner at almost any time of day. ?It's well worth the wait. I usually get a mixed plate, rice, assorted meat with the cream and hot sauce. ?I'm Korean and can take more hot sauce than your average Joe, but beware. ?It's HOT! Fire HOT! ?You'll love it. ? Believe the Hype. ?It's the best in its class.
When my friend dropped off my fianc? & I @ our hotel, Hilton, he was excited to see that we were located right across the street from the famed Halal Cart in Manhattan. ?He and several of our New Yorker friends referred to it as the "best halal cart in the city" & every night when we returned to the hotel, regardless of how late it was, this cart had a line stretching down the block. ?Of course we had to try it but it was ALWAYS so busy. ?Our last day in NY we finally got the chance b/c, for once, there was less than 10 people in line. ?We got the lamb over rice, spicy, w/white sauce. ?After the 1st bite I was hooked. ?That spicy sauce really was spicy - no joke!!!! ?It had a huge kick but tasted so good. ?Now I know why all those people waited in that ridiculous line all hours of the day & night. ? ONLY $5 - you'd be crazy not to try!! ?Worth every penny & your time. TRUST ME. * cash only
This cart is brilliant. When there is a line that consumes all of 6th avenue, you know it is for a reason. Ask anyone around the area where is "the" halal spot, and they can point you in the right direction. This is the best food cart in New York City. 6 bucks for a platter of such quality and quantity? It's ridiculous. I adore this cart. Whenever me and my buddies are out for a night of drinking and get hungry, we always end up at the cart before heading back to our apartments. There is always good conversation around here because there is always a line, lol. I really love this cart, and the food is of the highest quality. If you could rate cart food from a 1-10 scale, this cart would be heaven. Yes, the rating skipped numbers, thats how good it is. Stumble upon this place one night, I guarantee you it will be worth it.
I had to try the famous Chicken and Rice cart that I had heard so much about. On one sunny, summer day, I knew the time was right. When I arrived at 53rd and 6th, I first had to figure out which of many trucks was the right truck. FYI, it's the truck on the southwest corner. Once I marked the spot, I walked up to the truck, asked for chicken and rice, accepted the suggested white sauce and spicy sauce, took a seat near Central Park, and dug in. Survey says? Delicious! White sauce is a must. Spicy sauce is VERY spicy, but a little dab is worth it. It's only $6 for a plate and the plate is huge! Great as a late-night snack, cheap mid-day meal, or meal on the go!
I have ate at this cart countless times. The line is sure to deter some people from waiting- but if you're smart and hungry enough you'd wait, because the line moves quick. For just $6 you get a heap of food- the portion is ridiculously big! You definitely gotta know what you're getting before you get up there because the guys at the front are fast, and I mean Fast! So they are most popular for the Combo (chicken+lamb+rice) and the straight forward chicken+rice. I've tried both, and both of them are good. All of it is fresh and hot and I have no idea how they do it so fast!
I will try not to repeat what other Yelpers said about this place but when in NYC, tis is the absolute & must place I have to go or else I will be cranky... I love SPICY food and hands down here with the HOT sauce:) I always order the lamb with rice. Also, like other Yelpers mentioned, the white sauce goes very nice with the meat, rice and the pita bread... The hype is absolutely true! It is that good! I am not a soda person but because of the HOT sauce & I always ask for more HOT sauce. I need a soda (the sweetness) to calm my palate down hahaha... I get my food and grab a place to sit on the benches to have my grub while it is fresh and hot. Btw, I've seen others literally sit on the cement sidewalks and have their grubs...
I love it! ?I'm one of those people that finds it worth my time to wait in the often sizable line for this cuisine. ?Get the lamb and chicken combo, you won't be disappointed. ?I'm back home now, but I would give almost anything to run across the street and find that food cart waiting for me. Must stop when in NYC!
Yeah amazing. So what if it's a cart and you wait in line. Six dollars for this tin foil of goodness, you don't know why it's so good, but it is. Beware of the hot sauce. I dare you to use off of it.
Best Halal food I've ever had. ?Went on a Monday around 12:30. ?The line was pretty long but got longer after we had gotten our food. ?They had a limited menu with just a few things if I remember correctly but I'm sure that's to the customer's advantage. The three of us ordered the "Combo" plate which consisted of a small side salad, a couple small pieces of pita bread, a generous sharing of tasty yellow rice(saffron?), and the most moist and tender helping of chopped chicken and lamb. ?I think that's what did it for me...how delicious the meat was. ?I have had dry chicken and lamb before but this place cooks it perfectly. The location is nice...you can sit on the sidewalk seating nearby. ?The meals will really fill you up but not so greasy or thick that you will feel bloated, in my opinion. ?I snarfed it all down and felt just find afterward. ?I love the word snarf...
So after having Biryani Cart -- I went and tried 53rd and 6th Halal just to give it an opportunity to win me back -- it did not even come near! I go for flavor which this place does not have-- perhaps this is still popular place but I think having it after a club was one reason it tasted so good, but in the middle of the day -- no way! ?It was bland and a disappointment. If you want flavor, better quality food go to Biryani Cart on 46th and 6th. ?If you want bland, plain chicken over dried out rice go here.
I had the pleasure of visiting this establishment. It was a chance encounter, I was walking down 53rd and was presently confronted with the magnificent aroma of this halal cart. I LOVE HOLE IN THE WALL EATS!!!! ?and this has to be one of my favorites. The food is so mouth watering good I can still taste the the fluffy rice and savory chicken. Man... I need to go back to NYC. I was on vacation when i discovered this place, we stayed in mid-town for 4 nights. This place is soo addicting I had it for dinner every single night!!!! NO this place is not over rated at all !!!!! ? If you have a chance to try this place out, don't hesitate. This is truly a diamond in the rough.
BEST GOOD FOR ANY NITE. After the club, before the club, lunch time. ?The only food in NY worth waiting in line for............HANDS DOWN.. ?(and yes, u will be in line )
Some say this place is over rated, some people say the other carts in the area are better but the line doesn't lie! Although if the line is too long i will walk across the street because not too many people know its the same cart, same food, you just don't have to wait an eternity for it. I LOVE this little halal cart, it ALWAYS hits the spot. I actually get the lamb, I like it better. The white sauce is AMAZING with the warm pita and I love their rice. The portion is pretty big, you won't go hungry and all for $6 you can't go wrong! O and they have Welch's grape soda which I love not that Fanta stuff.
I tried many halal foods and this one is good but a better one is the one in flushing (the chicken and halal) Madina's Halal Cart 136-54 39th Ave. New York, NY 11354 Try them both and you'll see what i am talking about
Yea - it's as good as everyone says it is. ?Whether you're ordering a Chicken Gyro or the Rice and Lamb platter, you can't go wrong at this place. ?Beware, there will be a line but it's worth the wait and they're quick. ?DO IT - you won't be sorry - it will be the best thing you've gotten for $5 in a long time.
Long line moves very fast with four guys working the cart. The platter of mixed meet on a bed of saffron rice, and salad was delicious. White and red sauces were superb additions. Warning: the hot sauce is truly hot
Still worth it! The most bang for your buck. ?Walked at least 25 blocks to wait for another 15 mins to get my combo platter. ?Man is this platter filling. ?$5 for lunch and I was so stuffed I didn't want to eat dinner.
You know Chicken and Rice is good if... - you've had it sober - you've had it drunk - you've traveled 3000 miles to stand in a long ass line - you want to drink the white sauce - all you can think about the morning of your flight is how much you want to take it on the plane with you to eat during your flight (this didn't actually happen waaaah) Oh chicken and rice...I am still thinking of you and cannot wait to be back. ?Until then...keep it saucy!
my stomach is on fire! ?i should have listen to hundreds of yelpers warning all the newbiers to be easy on the hot sauce. ?I thought to myself...how bad could it be? ?Oh man, it's still burning as I'm writing this review. I can't think of any better way to spend a $6 meal than this joint's chicken and lamb combo with rice, pita and lettus. ?The white sauce is a must and you should go easy on the hot sauce (unless you like feeling miserable). ? This combo has your proteins, carbs and vegetables so you feel like you had a balanced meal (though i'm not sure if i really want to know the nutrition facts). ?This is an unforgettable dish. ?I enjoyed every bite till the end. ?If you are visiting NYC, this is a must visit for a late night. ?If you are in NYC and you never had it, WHAT'S WRONG WITH YOU? ?Since they are open till 4AM, call up few friends and let's get moving. ? Few tips: Though the line is always long, don't be discouraged. ?It moves fairly quickly. ?Bring your own drinks since they don't sell any unless you wanna buy it from the cart 70 feet from this halal cart.
The best food in the city period. For the quality and the quantity it is unbearable. The lines can get annoying sometimes but worth the wait. only con is the lack of seating.
We were 6th in line. Yes! Lamb and rice with white sauce and a LITTLE bit of hot sauce, please. We sat down at the seats nearby and dug into our 'rice box'. ?No sharing here, baby! OMG! This hot sauce is HOT!!! Good thing, I ordered a soda with my order. Mmmmm...haven't had 'street meat' in a while. The lamb and rice really did hit the spot. Nice!
OMG...there is nothing like the smell of halal food that awakens your senses. It is life changing. I know I might be exaggerating a little bit now but OMG. There a bunch of them in the city but this is the most popular one. The combination plate is AMAZING and I am wiping away the drool as I type. I wished they had places like these in CA. The white sauce is just so perfect and with the hot sauce. Lord, have mercy. This is a college student's dream...6 dollars for protein and carbs. It is big enough that it could possibly be made into 2 meals. It really is that good.
On my last trip to NY i stayed at the nearby Sheraton, which was on the SAME EXACT block. When i told my friends i was staying there, they said "oh, ur staying rite next to chicken and rice!" "Whats chicken and rice??" i said. blank stares! I immediately felt ashamed that i never had chicken and rice on a previous trip to new york! A few hours later i found myself in a longgg line of hungover ppl waitin in line for this "chicken and rice". I was jst told that its worth it and to get plenty of white sauce. OH-EM-GEE! This was amazing. Thank god there was nothing like this in LA because i would be OBESE. One of my highlights of my last new york trip. I even ended up having it a few times. It is simply very great hangover, munchies, "i'm hungry get out of my way" food. oh yah, and its CHEAP... Thank you chicken and rice for enhancing my experience of New York City
There was no mistaking this cart. I was totally worried we'd go to the wrong one because there's halal carts on every corner. Just getting off the subway and walking to this specific cart, I saw at least 4 other carts. But this one had a long line about 20 people deep. Although the line went by in a jiffy. Not 15 minutes later we were at the front and waiting for our food. One guy takes our order and money. And there's like 3-4 other guys cooking. They make a bunch at one time and right after we paid, they dumped a fresh batch of lamb and chicken on the grill. Even though we had to wait a few extra minutes, I'm glad we got a freshly cooked portion. I opted for the combo which includes the chicken and lamb. A pile of meat is dumped over the special rice and shredded lettuce and a few pieces of pita bread. OMG they let you put on your own sauces and boy, is that awesome because the white sauce is the bomb. I'm pretty sure it has crack in it, because it is damn tasty and addictive. I got up at least two more times to get some more of it. I heard the red sauce is super hot and I'm not a huge fan of spicy so I stayed away from it. The sauce is totally what makes the dish but the meat was moist and plentiful and easy to chew and the rice had saffron (I think) in it so that was plenty flavorful. $6 for a giant plate of food = amazing deal. ?It was so much food that I was struggling to finish it but I did. So perfect for a late night meal or after you've gone out. We so need it on the west coast - I wish I could get it here in California too. Mmmm, this cart will definitely be one of my first stops when I go back to NY.
Out of all the fine places i ate in NYC, for the money this place is in a class all by itself. I ordered the gyro and it was absolutely amazing and I still fantasize about it from time to time. They have a couple of different sauces you can put on it and I tried out the hot sauce (sorry don't know the official name) and it had my mouth on fire. Usually when I put a hot sauce on anything all I can really taste is the vinegar base but this sauce really hit the spot. The gyro itself was delicious but when combined with the hot sauce it is the best I have ever had. The line was extremely long considering it was cart food but they have it down to a science and it did not take us long to get our food.
walking down 53rd i am sure you must have seen the long lines and the smell of lamb an chicken. Most of the people in this long line are tourists who have heard about this place and want to try it. but i would say its worth the wait even though its freezing cold out there. Occasionally i have this craving for eating oily food that is extremely unhealthy but tasty. this is when i go stand in this long line. luckily last time i went at 7 30 while getting back home from work i had to wait only for 20 mins to get my combo of lamb and chicken. ?Coming to the food, every bite you take is tasty as hell but do remember they have lot of oil in it and yes the infamouse white sauce which gives all the taste that people love. If you are a health freak or a neat freak i would suggest stay away. I read on good that a lamb over rice is about 2000 calories !!!!. hard to belive but its true, good taste comes with high calories. for time being i have decided to give it a go by as i am trying to get in shape ( ye ye summer is not too far).
Not much more I can say but at least I wanted a vote. Really good food, especially late at night when options are limited. The line could move a little faster- they need to figure out ways to optimize.
Big portions, yummy, affordable, quick and easy (worth the mile long line for this one so bring a book to read or ipod) haha Yes you must add tons of white sauce and go easy with the hot sauce as everyone mentioned. ?I have high tolerance for spicy goodness but it still burns your tongue while your nose drips like a faucet and eyes water with pain and joy and you flap your hands and jump around doing the chicken dance. ?Ok, so maybe not the last part, but buy a drink in advance and make it milk if don't want to do the chicken dance. I'm craving it now....mmm
The only thing that distinguishes this spot from the 10 or so other Halal Carts I eat at from time to time is that they constantly have a ridiculous line that I would never wait in. ? I have passed this place dozens of times over the years, wondering what the big deal was. ?Finally, a friend and I happened to pass by at a time there was no line (the only conditions under which I will try any of these over hyped food options - see my shake shack review). ?Unlike shake shack, which is one of the worst places I have ever eaten at, this Halal Cart was good but nothing special. ?Just to reaffirm our findings, we walked over to the Halal guy who is set up about 15-20 yards down the block from these guys on 63rd Street, and ordered the same items from him. ?Just as good. ?If anything, a bit more spice/flavor. ? Bottom line - if you think your "new york experience" won't be complete unless you eat here, I guess you got to do what you got to do. ?You will be wasting your time sitting on an unjustifiably long line for no reason. ?If you are just interested in good, reasonably priced Halal food, don't go out of your way for this. ?It is good but you will probably pass 5 carts that are just as good on your way over.
One of my favorite places to go when I visit NYC. I stumbled across this place years ago, and didn't know it was "famous." Chicken and rice with the white sauce mixed up, enjoyed in the hotel room, heaven! The pita bread (would be nice to have more pieces) is soft and yum. They look like they are doing quite well, because they now have carts on at least 2 corners! You go 53rd and 6th Halal Cart! Tip - one can feed 2 people if you can share!
Chicken over rice - my first real food in New York. I walked almost 15 blocks to get to this exact cart, even though there was another chicken over rice kart literally across the street from our hotel. Clearly, the place must be good when there's a huge line with all different sorts of people - from high school teenagers, office drones, homeless people, and college students. It's also a good first impression when the girl in front of you buys 10 chicken and rice plates. I wouldn't be surprised if she bought all 10 for herself. Nonetheless, my expectations were high and this cart definitely delivered. I should really say the white sauce was the real mailman. If you come here for anything, make sure you get the white sauce. Stay clear of the hot sauce, though. It's like the mean 'ol pitbull that prevents the mailman from delivering. Putting hot sauce on your white sauce is like getting mail that's torn up, got a crap load of dog spit, and a piece of your mailman's shorts. Nobody wants that. Stick with the white sauce. Trust me, I'm a doctor. Ok, no not really.
OVERALL RATING ?= ?9.5 / 10 Overall FOOD = 10 What I ate: ? ? Beef & Chicken over rice = 10 ? ? Pita bread = 7 ? ? ? ? SERVICE = 9 ---COMMENTS--- Went w/wife. We happened to be staying at the Hilton right across the street from the cart during our trip and we stopped by the cart every night before turning in. We stood in line for 15 minutes, grabbed our food and hot sauce, went into our hotel and ate at the bar, pairing our food with Bud Light and Screwdrivers. Good times.. APPEAL = ?10 One of the definite highlights of our NYC trip. Worth the wait. Enjoy!
It is food like this that make me wish I was in NY more often. I had to give this cart another shot. I walked over and waited for 20 - 30 min. I ordered a chicken plate with extra tahini and hot sauce (yes, finally got the hot sauce) and went back to my hotel to eat. Tasty .... the hot sauce was actually pretty hot. The pita was hit or miss. Its seriously all about the chicken and rice. Pour on the extra tahini, and mix in some hot sauce. Mm. My stomach didn't feel right in the morning though. Stil worth the wait and the stomach discomfort. Great value for $5. I wish their hours were extended though, for the after-clubbing hunger pangs.
Omgg to die forrr! Definitely always get extra white + red sauces on the side. The white sauce is amazzing. The chicken and rice together is so good. This place is a definite must if in nyc. Make your way over here! Craving some right now, can't they bring a cart over to LA?
This Halal Cart is so much more different than the others around it. Make sure you come here during opening hours - 730p-4a. So I heard that there are long lines but we only waited about 5 minutes before getting our food and chowing down. There are only two things to get, chicken and rice or lamb and rice. To be honest, I prefer the lamb more than the chicken. The gamey of the lamb seemed to have more flavor than the chicken. The white sauce was DELICIOUS when it was over the meat and rice, but beware of the hot sauce it is dangerously spicy. Stupid me thought it wasnt that bad and i squirted it all over my rice and had a difficult time eating it. I ended up scooping the top layer of hot sauce off and quicky devoured it. For $6 53rd and 6th Halal Cart is worth every penny.
the best halal cart in all of ny.. my favorite is lamb over rice with white sauce, hot sauce on the side... mmmm mmmmm something you really have to try and put in your NYC bucket list.. the line is almost always long but dont be discouraged with the wait.. its worth it in the end!
I did my research and confirmed the cart on the SE corner and SW corner at night are the same vendor so we waited 5-10 minutes instead of the long ass line. Split a combo (chicken and gyro) as a late night meal. I'm not sure if it was cause it was late or it's THAT good, but damn I devoured my half. For $6 measly dollars you get chopped chicken and gyro meat on top of yellow rice with a few leaves of lettuce, aka salad, and maybe 1/5-1/4 of a pita. ?The white sauce is creamy, kind of like ranch but that red sauce, hot damn it's spicy! Literally 4-5 drops on the plate was fine. Solid food at a great price, definitely yummy!
BOMB DIGGITY! and yes, I flew back to New York a year later after just to eat it again! Couldn't resist it any longer! But do use the hot sauce at your own discretion. I am a hot sauce enthusiast, I can handle my hot sauce. But boy, let me tell ya, this hot sauce KICKS ASS!!! I thought it's just like you typical hot sauce, so I ignored a local friend's warning and drowned my platter full of the red goodness. It kicked my ass. My face was just in full shock, ears ringing (no joke), mouth burning. I wanted to cry. BUT IT HURTS SO GOOD! The whole night I couldn't sleep. I can feel the food making its way down my stomach, through my duodenum, small intestine, then large, and it made sure I felt the fire as I pooped too. ? Maybe I went back because of the sauce, but the food itself is really good. But I swear there's crack in it, because you just want more!!!!
Epic! I would put ?Halal Cart food up against any food in NYC pound for pound. Some of my previous reviews ?I have used adjectives such as "Good as cart food." ?Nuff said.
This will be short and sweet. Good sober, AMAZING drunk. So much so, that it'll make you crave chicken and rice sober. I like lamb, but the chicken is better so I would recommend the chicken and rice plate. Lots of white sauce. Red sauce is REALY spicy so put it on little by little. Sad to say that I am drooling while I write this review all the way from California.
love their italian sausage sandwich!!!!!!!
I've been recommended to go to this exact halal cart and i did. There was only a 5 person wait when i went at it was around 6:30 pm (dinner time). I ordered the chicken and lamb over rice. ?Both proteins were delicious, but i think i liked the lamb better just because it was more tender. I love both the white and the hot sauce. ?I should have asked him for more hot sauce though cause he barely but any on mine. ?If you guys don't like spicey, the proteins are already a bit spicy so be careful with the hot sauce! DEF will come back to this place!
Best $6 bucks I've ever spent. I had the lamb and rice with extra red sauce which really helped warm things up when it was only 25 degrees outside. Got four orders to bring back to Cali but the white sauce got confiscated by the damn TSA.
This place always has a line, always. Cold, hot, dry, rainy. Not sure if the food is quality but it tastes great and it's cheap. The white sauce is amazing and the red sauce is very, very spicy. Just a great place.
my bf and i had to see what all the hype was about! there's been lines at times, and yes, we waited! but it's definitely worth it! get the chicken & lamb rice combo! you won't regret it. compared to most other halal carts, 53rd & 6th doesn't seem to be too greasy...a healthier option to say the least. believe the hype! go try it and put some hot sauce on it!!!
This is probably the most famous Halal cart in human history, so I suggest you go and try it yourself as well. Like all halal food, it is cheap! For around $5 you get a chicken with rice dish, or a lamb dish if that's your thing. I usually get the chicken with white sauce and a soda then go sit on the marble and enjoy. (Attention readers: this meal is going to be your best meal of the night after a night of drinking!) What's even better about these guys are they will still be doing business even if it's 3am in the morning or if it's pouring hail or raining a river! They will not fail you! And these guys are really nice and polite, I have had some nasty ones elsewhere but these guys are really cool. Go and try for yourself, or just look for the line. You can't miss it!
I've been to many places in NYC for food but this is the best food. ?My god, I would pay twice the price for their chicken and rice. ?In fact, I stand in the middle of winter and freeze my balls off to eat here. ?I implored my female co-worker to eat their when we was in NYC and she said "the guy selling it looked like he had a beard made of pubic hairs so I passed." ? So the trick is, ignore the foreigner dude's beard and eat the food. ?You won't regret it.
According to how many reviews this place has gotten, it is extremely overrated!! ?I didn't have to wait long (~10min) ?but the food is not that good. ?I didn't have bad service or anything, I am rating it low based on their food. ?They mass produce everything, exactly like an assembly line. ?Hence, the quality can't be that good. ?Furthermore, their lamb/beef is grounded. ?I am assuming they bought it already grounded, hence the quality of meat is sub-par. ?Every bite was like drinking cholesterol, it was that oily. ?I even tried half of my plate it with a lot of white sauce as other people have recommended, but even then, doesn't make the food taste that much better. ?If you have to try this place once, go ahead and don't expect much ?Also, I think there are other halal carts that are better than this one.
we were in ny from friday-monday. we ate here before going to bed on friday, saturday, and sunday, which means, it's pretty good post-drinking food. and yes, beware of the hot sauce! this is not your average ground black pepper spicy, nor your tapatio spicy, nor your tasbasco spicy, nor your sriracha spicy, nor your spiciest spice you have ever tried in your life! one of my friends put in too much and had to throw it away bc it was too spicy for her. another person's gf put a little too much in her bf's food and he called her an effing -----... we got one small pre-packaged hot sauce and only poured in half of it and it was still pretty damn spicy. just give it a taste before you add more! i know you don't know me, but trust me on this one! oh, and you know the cart that's across the street with a shorter line (the one diagonal to the hilton)? well, it's the same. we asked the guys working the cart at the longer line and they said it's the same, just that they were the original ones and since it was so popular, they opened the one across the street and so people thought they were impostors. we tried both carts and both were the same.
Best on-the-street foodstop, sit down and eat right there on the Avenue of the Americas. . .a total NYC experience. ?A must-try for those who have not been and must-return for those who have.
Combo over rice, with white sauce. ?A must stop when I am in New York. ? I was told to go to this particular Halal Cart, and with reason. ?I have tried others, but nothing has lived up to this one. ? Go, order, be happy.
I have eaten late night street meat when I am very, very intoxicated. ?Yesterday was my first time trying it out sober. ?I was amused by the LONG line already forming at 7 pm on the SW corner of 53rd and 6th for the night cart to begin. People, the famous halal cart has a day operation at 53rd and 6th on the SE corner too. ?Just look for the yellow bags (not yellow shirts, imposters are trying to trick you) and you'll know it's the real deal. ?For more info: midtownlunch.com/2007/11? . I have only ordered the lamb and rice platter. ?I typically get white sauce on the dish and then white sauce and hot sauce on the side. ?The only difference between my sober and drunk experience is that the hot sauce was too much for me to handle when sober. ? The white sauce is so tasty though. ?I really don't know hot to describe it. Anyway, my sober street meat experience was just as satisfying as a drunk one. ?I will say that about 20 minutes after consuming I felt slightly gross - similar to how I feel after McDonalds. ?It will pass and then you'll find yourself craving street meat ALL THE TIME. ? .
Two words - chicken & rice. That's all of what my co-worker had to say to me the last time I made a visit to New York. ?She's not a native New Yorker, an Angelino most of her life, so to hear her rave about a food truck in Manhattan kind of threw me for a loop. ?Hell, she was even willing to make the trek from Queens at 2am just to meet up here! Hands down, probably one of most economical deals you will find in Manhattan, if not entire city. ?$4 for a gyro? ?Awesome. ?I had a few bites of my co-workers', and I was wow-ed by how tasty it was. ?Probably one of best I've ever had. I stretched the wallet and went for the chicken & rice plate for $6 (also beef, lamb, or combination of each available). ?It comes with a fresh pita bread, though you can save a dollar and get it without the rice. ? I topped off my plate with some of the hot sauce and it made quite the delectable mix of tastes. ? ? This food stand could possibly end up saving your life after a night of drunken debauchery. ?The portions are huge - you'll get enough carbo loading food to take you from pass out drunk to passing field sobriety test sober. Expect a long wait in line, but it moves quick. ?Trust me, it's well worth it to savor the goodness before calling it a night. ?Next time in NY, whether it be rain, snow, sleet, or a clear warm summer evening, I will definitely be coming back!
Living in NY I've been to this cart a dozen of times. BUT lately I've noticed that they don't give lettuce anymore. If any of you haven't heard SHENDY'S HALAL CART has been bought out by the halal guys so they are "apparently" the same now. Also yes they are open at 7:30pm - 4am BUT THERE IS ?a lunch time vendor that is open on the sw or se corner (not located at the original location). and yes he is legit. We got confirmation from the guys at 7pm while they were setting up before we bought our food. Point being - halal guys are amazing, their white sauce is creamier than others, their hot sauce is super hot....but they've been cutting back on their portions. Used to be a 5 now it became 3 because of no lettuce and their sparing portions...Just expect long lines from 7:30-4 and expect smaller portions bc of the high demand.
Soooooooooooooooooooooooo good. So good. So cheap. Most crowded midtown corner at 3am on a Saturday night. Once a bunch of us got in a cab, all drunk, all craving chicken and rice but with no idea which corner it was on. Seems like every cab driver in nyc knows this place.. "oh yeah, chicken and rice!" he exclaims, and brings us right there. Hands down best way to end the night. And the food's even good sober.
A 15 minute wait, but totally worth it. The chicken, rice and salad is sooo good. Definitely get the white sauce and only ask for a small amount of hot sauce, because that stuff is HOT! I can't wait to go back!
What a screaming deal! ?We stumbled upon the cart because we were staying at the Hilton across the street. ?How lucky for us, and we ate it for 3 nights. One order can feed two semi-hungry people, but you keep eating even when you're full because it tastes so good. ?Hot sauce is h-h-h-ot and the warm pita is out of this world.
One of my favorite cheap eats in New York. ?To be honest, I cannot really tell if this cart is different during lunch versus dinner. ?Supposedly there's a switch made somewhere around 7 pm. ?Regardless, this stuff is the bomb for just $6. ?I always get the combo rice (chicken and rice) with hot sauce. ?It is not the same without it! ?Beware, the hot sauce is HOT, so ask for some on the side before you decided to have them douse your plate with more fire.
It's bad for you, you're gonna have to wait in line, and you'll probably be accosted by panhandlers while waiting. ?Still, you don't even have to ask--YES, it's worth it. ?Chicken and rice (that delish orange rice), drenched in white sauce (it's all about that sauce), and drizzled with a little bit of hot sauce. ?I feel like crap after every time eat it, but the next day I'm craving it again. ?That's addiction, baby. Tip: ?Yes, the other carts on the SE corner of 53rd and 6th and the SW corner of 53rd and 7th (the latter apparently serves lunch) are run by the same owners with the same food. ?My hubby claims the original cart has fresher food, but I think it's worth it to patronize the other carts to avoid the line.
both the chicken and lamb meat over rice with white sauce are great. ?however, there is something still better, which is iskender kebab (turkish food in europe) that i haven't seen replicated here yet. ?but at 3 AM for $5, this meal certainly satisfies. ?i added a little too much red sauce -- it is fairly hot. ?to know you have the right place and not the imitators, look for the yellow bag. ?there are 3 carts, but i stayed with the one at 53rd and 6th SW corner, line wasn't too bad. ?a persistent small line is good since makes the turnover fast which = fresher/tastier. ?these people have it down to a science to keep the line moving.
Got me like oh my god, I'm so in love. ? I found you finally, you make me want to say. ? Oh,oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh my gosh
When talking about food in New York, certain things always come up: Katz Deli, Gray's Papaya, Pastis, etc. Another one of these things is the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. Halal carts are all over the city, and when you pass them by they always have an alluring scent. When you walk past the one at 53rd and 6th, the same alluring scent is paired with an extremely long line of avid fans. For some reason, the one at this specific location has blown all others out of the water! And it's only at a specific time too! After waiting in a long line, which surprisingly went by fast, we finally got our hands on the chicken and gyro combination plates. For $6.00 a pop, these things were HUGE and extremely filling. With perfectly cooked rice, super moist meat and fresh pita, these things were delightful and delicious. They also offer BBQ sauce or a ranch-ish white sauce if you want some extra zip. Although it was delicious, I'm curious as to what makes this one so much better than all those other halal carts you see in the city...
A trip to NYC isn't complete without a trip here. Especially if you have just imbibed a few or a lot of alcoholic beverages. Always a line at this time of night. Probably the best $6 you'll spend for food at this time. I usually get the chicken and lamb combo. Unless you either have a death wish or you have a high tolerance for spicy foods, avoid the hot sauce or you'll pay for it. If not at the time, definitely later. Some white sauce and some BBQ sauce, you're plate is complete and ready to eat. I think the key part of it all is the pita bread. I always got to make sure to protect them from nearby poaching friends who have finished theirs. If the line is long at this one, go to the one across the street. I swear to you, they are the same cart.
Possibly the greatest after club/bar snack ever. The equivalent of carne asada fries or a california burrito for those of you from San Diego. The line wasn't too bad when we went. It moved quick. The chicken/gyro combo was so good. Especially when paired with the red (ketchup?) and white sauce. This is like eating a piece of heaven. One thing though. They need to mark the red sauce more clearly. My mouth was on fire after I mistook one of the red bottles for the ketchup and doused my meal with it. My mouth was on fire. Also, I think Sprite made it worse. But it was so good I wanted to keep eating.
I was on a date, and this guy (my now boyfriend!) was craving Halal. He told me about this supposed cart on 53rd & 6th that was better than all the rest ... I'll admit, I was skeptical. But let it be known, I was proven wrong!! It's worth the wait, especially for the great price and convenience. Don't forget to get lots of white sauce! I like a little red sauce in there too, but be warned ... that stuff'll get ya. Delicious, hot, and spicy! ... And I'm not just talking about my date ;)
Don't need to say much - read the other 1000+ reviews! Last time we were here - it was COLD and raining and it was close to midnight and we waited in line for over 20 minutes to get our hands on some gooooood food! Worth every minute of the wait!
I was visiting New York and it seemed like there was a Halal cart on every single corner in Manhattan. But my friend said this was the best one. The chicken and rice here was definitely good!! We ate this at 11"-
recommendation: lamb and rice (so tender and the pita bread it comes with is super fluffy) i've eaten all over manhattan on our last trip and this place was the highlight of my trip. ?it's so simple and cheap, and yet sometimes it really is the simple stuff in life that makes me the most happy. ?i'm glad that there's a long line because that just means that their stuff is fresh and hadn't been sitting there for that long. ?lingering cart food = lingering bathroom visit. ?WARNING: ?do not underestimate the white sauce. ?it looks like ranch, but it's NOT! ?you can always add a little bit, try it, and go back and add more if you need to.
Seriously, if you're planning to visit New York, you definitely have to experience the Halal Cart! There's plenty around town but this location was recommended to me by many people (not really sure what the difference is since I've only tried the food from here). Service is pretty quick and the prices are a steal! Definitely a bang for your buck! I ordered the chicken plate w/ rice and pita bread ($6) - perfect portion; white sauce poured all over (so yum); comes w/ a little salad. ?This dish makes you drool! ?I've never tried anything like it before. ?It's all about that white sauce though!! ?Everything just mixed so well. I wish we had a cart like this in SF!!
the stuff they serve here is seriously like crack. ?you know how when you eat crack for the first time, it's sorta like 'ehh... that was trippy but not life changing like everyone says it is'? ?It was like that during my first experience. ?Sure, the mixed chicken + lamb over rice was pretty good, and totally worth the 20 minute wait, but the real effect begins the next day. ?After your first bite, your body starts hunger for it in a way that cannot be fullfilled by anything else, and immediately your life is aligned to always want to satiate this urge. ?it's scary... now that i've had my first bowl, I just can't imagine life without it. ?like everyone else says, take it easy on the hot sauce, but glop on the white sauce. ?this will be my last meal, for sure.
So far this is the best street cart in the entire city! I try to hit this place at least one time every month and when my friends from out of town are visiting I drag them over there immediately without thinking it twice. All of them have had a great experience. The long line is worthwhile. I usually have the mixed plate with beef and chicken, and put both sauces in it, the hot one and the white one. It's true, if you don't like spicy sauce watch you don't put too much, it's REALLY hot, which for me is perfect, but using too much could spoil the original flavor of the ingredients. The white sauce is a well-kept secret, I don't know if I should believe it's just mayo and water as many attest. This place is a must-go in NYC, don't accept imitations! ;) Price is still good, it used to be $5 for this large amount of food, now it went up to $6. There's no service to judge on here, the halal guys barely speak to you due to the long line they need to clear in seconds, and quality overweights this fact.
This place is great! It's about as good as it gets for halal food. You get a huge serving for a really good price. I like the chicken rice plate with the white sauce and the chili sauce...yummy, but don't put too much chili or else you won't get to enjoy it at all. Every time I go to NYC I always have to stop at this cart at least once. The line is usually really long, but it goes by really fast and very worth the wait.
THE BEST DEAL EVER! Visiting NY for the first time, I heard many of my friends recommending this place. Let me tell you, its the BEST CHICKEN AND RICE EVER! The food was sooooooooooooooooooooooooo freaken good! My boyfriend and I waited in line for about 20 minutes in the rain for some chicken and rice. Its about $6 bucks! Can't go wrong there... My boyfriend was kind of disappointed because we found out about this place a day before returning back home from our vacation. The line is always super long and they open until 4AM, so from 8PM-4AM... If their out of food then they'll have one of their people run home to get more rice or chicken. I was amaze to how great the food taste consider it was from a cart but apparently, they are very famous. If you visit NY, this is a must place to go eat! You are missing out of you don't try this place!
I guess I'll be the 1100th person to tell you how awesome this freaken cart is. I was taking pictures of them like the little tourist person I was and they pulled me in for a shot. Who cares about the 50+ people waiting in line, let's smile for a picture! I heart these guys. They're so nice and they fed me well. Btw, any meat over rice with the white sauce is good. Don't worry. Be warned that after you've had your fair share....every halal cart you walk past will make you wanna hurl. I still love it.
LOVE LOVE LOVE this cart. ?No other cart or restaurant does it any better! ?Whether you're drunk or sober its the best. ?The only negative is the line that's always there no matter the time of night. ?MUST EAT HERE!
This is my all time fav, every time i go to NY i def stop by for some Chicken, lamb and Rice. I crave this food. It is cheap n yummy. The Hot sauce is HOT! It is out of this world.
Well, if you're coming from California and suffering jet lag, this is the spot to get food. ?While I wasn't super impressed by the food (lamb, rice, white sauce), I was impressed by the line at 1am. ?In all it was worth the walk over.
Definitely lives up to the hype. Delicious!! :)
It took me 3 times to eat this freakin food. ?I came here super drunk at 3am. ?The second time I was drunk again but at 4am in the rain on halloween. ?The 3rd time I came at 2am on a monday. ?Finally on the 3rd try there was no line to Time Square. ?My skinny friend who didn't want to eat with me ate all of my food back in the hotel. ?I told him to order his own but the skinny ass said it was too much. ?He ended up eating all of it. ?The hot sauce is very hot. ?They aren't joking when the call it hot sauce. ?I'll be back.
Halal cart is a must for any meat eating human! This is your best bet for late night food after going out and on your way back to your place. The entire dish is definitely a contributor to heart attacks so share with a friend and don't come here too often! The food is tasty but be ready for spicy red sauce! Grab a drink while you're at it.
Holy Smokes, over 1300 reviews for a Halal cart! ?That must mean that everybody who ate there last Wednesday yelped about it! This cart gets 3 Stars for A-OK, because that's what it is. ?A-OK. ?Just the same as virtually every one of the Halal carts that have popped up over the past few years to push out the hot dog vendors. ?(There is some truth to the notion that tourists eat at hot dog carts, New Yorkers eat at Halal stands). ?I've eaten at many of these Halal carts. ?Every now and again there is a bummer, but most of them are putting out the same gut-busting platter of food with the same flavors. So why the lines at this cart on this corner? ?Who knows. ?Part of it is that crowds attract more crowds (look at the people who wait hours in line every time Apple updates their iPhone, when the same device can be had in 10 minutes at an AT&T store). ?I'm sure a lot of it is the late hours they keep. ?Lord knows, everything tastes good when you're chowing down on it at 3 a.m. on your way home from a bender. ?Heck, I used to think Taco Bell tacos were good for exactly that reason. ?Part of it is the party atmosphere that can develop whenever enough like-minded people gather together. One of the most poorly kept secrets around is that the Halal cart directly across 6th Ave from this one is run by the same people. ?So if you want the food without the hassle, go there and you'll be eating right away. ?If you want to indulge in the social scene and wait an hour for your food, go here. ?The choice is yours.
my husband and i went here after a late musical show and we were hungry... there was a LONG line but it went pretty fast... we got our food pretty fast... we both got a chicken and rice plate... it was TONS of food for the price..i think it was about $6 each plate but the plate is worth of food for like 2 people so we ended up wasting a lot ... it was delicious nice and hot and perfectly seasoned. good taste, fast service and lots of food for a low price..the white and hot sauces were DELICIOUS and went great with the food, they have tons of bottles of other sauces on the side you can put yourself... so we went at night and it was dark and FREEEEEEEEEEZING COLD and kind of raining so the oNLy problem i had was that it was just too damn cold to enjoy any food... there was no place to sit, it was windy, ,i couldnt feel my fingers or my face and could barely see my food so it sucked and our hotel was way too far away to take it back so we stood around and ate as much as we could, i couldnt enjoy it that much cuz i was just too cold and so we ended throwing about half of it away because there was too much food, i suggest if you're not that hungry, split a plate with another person and if you're still hungry, go get another one...so that way you dont waste a lot. another side tip: the hot sauce bottle looks the same as the bbq sauce, dont get tthem mixed up like i did once!!! that was a huge mistake! lol but yes overall, its amazing! i wish they had seating though but then it wouldnt be a street cart then would it!! haha
This was the first thing we ate once we landed and luckily there wasn't a line, but it sure hit the spot for $7. The sauces are a bit overwhelming, but overall delicious. We got the combination meat with rice. Enough for two to share.
not sure if it lives up to the hype, but you cannot complain about a massive amount of delicious chicken and lamb with rice for $6. the white sauce that people are obsessed with tastes like ranch dressing to me and the hot sauce is really spicy. i've only been a couple times and never seen the huge lines of people which makes up part of this place's ambiance.
Soo good. Too bad they are only open between 7pm-5am, as I would buy it ALL day if I could. What can I say that no one else has said? Don't be an asshole. The guy in front of me was a drunk asshole and said some sh*t ?to the Halal guys and they almost didn't give him his platter. Ask for the Mixed Platter (they automatically default to chicken and lamb). Have your money ready. Best to make sure you ask for it To-Go as well, so that you can take what you don't finish with you.
Yeah, I doubted the hype. We made a special detour to the cart on our way home, even though it was long past that time of night when my mother says nothing good happens. I wasn't planning on getting anything for myself...I was just going to watch my friend eat his chicken and rice. But as I stood in line, inching closer to the warm smells and wafting smoke, I couldn't resist. The guy asked me what I was having, and after 0.25 seconds of hesitation, I was stammered "yeah, I want what he's having". Get a sample of all three condiments, but go easy on the red sauce and heavy on the white sauce. Brad's rating (out of 5): Price: 5 Food: 4 Decor: non-existent Service: 3 Wild card: Mysteriously bright yellow rice.
When I came to NY in 2009 I really wanted to come try this cart but I never got a chance. When I returned this year I was bound to make a trip to the Halal Cart. I made plans with my friend to go on my last night, but I got caught up at the convention center too long and couldn't go anymore. My friend Jennie is the best and picked up a chicken/lamb combo plate for me and brought it to the convention center. I was completely sober while eating the food and it was very delicious. As everyone on Yelp suggested, I got the white sauce and just drizzled some red sauce here and there. This was the perfect meal to cap off a 10-hour work day. When I come back to NY, I would like to wait in line and get the full Halal Cart experience, but I'm glad I at least got to try it.
I don't always travel to New York, but when I do, I prefer the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. I don't know what it is about this specific Halal Cart that makes it taste so much better than the rest. I'm no conspiracy theorist, but I think they spike their white sauce. I think I gravitate towards this place because after a long night of drinking....I always end up here. I feel comfort and peace on the northeast corner of 53rd and 6th at 5am because when I get here - I know I've made it through the night alive. I always get the combination chicken and lamb plate with heavy white sauce, and a light drizzle of the red. This is hands down the best deal in all of the tri state area. Not only does it cost 6 dollars, but counts as both fourth meal and breakfast for the next day! DOOO ITTT!!!
Hey you! Why are you still waiting in line? Coming on 53rd Street from the west side? The cart on 53rd & 7th is owned and operated by the same folks. Coming from the east side? Don't cross 6th Ave yet! The cart on MoMA's side is also run by the same folks. The truth is in the food. The white sauce, chicken, lamb, and rice, everything is the same but without the line. Check out their matching yellow bags too. Yeah, they're the same racket. Do yourself a favor and grab a platter from either of those carts instead - you've suffered enough all day already.
So I just got finished with an all expenses paid happy hour that I took full advantage of, and was strolling to the subway stop when I saw the line and knew this would hit the spot perfectly. ?I hadn't been back in a while and decided this time I would give this place a shot with a Yelp review in mind. I got the combination plate because I wanted to test out the chicken and lamb. ?It was good, but not the best street cart I've ever been to. ?I was a fan of the pita, but the chicken and lamb just didn't have the explosive flavor and awesome texture that my favorite spot has. ?One of the best options if not the best in the area, but once you venture downtown there's some real competition.
Had this for the first time the other day and contemplated how I could stuff the cart, the men and that dam white sauce in my luggage back to LA. I tried both the chicken/rice and lamb/rice but I'd have to say the lamb/rice was my FAVORITE. I ate the WHOLE thing so fast it pretty much ruined me for the rest of the day as far as consuming any other meal, but it really doesn't matter. The meat + white sauce + hot sauce is one fine combo. Must go in NY if you're visiting!
though the idea of having "chicken & rice" during non-nightlife hours while soberly looking at the tray of deliciousness scares me greatly, i have to give this particular cart 5 stars because: 1. there is no other late night grub that's better than this. none. i don't care what you say. 2. $6 for the entire tray that's delivered to you in max 10 minutes in spite of the wait? sign me up. 3. hot sauce & white sauce? enough said. 4. there is a reason why there are so many replication of this cart that opened up throughout the city, yet it's this very specific cart that never cease to amaze me with their mile-long line each and every night.
between the 2 of us, we've eaten over a hundred gyros from this place alone. everytime, and i mean EVERYTIME we get an unlimited metro daypass/weekpass, we drop by for a midnight snack --as it's only opened 7pm-4am daily and the extreme hrs are always the busiest. yes, we've waited almost 2 hrs before (when we had out-of-towners.) anyway, we eat a few there and buy a few more for the next morning. even if we have a weekpass metro card, we will go here every night especially after a night of partying. we used to get the $6 platters (hubs-chicken, me-half chicken half lamb.) but we realized that there's an equal amount of meat & lettuce in the gyro for only $4. so in one sitting, hubs will eat a couple of chicken gyros while i can barely do 1 lamb gyro. what makes the food unbelievable is the white sauce. i always get as many as i can sneak off with. although they already put some sauce into each gyro, i have to add at least a whole packet more. sometimes they run out of the small ones, and have to use 2x the size...which we still use it all up. extra sauce i have, i use it on anything and everything i can. ive used it on my own baked chicken sandwich, etc. hubs also likes to ask for BBQ sauce along with the white sauce in his chicken gyro. another tip: (esp. if you love pizza) when i reheat a gyro for breakfast, i just take of the foil and pop it into a toaster oven. as it warms, it starts to unfold. let it. i even take a fork after 5 mins or so and gently pull down the sides and break up the "rock" of lamb so that it cooks quicker and evenly. the pita gets crispy and the lamb starts to sizzle. so i take it out and drizzle a whole package of white sauce, of course = 6 stars perfection.
Friends who live in NYC tell me I have to try "THE chicken and rice cart." (Theories about authenticity abound, apparently. I was told that the one I'd been to on a different corner is "fake" and that the cart on this corner between 6am and 7pm is also "fake.") Friends who have lived in NYC speak of it with incredible nolstalgia and jealousy of those who still have easy access to chicken & rice. My opinion? It's just overhyped street meat. Low quality stuff, similar to what you get at cheap Mexican places (yes, I realize the animals were slaughtered differently). The meat is dry and gets a bit better only after you drown it in garlic yogurt sauce to mask the dryness. Comes over yellow rice (that's not very saffrony) and topped with slices of pita. Also available are the ground lamb plate and the mixed plate with both lamb and chicken. Pretty filling portion in a foil pan that can be sealed and taken home. Not bad for $6. Not bad if you're drunk. Not really worth the long lines and awkward eating while standing.
I admittedly don't review restaurants. Usually, I'm just too lazy. But when it came to the 53rd and 6th cart, I had to put in my two cents. First of all, I've been to this place many times over the past years and have noticed a downward spiral of service and food. Back in the day, this place used to be the late night mecca of tasty, cheap, plentiful food but these days it has transformed into something mediocre. Their portion size has gone way down, as has the quality of their meat. Their sauces though, are still great with the hot sauce being the hottest thing I've ever put near my mouth. If it doesn't get you going in, it will get you coming out. Overall, not worth the wait anymore.
basically i want to go back to new york for this!! ONLY THIS CART!!
Excellent for the price, excellent taste, excellent New York experience for people who have not had Halal food before. ?Put on some white sauce, a touch of hot sauce and there's no way you can't like it! ?The hot sauce is hot, but adds so much flavor that you shouldn't not put it on. ?My favorite part about this cart over any other cart is the fact you get to put on your own sauces, if more carts did that I'd be very happy! ?So stand in line, or go to the south east corner (where it's the same food and less of a line) and order yourself a lamb and rice right now!
The first time I'd ever had halal food was a few days prior to trying this one out. I thought to myself...it's alright...I doubt I'd ever have a craving for it. And it was true--until I had this. I'm not a big lamb person but the chicken/lamb combo was pretty tasty on its own...and even better with hot sauce and a bit of the white sauce. Yes, the hot sauce is hot. The lines are long but they are surprisingly efficient with taking orders/money and cooking the food. My only regret: not getting a few orders to bring back home. If you get send some my way...I'll be your friend on yelp. Please???!
1:21am $6 food run in NYC leads to: hubby: "i've never seen you scarf down that much food so fast before" and that pretty much sums it up! (side note: watch out for the red sauce, that is NOT ketchup! and it's MEGA spicy. it had all of us drinking milk while we ate)
Awesome food. Must go. I love this place. You have to go here. It's a place like Pat's Cheesesteaks in Philly. I crave it right now.
It was so good, I finally have the address of this place I went right away. And I recomend getting the lamb one w side of the spicy red sauce (it's not that spicy) and makes it better!
Skeptical at first but a believer after trying it. ?I loved the chicken/lamb mix with a moderate dose of the white sauce. ?I also had a couple shots of the hot sauce. ?Be warned that the hot sauce is no watered down Tabasco sauce. ?It's the real deal. ?This is a great anytime meal and I look forward to hitting this place up again!
I love this place. If I could, I would, go there everyday. The food is so good and the cart guys are very attentive and quick. There might be quite a line during lunch and late nights, but it's worth the wait! Cash only.
There was absolutely no line around 7pm on a frigid December Tuesday night. I got a plate of chicken and rice for $6. We took our food to the Hilton Hotel across the street, found a quiet corner and ate our food. Maybe it was the fact that we just happened to pass by and spontaneously decided to give the cart a try, but the food did live up to the hype for me!
For 6 bucks, you can't go wrong. It was freezing when I went there so there was no line. I got the lamb/chicken rice plate and a just chicken and rice plate. In retro, i should have just gotten lamb/chicken for both. The lamb isn't gamey and it's nice to alternate between flavors. Fast service, cheap, good. Nuff said. There's a guy selling cold drinks down the way and another guy selling hot drinks and coco further down on 6th
The first time I had food from this cart, it was leftovers from someone else. ?Even from that small and shoddy meal, I could tell how delicious it was. ?It wasn't until several months later that I spontaneously decided to go to the cart myself at 2am one random weekday. ?On my subway ride home I couldn't help but use the small plastic fork they gave me to eat the entire platter down to the last grain of rice. I have never eaten anything that cleanly with a plastic fork. This was in 2007. I've since eaten at the cart several times, but no meal was as good as that first meal. I don't know if the quality has since decreased, or if I just got used to it, but it's still awesome. Echoing the tips below, the red sauce is extremely hot so only add a little. Don't bother with the imitators. Somehow this cart combines the perfect proportions of iceberg lettuce (one of the few tasty applications of an otherwise bland vegetable), rice, pita bread, meat, and sauces to create a wonderful, if crude, meal.
After eating here late one night, I stumbled across the reviews on Yelp. This cart rocks! I love that you can smell the food cooking at least a block away. By the time you get to the cart, if you're not hungry then something's wrong with you. I had the beef over rice and Mrs. T had chicken over rice. The red sauce is OMG hot and will scorch anything it touches. The white, ranch-type sauce is spot on and what you want to drizzle over the meat.
Dear 53rd and 6th Halal Cart, Please move to Seattle. I dream of eating another tasty lamb gyro on a street corner in the freezing cold. I don't care if it makes a huge mess and drips all over my yoga pants. Maybe some day I will be able to experience another HUGE chicken/lamb and rice plate with delicious sauces and soft pita bread. Mmmm....... Until then, I will dream of you. Thanks for the memories. xoxo, Midge
Bland, and lots of it. It is here, underneath buildings of corporate neckties and the ever mounting paper stacks where they claim to have found the best street food your money can buy. Many have gone, writing raving reviews for this place and what not. And if you happen to agree, then you, my friend, are nothing but a brainless sheep following a blind Shepard (Bahhhh Ram Ewe) This is cheap, crap food with large portions and spicy condiments on the side. The size of the platter is flattering to be sure, but where have all the flavors gone? You call that meat? You call that rice? Blech! I could goto any dingy grocery shop and get the same same dry, tasteless rice off of their hot plate menu. 1.5 stars - for taste 2 stars - for price and portion = A low 3.5 stars Last time I let a Manhattanite recommend me where to go to find good street food. Baaaaa Ram Ewe Bah Ram Ewe To your breed, your fleece, your stock be true. Sheep be true. Bah Ram Ewe
A colleague of mine, who is a vegetarian, spied my chicken over rice the other day, and got a Homer-like drool look on his face. It's street meat good enough to tempt vegetarians. ?Enough said.
I remember my first lamb &chicken combo I had here. 'Twas on a cold Christmas morning approximately four thirty. I had been thrown into the cab among my three other friends in attempt to fill our burning,empty stomach we voluntarily suffered from all kinds of alcohol. My first bowl of chicken and lamb combo with the firing hot red and rich creamy white sauce burst my tastebuds and I refused to remain drunk for I had to be fully awake to devour the rest. I had fallen in love every since!
"SECRET WHITE SAUCE" IS THE SHH! -- youtu.be/78q8MdzkeDs "No line-up when we went. Haha, suckers! The halal cart guys package my Chicken over Rice ($6) dish to-go." -- youtu.be/WMzf5TUzmPg
This is my all-time favorite food cart in Manhattan. I love the chicken and rice platter as well as the combo chicken and lamb over rice platter. The white sauce is amazing and the hot sauce is good and hot as well. However, I think the hot sauce at their other location on 53rd and 7th (only for lunch) may be hotter. They give you so much food (rice, salad, meat) that it's incredible. There's some controversy over the location of the authentic cart. For lunch, 12pm - 7pm the Famous Halal Guys cart is on the southeast corner of 53rd and 6th. At night (7pm - 4am), the cart moves over to the southwest side of 53rd and 6th. However, during the lunch time, an impostor cart that has the southwest 53rd and 6th spot pretends to be the famous cart to lure in those not in the know and tourists. So, be sure to go to the southeast corner during lunch time and southwest corner during dinner and late night. $5 for lunch and $6 for dinner. Well worth it.
Nom nom nom. Because EVERYONE said I must go here, I thought it'd be overrated... but there really is a reason why the line is down the block at 3am. AY-MAY-ZING. nom nom nom. Chicken & rice with lots of white and bits of red (depending on your spicy tolerance). Worth the cab ride to get there. I had it both sober and drunk and I must say - the BEST drunk food I've had. It's good sober too... but you may not love it as much as I did if you only have it sober. If only we had the same kinda carts in the bay.
The line moves surprisingly quickly, and by they time you're done handing over the cash and gawking at the giant mound of chicken on the griddle, your round aluminium box of chicken and rice is ready for some serious eating. The white sauce rocks - you can always help yourself to more - but watch out, the hot sauce is lip-burning HOT!
Street food be street food, and expectations adjusted accordingly. Yet for all the hype, and line-up, this place offers absolutely nothing out of the ordinary. Others will accuse me of being an unaccultured philistine from north of the border, but so be it. My food was generously portioned and reasonably priced. But it was greasy and tasted like street food should taste like. My standards are simple: don't hype if you haven't the goods. Any other street cart with such fare may earn three stars, four just maybe. But for the unjustified hype my wrath is boundless.
Pretty much, this place had a deceivingly long line for overrated food that can be made at home. The story behind my visit to this halal (sp?) cart was I saw the line to this place and I figured a line this long should have some pretty good food. ?15 minutes later, I got my food and it wasn't as great as everyone said it was. ?I would go back to this place but if the line is too long, probably not. ?There is a special sauce (which I believe is garlic and yogurt...don't quote me on that though) that they give you along with an EXTREMELY hot sauce that gives it some flavor but pretty much that's all the flavor you're going to get. ?For this price ($6 per serving), you can feed about 2 people so it's rather affordable but if you want something tastier, try something else.
This cart has gotten so crazy popular. ?The last time I went, they put on the white and hot sauce for you. ?Now they just hand you a plate and you put the sauces on yourself and if you want it to go, you walk to the side of the cart for a lid. ?I will say that they do pack your plate very tightly so you do get your money's worth. ?There are "helper" carts around this cart too cooking and shreading chicken and lamb and brining it to the main cart which I found very comical.
Beware there are some bad carts and good carts in NYC. ? This cart is on the amazing side. ?Quick, tasty, simple, and cheap. ?Will come back here the next time I am in NYC.
Overrated. Actually, I might have given the cart 4/5 stars if I had asked to have my order loaded with white sauce. But I'm not a big fan of Mayo...and I know they put mayo in the white sauce. (Why else does it taste so delicious). I first had chicken with rice at some vendor near 23rd street and Lexington. That place offered more sides such as Corn, Green Pepper, Onions, Tomato, etc. And I thought it was delicious but probably because the OD amount of white sauce helped me in ignoring the fact that the chicken was a bit dry. Anyway, back to the famous 53rd st Cart. I ordered a Mixture of chicken and lamb, added some hot sauce, half of the container of White Sauce, and the meal was just passable. I felt like it needed some vegetables because it was too dry for me. I can't imagine eating it without the white sauce. Also, I am sure I approached the right cart. I made sure to check the bags to see that they were legit. My friend and I ordered from the SE corner of 53rd and 6th at 1:00pm that day. I wonder if the nighttime cart tastes any different.... Let me know if there is a difference. PS- I could do without the PITA bread. They're fluffy...but the only thing I could tastes from the bread is Grease... ?I'd much prefer some tomatoes and corn and onions!! :(
Never really liked eating at such place...untill i finally took the plunge and what I missed...oh those will never come back....Chicken over rice is MIND-BLOWING...club it with the white and spicy sauce....best had after few (too many) drinks... or when you plain starving....
I use to go to only go to one cart next to the Hilton until a buddy of mine told me the one across the street is exactly the same. One or the other, each of these vendors stack horrendously long lines. I know so many people that swore this item off but honestly, I don't see how that would ever be possible. Its kind of like alcohol addiction and has a tendency to pair up with these ridiculous NY nights of debauchery. I must MUST get this every time I come back to New York. For around $6-7 dollars a plate, you cannot go wrong with a piping hot aluminum plate of chicken, lamb, or both...over rice. White sauce x 3. The red sauce is hot like fire; I remember accidentally choking on it and had to take a thirty minute recess. Half a cup of chopped lettuce, a couple pieces of what I remember to be pita bread (maybe) and bam! lovely. Flavorful and cheap. The perfect kind of food to ease those cravings.
When I used to live/work close by this place was a staple in my diet. ?Compared to other Hala I've sampled across the city I think these guys really do cook up something unique. My usual get: Combo: chicken and lamb, with rice, bread, and some lettuce. ?Two containers of 'white sauce' (mayo) is enough for me. ?And eater beware, the red sauce is pure fire. Quick tips: Before 6:00 PM or so the Halal cart is on the East side of 6th Ave. serving lunch. ?You can recognize them by their aprons and yellow bags. ?In the evening another crew of guys sets up shop on the West side of 6th Ave. right in front of the fountain. For times when there are really long lines go up to the guy dishing out the finished tins and pass on $20. ?That usually did it for me, but then again he did see me on a nearly daily basis. ?If the back of the line is near the bench seats you're looking at around a 30 to 45 minute wait. During the day and night surrounding supporting carts provide cheap beverage options.
Halal Cart... This chart is delicious. I would say it's the best chart i've tried when i was in NY. I tried the half chicken, half lamb over rice - (2 thumbs up) delicious~!
Honestly, there is nothing I can say that hasn't already been said. ?Bold flavors, check; proper portioning, check; value, check!!! ? Like many reviews previous to mine, it started after stumbling out of one of the many watering holes in the greater New York area. ?This night, it was the bar inside the Ace Hotel. ?After squeezing into the cabby, and telling him "52nd and....", he automatically said, "oh, grabbing some food eh?", we knew enough was said. ?He pulled up to the corner, and directly to our right we see a line that resembled the lines for water at raves in the summer. ?People of all walks of life, huddled together, like addicts waiting for fresh needles (keep in mind, its 2am, raining, cold, and the wind makes your nose snot solidify like in Dumb and Dumber), but nothing can keep a person from their Halal lamb plate! 20mins in the cold yields one of the most perfect flavor combos one can imagine. ?Cool, mellow, tanginess from the white sauce, killer kick from the hot red sauce, and the refreshing bite of the lettuce and tomato, then the most flavorful lamb, which is cut right off the vertical spit, and the rice that ties it all together. ?Everything works in complete balance, with your palate anxiously awaiting the next bite. ?You will notice everyone around in complete silence with the only sound will be the heavy inhaling of air to cool the palate from the spicy red sauce that burns oh so good! Value, convenience, flavor, and hours of operation are totally in favor of the consumer. ?With very low expectations, this place completely blew my mind, which prompted our group to glutton ourselves with 8 of these plates over the span of the weekend! ?Highly recommended, and rightfully deserving of 5*!
I'm all hot and bothered, suffering from a glutton's existential angst. Have my tastebuds finally betrayed me? Or have I fallen prey to hype? A product of inflated expectations once again? Walking hungrily along 6th tonight after enjoying the fantastic play "A View From the Bridge", I sought to kill two birds with one stone with a visit to the famed Halal cart at 53rd and 6th. Yes, THAT cart. I've read much about the "living the lifestyle" and it's place in midtown lunch culture so a stop here was roughly equivalent to checking off K2 on my culinary things to do list. Well, almost but not really. Sorry to say New Yorkers, it was just okay in my books. Fill up my tummy it did but it stopped short of being epic or mind-blowing. The whole shebang of rice and meat is bland and tepid unless you throw a load of white sauce on top. And even the white sauce is not as wondrous as I imagined it to be, a ranch like derivative of yogurt and mayo. On the whole, this halal plate smells a lot better than it tastes. The chicken was finely shredded and bland while the lamb was savory with its crispy tender texture and pleasant array of gyro spices. Better flavored rice can be had at the 48th and Park XPL cart so no points in that department. But the hot sauce here is a winner in my books, it's fiery red and potent in flavor! I got a thrilling buzz in my ears as I chowed down on my halal plate thanks to this condiment, so use at your own risk! In sum, a plate of food here is a satisfying cheap meal and worth a visit if you're in the area. I'll be back, most likely after a celebratory night on the town. I'd like to test out the hypothesis whether being in a joyous and inebriated state leads to an enhanced appreciation for this food. Update: I'm a regular here now. 53rd and 6th and I have forged a beautiful relationship.
guy behind us asks "this is a street cart? i thought it was going to be a restaurant" it's that famous
A line a half an avenue block down and two limos rollin up at 2 in the morning about sums it up. ?Also, there is a chicken and rice cart literally across the street and down 1 block (so 3 carts within a block) and still everyone lines up for this place. ? The name of the game is chicken and rice. ?They also have lamb. ?Basically, you get a metal plate filled with chicken and/or lamb, a half a pita, lettuce and tomato, over seasoned rice. ?The portion is great. ?You get white sauce and or hot sauce. ?My suggestion for the hot sauce is to use drops because this stuff is en fuego, like burn your mama hot. ? It's so good, that I usually buy two. ?One for now and one for later.
WTF? When I heard everyone RAVE about this cart, I just thought to myself, "It's freakin cart food - how good could it possibly be?!" Boy was I blown away! So THIS is the good cart! The one near MoMA!!! I was visiting NYC in the dead of winter in January, and this Halal plate just warmed up my soul one night. The line that seems miles and miles long will explain how good this food is. Their hot sauce is oh so hot!!! Price is very good for all the delicious food you get. All of the curious people passing by asking "Is it really that good?" make it taste even MORE delicious!!! I know that this place doesn't need another review, but I just wanted to add my love for this cart. I can't wait to visit NYC again. Reading and hearing about how good this place is does no justice. You have to try it to really understand!!! That is how I came to appreciate it. Yummmm!!!!!
Get in line. While you're there, think about how a food cart can bring all New Yorkers together. ?Worry about how many hours the cooks work. ?Ignore the tourists who gawk as they walk to Applebee's in Times Square. ?Ask for extra white sauce, extra pita with your combo platter. ?Don't overdo it with the hot sauce. ?Sit next to stranger and eat like it's Night of the Living Dead. ? When someone asks you if you "if it's really that good" , say "yes" as if they asked you if you believe in human rights.
Sober or drunk. ?Gay or straight. ?Black or beige. ?Yellow or gold. ?This is where one gets one's eat on to keep one's fat on. Chicken and lamb combo over rice. ?Throw in that pita. ?You put your own white, hot, and barbecue sauce on. ?Rookies beware! ?The red sauce is a lot hotter than you think. ?Just a few dashes are enough. ?And this is coming from a kimchi loving Korean whose maternal line has a minor history of stomach ulcers. ?Don't sleep on the barbecue sauce though. ? For starters, your clothes will get all mussed up. ?For closers, it makes your whole dish so much better. ?Trust! The line really ain't that long and it's really the wait that is the secret ingredient. ?Don't cut corners and go across the street unless you a veteran and know the way. ?It's the wait, my friends, that makes it all worth your while. ?But if you find your while turning into a whine, it is rumored that the identical cart on the east side of 53rd and 6th is owned by a single halal conglomerate, sourcing the same ingredients from one origin: ?the Middle East! ?No, just kidding, Astoria. Offensive? ?Maybe. ?Delicious? ?Oh, you know it, baby.
3.5 it tastes good for street food. even if it was served in a little cafe i think i'd emjoy it too. but honestly.. everyone makes a big deal out if it. i dont really see what's so special about it.. it tastes like any other halal cart.. am i missing something?? the white sauce (aka "crack" sauce) really makes it so much better. haha. and of course my love for hot sauce really puts the final detail for a satisfying meal. it's cheap and quick-- relatively speaking without the long line.. i guess its one of those must tries if you're a tourist. :)) although i have never personally craved it.. a few of my friends always want it. but i must mention-- it's usually after a night of drinking or pre drinking. - -;;
This place is, of course, legendary. But to be honest, I've had better Halal food at other stands in the city, like by Rockefeller Ctr and K-town (and by better, I mean less "healthy", more greasy, and overall bigger taste). Best thing about this place? THE WHITE SAUCE. Great place to take tourist friends or fellow partiers after a late night.
I order the Chicken with rice. ?It also included some pita and salad. ?It's the best I ever tasted in New York City. ?The only downside is waiting a long line for it.
I ate here on Friday night after having visited 3 bars. I thought it was the BEST STREET MEAT I'VE EVER HAD. The next day I thought that being slightly inebriated might have augmented the impact this chicken plate had on me; thus, what else to do then try it again? Except this time for a 6 p.m. quick fix dinner on a Monday night. And much to my surprise, I came to the same conclusion:THIS IS THE BEST STREET MEAT I'VE EVER HAD. There are over 1,000 reviews and thousands of "white sauce/red sauce" compliments. There is nothing more for me to say.
If you've had halal, haven't had halal- whatever...TRY THIS! WHAT TO ORDER: the combo platter( chicken and lamb over rice), LOTS of white sauce, easy on the red sauce. Red sauce is REALLY spicy, even if you think you're big time with the hot sauce.. this stuff is really powerful and can make the whole meal less enjoyable if you get too much. You can sit right there by the fountain and eat .. and you will crave this halal again and again I promise you!
Worth the wait, so simple but the taste is unique. Grab extra napkins cuz your nose will be running from the spicyness, but well worth it though.
Over 1,000 reviews? Shiza. I'm not going to rave on about how good the food is and the wait and all that yadda yadda. Word of advice? Hot sauce. Holy mother is the sauce hot. Like fireballs times infinity raised to the infinite power and maybe if you split the atom in your mouth and the bomb went off, you'd understand just how flaming hot it is. Don't make the newbie mistake of underestimating the hot sauce like I did the first time around and then trying to repair it by hosing your dish with white sauce. Let my burning tongue warn you now: there ain't no amount of white sauce that can salvage your dish or your taste buds. Sure you may be Indian and proclaim that it's in your genes (as you furtively ladle yogurt into your dish and chug your mango lassi)...but trust me don't ruin your taste buds for your future progeny or ruin the deliciousness of this late night snack....off to go ice my tongue....remember: Hot sauce!
6:30pm - Hop on the subway train. 6:50pm - Walk to 53rd & 6th. 7:00pm - Stand in line. 7:10pm - Take a whiff. Smell the goodness that is Halal Cart. 7:15pm - Turn around. Notice the all the hungry people in line. All 50 of them. 7:20pm - Try not to throw a hissy fit. Only 10 minutes left! 7:30pm - Listen to the sounds of Heaven's gates opening as they start serving dinner. I don't believe I've ever seen the line with less than 20 people at a time. It's mind-blowing how much lamb and chicken these guys cook up until the wee hours of every night. For $6, this is one of the most amazing meals in all of NYC. Whether it's dinner for 2 or the need to satisfy late night cravings, it'll leave you wanting more. (I think my guy secretly hated sharing with me, even though I was full after stealing only 4-5 bites. Should have known seconds were in order...) Toss on as much yogurt and red sauce as possible - this stuff rocks! Despite my low tolerance for anything spicy, it would be impossible to leave out the red sauce. It's an extremely simply crafted dish: dump on the sauces, mix thoroughly, rip off a slice of pita bread, & get ready to get messy! Have no shame eating utensil-free. Just bring wet naps. Of course, for sanitary purposes, forks are provided if you prefer to mosey on over to the benches in front of the Hilton to devour your meal. After trying both the chicken and the lamb, lamb is the way to go! Juicy, flavorful, and hits the spot every time. I'm so hooked. Sources have confirmed that the Halal cart one block away on 52nd & 6th is the exact same establishment as this one. Same owner, same food, same prices, WAY shorter line. Just look for the bright yellow bags and cooks in bright yellow shirts/hoodies.
Overall, place was pretty good street meat. ?I've been lucky and have never had to wait more than 15 minutes for this cart, but it's usually because I go either right at 12 for lunch or randomly at 3 in the afternoon. ? This place is consistent and like all the other reviews state, the white sauce ( and the spicy sauce for all u spicy food lovers) make this dish amazing! ?The chicken is nice and tender and match well with the rice and white sauce. Just beware that u find the right chicken and rice. ?Like all other good places, this cart is often imitated. ?The easiest way to figure out if you're at the right chicken and rice is to look for the yellow bags! ?The competitors also wear yellow shirts, so look for their bags! ?Also, remember these guys switch street corners on 53rd and 6th. ?So just because the cart is on one street corner during the day, does not mean they're there at night.
This place is legit. Lots of food. I will complain however on the lack of vegetables -- more greens please! The pita bread if you get the plate is also paltry. Gimme some more of dat! But the chicken and lamb are great. Moist. The white sauce is admittedly necessary as several have noted. I dumped on the red sauce the first time I went (I'm a baller) and had to retreat to a nearby restaurant to wash my mouth out. It's srsly hot. But good. There's a fountain across the street right? Eat over there! At night!
This place is SO WORTH THE HYPE. ?For $6 you get a plate full of rice, your choice of meat (I got both chicken and lamb and was surprised to find that the LAMB ended up being my favorite of the two!), some salad, pita bread, WHITE SAUCE (must get it!!) and lots of hot sauce that is actually HOT, not your lame-ass pansy sauce. ?I went on a Friday at 1pm and only waited about 15 minutes. ?After me, however, the line started to get crazy long. ?I would wait an hour for this. ?I really would. ?Most people appeared to take the food back to work, but since I was a visitor, I sat with the pigeons on the concrete. ?Yea, that's right. ?And I'd do it again. Can't wait to go back to NY to eat it again...
Halal chicken cart, it does steal my heart The lamb and chicken combined that sh*t I won't part The white sauce is bomb, like a cool soothing balm To offset the most ridiculous spicy 5 star alarm Red sauce that you can throw on, a lil' story bout a moron My friend this is what he did Wouldn't listen like a little kid Claimed the white sauce was the spicy one And poured red sauce on a ton Safe to say he had a miserable time Spent the rest of his meal lookin' like he poured a lime Into his open eyeballs, crying, straight up comedic sublime Anyway, I can tell why people wait in queue For this most fantastic of halal comfort meals They even have a fake one that shows up in the day But don't be distracted by their matching shirts, you shouldn't be swayed After 9-pm is where the real halal cart drives Don't give in to the daytime's false halal cart lies The night cart stacks up your plate with ingredients made fresh today And at 6 bucks, it will have you fed for up to 4 days
NYC FOODAPOLOOZA STOP #11 what the eff is halal? that's exactly what i asked myself. so, i looked it up on wikipedia and in arabic it means "lawful" or "legal" and is used to designate food seen as permissible according to islamic law. it gets more specific, so click the link if this has piqued your interested. going back to the food...my traveling foodie basically had this listed at her #1 place to go back to. and, although we were sharing everything, she insisted that she had to have her own from this cart. okay...i'm good with that. little did i know that the amount of food for $6 was gigantic. so, we both got the combo (chicken & lamb) with rice, lettuce, & pita bread. the tzatziki and chili sauce were on the side for you to add to your liking. i guess the trick is to add a lot (LOT) of tzatziki and go easy on the chili (add more for as much as you can handle). so, was it out of this world good? umm...i agree it was good and would definitely be something i'd want to come upon in a drunken state, but it wasn't the best thing i ate i nyc. maybe i needed more tzatziki.
Amazing food. The hot sauce is unbelievability hot.
A friend had been hyping up this food cart leading up to my visit to NYC. ?Alas on a cold and windy December night, we braved the chill and patiently waited in line, creeping towards the delicious smell. ?We got two combo platters and with a perfect blend of white sauce and hot sauce, we chowed down. ?I must say that my experience exceeded my expectations and I truly look forward to the next time I can visit 53rd and 6th to enjoy this meal another time!
Absolutely amazing!! I love this place. There are actually 2 carts of his. One with the HUGE line and the one just across the street that never seems to have an enormous line. Their lamb is amazing and portions are great. I love their white sauce, and their hot sauce........ its hot. The cart across the street has drinks right there that you can purchase. I come all the way from Long Island just to get his food, and I always get one to go!
You haven't been to New York if you haven't stood in line for Halal on 53rd and 6th. ? Rookie tip - just order either the combo chicken and Lamb over rice or only chicken or lamb with everything on it. ?If eating on the spot, then go to the side of the cart as you are waiting for your dish to be prepared and grab the plastic bottle of the magic white sauce. ?It may be cholesterol in a bottle but it's a yogurt/ranch dressing that you squirt all over your aluminum plate and mix it all up before devouring. If you take it to your hotel like I did and could not finish it that night like I couldn't and have a room refrigerator and microwave oven like I did, don't forget to find a paper plate like I didn't before trying to heat it up in the foil plate in the microwave like I did (sparks flying) before using the glass turntable in the microwave as my platter, like I did. ? Nothing should stop you from trying this great meal from the most popular cart in NYC. ?Warning: ?You will always go back during each trip, so plan accordingly 7:30 pm - 3:00 am daily, same spot.
I love spicy food. I was drunk. The red sauce is super spicy. More spicy than I anticipated. Do the math. But in between the useless panting and milk drinking, the satisfying taste of lamb over rice and chicken over rice definitely shines through. Adding the sauce is IMPERATIVE though, as it brings the whole plate together flavor-wise. You don't eat Buffalo Wings without the sauce, right? Don't do without the sauce here either. All in all, a pretty darn good meal. Is it better than other food carts? Probably. But is it THAT much better? Probably not. Just don't expect Per Se here and you'll be fine :) 4 stars for a great drunken meal Revisit? If I'm ever in the area again late at night, sure
All I have to say is AMAZING. My favorite food of all time.
Haha what did I just do to myself?! I get to the cart and I'm all like, "can have some of that lamb? With some stuff and that white sauce?" And they're like, "well *yeah* lady" and shove a giant thing of lamb and stuff in my face and it's like, yellow rice, some pitas, and even some lettuce. And then they're like, "it's 6 dollars," and I'm like, "6 dollars? If I had a family of 4, this would be enough for all of us," but I don't have a family of 4, so I ate it myself. And I'm fairly positive at this point, heading to bed, that the mother of the small to medium-sized lamb I just ate will more than likely haunt my dreams tonight. But that is something I have come to terms with, as is the fact that the line for the cart is so worth it. The later you go, the funnier it is... but you already know that now, don't you drunky?
I didn't like this place years ago and I still don't like it. Dry chicken and lamb over bland rice does not make a good meal. Even if you pour on the white sauce. It's a good sauce but doesn't do much to dress up that bland food. The hot sauce is the only reason I would give this place 2 stars. It's hot, like burn your tongue hot. I like it. I think I'll steal a bottle the next time I'm at MOMA.
Two things make this place stand out. ?One, the lamb/rice/other stuff ratio. ?Other carts like to mix in assorted veggies into their lamb plates. ?This cart does not - straight up lamb. Baaaa. Two, their white sauce is fatty deliciousness. ?It is creamier than the watery ilk of other sub-par carts. ?With a dab of the ultra hot-sauce, each bite is trully complete. ?Only problem is the long lines, but if you can time it right you shouldnt wait for too long. ?And the wait is worth it.
when in new york, do as new yorkers do. hits the spot after a late night of drinking. although i would prefer a cali burrito from sd or a bacon-wrapped hot dog from la, chicken and rice in nyc is pretty money. generous with the white sauce and just a touch of the hot. i ate here three times during my six night trip to ny, and never had to wait longer than 15 min. avoid the weekends!
Easily the best thing smoking at 3 or 4 am -any other time would be unacceptable. If the line is too long, cross the street -same quality. I used to be afraid of the sauces but it's far better if you just go for it. Ps. The red sauce can kill but what a way to go.
Im going to make this review short and brief. This place has been reviewed over 1,000 times, just insane I mean it is a freakin street cart. Soooooo im not a big street meat fan, it can be kinda gross. However, if your going to eat street meat you should def eat it from this cart. It is the best option in the city. With that said its still street meat and it has the ability to rock your stomach. Of course I did eat a large plate of lamb at 3am after consuming way to many beers, nasty combo. Oh and the white sauce is amazing and the red is so hot and good I would love to steal a bottle of the beaute liquid substance.
Great food!! and Fast!! its a very good Cart to come visit. ?Its quick and it taste good. ?The hot sauce is on its own level so if your new to this try not to put to much on. ?Cheap and really who dosnt love cheap. ?Expect to wait long line thought.. There are 2 carts on opposite corners of the street. ?OWNED BY THE SAME GUY!!! one is usaully always shorter then the other though its the same no one ever relizes it. Expect to run into alot of drunk belligerent ppl who are in the city for the first time and are super excited. (the most annoying) Although this place is really cheap, it does feel like ?a heart stopper so id suggest going once in a while.
***** ?5 Of 5 53rd and 6th Halal Cart To most of Jersey night's life lover know, ?when we come to the city there one or two ?guys screaming for Halal food cart ?after coming back from club.and one of the best in city is 53rd and 6th. All I have to said is wait for 30 min in line worth it every moment. the waitting is get you warm up ?till that amazing mix lamp and Chicken over ?rice with white sauce hit your tummy. Awesome!!! For $6 pre person
Walked up here after a show at Radio City Music Hall. Chose this one as opposed to the 'main' one due to proximity and I cannot imagine standing in line for close to an hour for a food cart. We ordered the combo plate as everyone instructed us to. Also hit the white sauce, but due to the fact it was our first time and that everyone just calls it 'white sauce', we only put a little on or food. I mean, shouldn't someone know what the white sauce is? Anyways, the food and sauce was pretty good. ?I should have put more white sauce on, because the parts without the sauce were a bit dry, as many of the other reviews say. ?For $7, it's worth stopping by once to try it. ?You'll probably see it's tasty but nothing to write home about.
Overrated. ?At least when sober. ?Maybe this place is five stars at 3 am when one gets the munchies from partying all night. ?But I had the doner (lamb) with rice platter last night for dinner and it was okay. ?Nothing spectacular. ?Quite greasy actually. I guess it is pretty good considering it is street/truck food. ?The line moves fast so don't get intimidated by the number of people on line. ?And you can't beat $6 for dinner. ?But personally, I would rather go to my local Turkish restaurant, Kervan, and pay the extra five bucks for a much better doner platter meal.
Let's just say I am a Sophomore at NYU and I haven't tried Chicken over rice all my life until now. Yes, I know, I am sad and missing out on life. SO when my friend told me that 53rd and 6th has the BEST chicken over rice you can ever eat, I had to go to the BEST for my first experience. I mean, if they have a yelp page, they must be famous... I heard all sorts of stuff about this place. Best hot sauce, best white sauce and they are super nice. I also heard the owner of the carts is set for life, but he keeps working because he loves it. The food must be THAT good. Me and my friends got here around 11pm. It only opens after 730, but they could be open before then. I heard that bootleg ones open earlier to try to trick people, but they aren't the same. Look for the yellow umbrellas and yellow sweatshirts. Heh. They started off with one cart, and then open several in the same area. The line was pretty long when we got there, but it goes by real fast. One cart is mainly cooking the meat and the other cart is scooping and serving. Super fast! Love it. They basically start with rice, salad and pita bread then slap on the meat. You can choose combo with lamb and chicken or just chicken or just lamb. Let me warn you now. IT IS HUGE. IT CAN SERVE TWO PEOPLE. My mistake for getting one all on my own.. I ended up asking for a cover to take it home. I believe I had more than half left. After they give you your order, you move on over to the sauces. You load up as much as you want. They also have little to-go premade sauces cups. The yellow to-go bags are also their symbol. Watch out for the hot sauce. WARNING, WARNING. Seriously if you like spicy don't go crazy. You will regret it if you do. Put a little, then try it, they add more if you want. Just WATCH out... There are many places to sit outside. Make sure you go on a nice night. Rain or snow might make you just take it togo. But if it's a nice night out there are a lot of seats. You can't miss finding the carts because there are so many people surrounding it and eating. It's in front of a huge building that has this outdoor seating area. It's not a great place to take a date, but great place to eat with friends or if you have been dating a while. HA! It's 6 dollars a plate. So worth EVERY penny. YUM YUM. Writing this review makes me want to go back. I just might! MUST TRY. MUST TRY. MUST TRY!
I would give this place 5 stars but as my cousin later pointed out, the food cart doesn't have a sink. ?This isn't a big deal right? ?Except that means the dude didn't wash his hands. ?Adds flavor I guess. In a nutshell: I was really hungry It was late at night I was sort of drunk I ordered half lamb half chicken I ate the whole thing It was delicious and I didn't realize it was some sort of accomplishment to clean the tin and scarf the whole thing. I don't think I would do it again but I'm glad I did it once. ?That's what she said!
When you need cheap, late night eats, this popular street cart is the way to go. After stepping off the plane following a long cross country flight, my lady and I needed food. And fast. My friend suggested the Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th. It was relatively close by and considering it was almost midnight, there weren't many other choices out there besides pizza. A quick subway ride and some power walking later, we found the cart with a line of 6 ppl waiting for the same good eats. We were warned by my friend beforehand to order only one since there was a lot of food. Chicken over rice it was. Minus $6 later, my lady and I were chowing down the contents of the aluminum container. And boy did they give us a lot of food to chow down. The chicken was hot and tender, the lettuce was fresh and crisp, and the rice was firm and flavorful. Flatbread was a bit dry but that's just nitpicking. For the price, it definitely filled us up. I even ordered a lamb over rice to eat later on. Beware the hot sauce has a powerful kick. Like a mule kick to your oral cavity. The white sauce helps mellow that down though. So it recap, it's cheap, plentiful, filling, and oh-so-good. Make sure to get it. Your stomach will thank you.
By far, the best chicken and lamb halal stand in nyc. Whoever says otherwise please give me the name and location of the other stand because I would love to try it. Their white sauce is incredibly tasty but too bad it's practically heart clogging. The rice tastes good with one cup but two cups of that sauce and it's out of this world. Oh! And be careful of the hot sauce. I am still trying to figure out what it's made of, possibly habanero? But It's like eating lava so don't go crazy on it, and I'm saying it as someone who can eat spicy food. For $6, you must try this place! There's always a line but it's worth the wait :)
The best chicken and rice - Period! With spicy red sauce and white sauce and warm Pita.. Just thinking about it is making my mouth water... I sometimes get cravings for this dish and in the past have driven to NYC just for this :) It's the place worth driving for!!
This was the fitting end to our night of grey goose shots. Stood in line for about 20 minutes and then ate the most delicious serving of chicken, rice , lettuce, pita bread, and white sauce known to man. For $6 you can eat twice or share it between 2 people. I ate the entire thing since I don't know when i'll be in NY again. Don't be fooled by the dopplegangers, across the street. Look for the yellow sweatshirts. White Sauce!
Two words: Red Sauce. ?Husband and I have never had such hot, hot, hot sauce in our combined lifetimes. ?We only dipped a tiny little sliver on our forks and we were choking for about a minute and Husband was dripping with sweat after finishing the whole plate (we used the whole mini-tub of red sauce). ?For $6, this is the best meal we've had in NY (we got the combination w/ rice and pita). ?I was kind of worried when I saw the long line in front of the cart, but it moved extremely fast. We had passed by what I assumed to be the "fake" Halal Cart on our way back to our hotel and that guy had no line. ?I felt kind of sorry for him, but if you put your fake cart right next to the real cart, I guess you're asking for it.
Good thing we were with a native New Yorker when he took us here after the bar else we would have taken years to get here amongst all the other carts in NY! I must say. At $6 a plate for chicken over rice, you are getting a feast! It's enough to fee 2 people and still have some left over! Although the rice was a little dry, the chicken on top with the red sauce and some of the white sauce and you have heaven on a little plate in your hands! Omgggg soooo good. I definitely wished we had places like that here on the West Coast. Caution: The red sauce is pretty spicy! But the white sauce is a definite must get at least 2 or 3!
Finally got to try the infamous Halal Cart on my trip to NYC this past week!! YAYYY!! Finding this place was as easy as finding the long lines (And it is right next to a statue)!! My friends were almost fooled by HalalGuys on the other side of the street but I knew that this place didn't even have a name - hence the name simply from its location. Anywho, got the chicken and lamb over rice. YUM. You can put as much white sauce and hot sauce and BBQ sauce as you like!! And that hot sauce is HOT. I LOVE spicy but this stuff is LETHAL. My tongue was on fire!! I loved the rice and the pita bread. They give you a really good portion for $6 and I had enough for a yummy leftover b-fast the next day. Haha. Overall, its yummy in my tummy and i am DEFINITELY coming back here next time I visit! Note: Came here again (Afternoon time) and they don't let you put on your own sauces...Boo, just ask for more sauce and stuff...I guess night time is so busy that they just leave all the sauces out for everyone to hoard around! :P
NOTHING compares to this place. My friend and I had this in the rain after a 4 hour long baseball game (rain delayed) at 2 in the morning; even with this, the food alone would have given it the 5 stars. ?If I could I would have given this place 6 stars for it's extremely cheap prices. ?I wish we had something like this in the San Francisco bay area. ?I would be standing in line all night to have their tasty food. ? I had the lamb and chicken combo...with lots of hot sauce (make sure you can handle spice because their hot sauce is extremely hot) and yogurt sauce. ?It was so good, I bought 4 plates to bring back home for family and friends.
NE, NW - they're pretty indistinguishable. Try the BBQ sauce instead of the hot sauce.
My BF took me here after a long night of boozing for the first time after 3 short weeks of dating. ?Me stumbling and him yapping about some mad good halal cart food... the entire time I was thinking, "What the eff... CART FOOD? ?He didn't just go cheap on me after 3 weeks." ? The instant I saw the long line stretching half way down the block with patient and loyal customers of all ages, size, and ethnicity, my feet instantly stopped hurting, a huge big smile formed from ear to ear. ?I desperately wanted to be member of this cart food society. ?The BF is da man!! ?I'll bend over backwards for "Chicken over rice, lots of white sauce, easy on the red." ?Like he said, "Panty droppers, for sure." ? ps: If the red sauce is not enough for you, go to the side, they have more condiments for you to squirt, slather, or whatever your heart desires... pour that crack on!
I want to say this place is fantastic even without being inebriated, so yes I will say it. This place is fantastic even without being inebriated. Go with the half lamb half chicken if it's your first time, then when you inevitably go again you can just get the one you like (or both!) Personally I like the lamb more but give both a shot.
53rd and 6th has been one of New York's Famous stops. i've been going to this place now for the last 6 years. its not to die for or something you have to try before you die :-P. its very cheap and you get your money`s worth! the food is very tasty and you must try the while sauce on anything. I sometimes take it home and use it on other things ( confessions ) the line could extended forever and that's why there is another on the other side of the street. its the same exact thing. Bottom line : its definitely one place i miss since i moved to California
Dear Halal Cart, You and me were meant to be. I cheated on pescetarianism for you but I don't regret it one bit. There's nothing like you here in California. I went to Quick Kebab but their white sauce was not the same. Not to mention their red sauce was not hot. I miss the rice and chicken and cabbage and loads of sauce I poured all over you. So juicy and delicious you are. We'll meet again. Until then I refuse to cheat on you with any other Halal spot. Love you. Lisa
I will eat this for breakfast lunch and dinner. I don't care how fat and gross I'll feel afterwards, it is the best thing that I've ever tasted from a street cart for that price. Someone tell me why I've only tried this now after so many countless visits to NY? I was so blind...but now I am found... By the way, get the lamb and chicken combo with the heavenly white sauce. 6 bucks. You won't regret it...well, maybe in the morning.
Let me put it out there: chicken and rice plate with the white sauce. ?I don't know how it could GET better. ?It's a true ny establishment. ?You can't go wrong with this food.
I don't know what it is about this cart. It has long lines all day long. The chicken and rice seem okay. The same as the other three carts nearby but for some reason this one has the most people on line.
This is so damn good street food! for $6.00 bucks you can get a meal for lunch and can finish it off for dinner: it's a lot of bang for your buck! I got the chicken and lamb combo with rice. Served with lettuce and pita bread. I drizzled the white sauce (creamy), brown sauce (sweet), and sparsely used the red sauce (SUPER HOT/SPICY). Halal cart, I will always remember you.
Wow so many reviews! I've been here plenty of nights, sometimes sober, sometimes drunk. IT ALWAYS TASTES BETTER DRUNK. I don't know why I was here when I was sober, because then I notice that the guys (like the one with the long beard) don't wear gloves and probably sweat all over the food. Not a bad spot for a late-night run. Oh and the one across the street is the same thing, so yeah shorter line!
ahh the 53rd Street halal cart... One lamb over rice with white sauce please! hot hot HOT sauce on the side please =) This place rocks, as long as you can stand the line. It's well worth it and easy on the pocket. I've been to this cart several times. A good go-to spot during midtown lunch... or late night just-got-out-from-partying-and-need-substantial-?good-food-at-3am kind of place. Been here several times (at several different times) and it's always filled this belly up. Street meat... you're A-OK!
my friends and i sometimes drive the forty minutes from long island just to eat some chicken and rice and then go home...Agree with Marc G., don't put tooo much hot sauce, you'll regret it! ?Have to figure out the correct ratio of white sauce to hot sauce, I think I've got it down by now! ?MMMMMMMMMMM...so good, order double meat, lamb and chicken combo, thats the legit order.
By far THE best chicken and rice cart in Manhattan. Huge portion of food for only $6. It's easy to spot at 3am because it's the only cart with a line going down the entire block at that time of night. And yes, it is THAT good.
Best cart food I have ever had. You get rice, salad, and either all chicken, all lamb, or half and half in one huge plate. Gotta find the right mixture of spicy sauce and white sauce then you will be in heaven. A huge amount of ?food for only $6. Just don't add too much spicy sauce or your stomach will regret it =)
In my honest opinion, I don't know why this place is so famous. It tastes similar to all the other halal carts in NYC, except the sauce is a little different and the containers are round. But... I like it! I walk all the way there from Times square after work about once every 2 weeks and pass by tons of halal carts that have empty lines. Then when I hit 53rd st, see one with a really really long line. That's a big plus - because something about them is right that I can't quite figure out. The food comes in a large round container for $6. It comes w/pita and chicken and lamb (if you get the mix). Definitely a huge meal. Don't forget the sauce because I think the sauce makes a big difference in how your food tastes. They do a good job of differentiating themselves from other halal carts (their bags literally say "we're different"). They are. If you're a food cart lover - gotta try it out. The line is actually fast, and the food is great. Something about nice cheap food makes you happy.
I've gone here a couple of times after heavy drinking at 3am. ?I ordered both the lamb and rice, and chicken and rice. ?Both are awesome, good quality and good drunk food. If you want spicy, they have a sauce that'll burn your lips off and give you heartburn the entire next day. ?Trust me. ?It's one of the best Halal Carts i've been too but there are other ones around that compare. Get ready for looooong lines!
I use to work blocks away from the cart and I really miss it. Couple of days ago I walked for 15 min just to get to eat it for lunch.. Yes you can say that I am obsessed. Putting the calorie content aside, this is freaking amazing meat. I've never had the chicken but the lamb is always good. For junk food, I search for consistency, and this place is very consistent. White sauce paired with a bit of hot sauce (they are really hot and i LOVE spice food, they are a 4/5 hot for me) The rice is a nice break from the meat and the sauce. Great drunk munchies. This is the kind of food that apparently people would literally "kill" for if you jump someones spot int he line. The wait is a bit long sometimes, especially in the evening. Try to go around 11:45 before the lunch crowd.
Good things come to those who wait - at least here. Yes, the line snakes along 53rd, but those in line know a good thing when they taste it. Their chicken and lamb platter is a delicious car accident of ingredients. It comes with a teeny salad, a pita, and some rice. Wish I had more rice, but the focus is on the meat: the chicken was decent, but the lamb, oh, the lamb. It's tasty, moist, tender, lovely. Throw in a wicked killer hot sauce - that red sauce is no joke - and a calming white sauce*, and you've got yourself a winner. Considering their reasonable prices (a platter goes for $6), I could eat here everyday. Heck, I bet their food tastes even better if you're inebriated. * You have no idea how hard it was to resist making a dirty joke.
Expect 30-45mins wait if you come here during Friday night or Saturday. Its at the SouthWest corner of 53rd and 6th, but I think the SouthEast corner serves the exact food as well, and theres almost no line. I think they are even owned by the same guys since I see some guy working in the back going back and forward between the two carts. The meat itself is not that great but if you put white sauce and the right amount of hot sauce (VERY HOT) on top it can be pretty orgasmic. This is the best late night drunk food, better than any garbage plates I've had while I was back in college, and I had pretty low standards back then.
Mmm a $6 meal in midtown NYC? I'm so there. The line looks kind of crazy when you get there - but it moves really fast! I'm a huge fan of the white sauce. Its a great place to bring out of town friends because I'm pretty sure they heard of this cart. Only downside is finding somewhere to sit and enjoy this meal. (bring some water --- you'll be thirsty after!)
There is a reason why this Halal cart has 1300 reviews. ? The bf and I were on our way back to the hotel when he decided that it was time for second dinner. ?Lucky for us this cart just happens to be parked a block away from the Sheraton! It was 1am and the line was pretty long but it sure does move fast. ?I'm sure the crew has had way too much practice at feeding the hoards of hungry, drunk people. ?This cart doesn't open til 7:30pm so you know they're catering towards the dinner and late night crowd. ? Ordering is simple, you tell, you pay, they instantly hand you food, you sauce, you eat. Done. ?We ordered a mix platter - both lamb and chicken over rice, salad, with some pita bread. ?The white sauce is AMAZING - makes everything taste even more delicious. ?I warned the bf about the red sauce (thanks Yelp!) but he thinks he is the master of all things spicy... so he loaded up on more sauce than was necessary.... we had to avoid that corner of the plate it was SO EFFING HOT. ? One mix platter is enough to feed 2 people - unless you're starving. ?All that food for less than $10! ?Really can't go wrong.
yes long line... BUT IT IS WORTH THE WAIT!!! I was on a full stomach and still enjoyed the combo plate. The flavors of the meat is excellent AND the yogurt sauce is phenomenal. After a long night of going out, I think this is the best way to end the evening.
Lots, good and cheap. We were lemmings, we saw a huge line and figured that whatever was being served must be good, so we decided to give it a try. ?A note to oneself, don't try this at Magnolia Bakery, which has huge lines but has shamelessly mediocre cupcakes. ? Portions are generous, so if you are just a little peckish, order one serving for two people. ?At $6.00 per bowl, it is a real bargain in an area just off Times Square whose restaurants charge a premium to unsuspecting tourists. The food itself ... we were left somewhat puzzled, it was tasty if not just ok, but certainly did not justify the lines. ?It was a fun, local NY City experience.
Chicken, Lamb, rice, and white sauce....don't bother me I'm gorging!! One of the best meals after some fun and drinks around town, on a nice night, the line can get ridiculously long but it goes by fast. ?If you don't want the full "tourist" experience, there's a few other carts by the same company, a block away in just about every direction but north. ?Even at the "tourist" experience there's a local's line.. shady people! welcome to NYC.
Halal: is a term designating any object or an action which is permissible to use or engage in, according to Islamic law. What the Halal do they put in that white sauce? I am telling you that sauce is the best sauce EVVAAA! Its like crack, maybe they put crack in it. It's spicy, but manageable at the same time, and when you put it on top of the lamb and chicken combo, its like I died and woke up next to a 100 virgins (no offense). Came here on a holiday visit to NY and I can tell you its definitely worth waiting 45 minutes in line in freezing temp just to try. Luckily, my wet boogers dried up fast enough in the freezing cold so they couldn't land on top of this wonder of a meal and spoil it. Any foodie visiting Manhattan, must take time out of your tourist-laden visit to give the 53rd and 6th cart ?a try. Any future visits will include this as a mandatory stop. One more thing, make sure you pour that white sauce all over it, let it marinate for a minute, and repeat.
It's been awhile since I've actually eaten food that makes me think about it for days afterward. The chicken, lamb, rice combo is highly addictive and I only wished I lived closer to the cart so I can have it within arm's length! Great for a late night out on the town!
This review will be short. The best halal food in town. I won't even try any other kebab because it will be a disappointment or will be way more expensive. The only 4 tips I have are: - the line moves fast so don't be intimidated and leave - throw everything in a bowl (combo platter - $8) with extra garlic and red sauce. (no BBQ sauce) - pick up a drink from the adjacent cart who is monopolizing on his location because this cart doesn't serve drinks. -don't sit on ?the fountain in front of the cart to eat because a guard will tell you to get off of it. My mouth is watering...
Let me paint you a picture. It is 2 am on a Saturday night, it is in the low 30 degrees, droves of people are waiting in line, and there is a delightful man playing his guitar near this rambunctious crowd. Where could such an occurrence happen? If you guessed the Halal Cart on 52nd and 6th in New York City then you are absolutely wrong you moronic slut! No, this is the world famous Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th. Yes people will line up in frigid weather for nearly an hour just to taste this amazing fusion of New York rugged street food and Arab fine dining. When I got in line I kept telling myself, Messiah, there is no way this food could ever be worth this cold, teeth tattering wait, there is absolutely no way. I finally made my way to the front and ordered my food, grabbed the famous "White Sauce", no homo, and went to town. I walked a few steps further got my Mountain Dew and sat down to experience what I hoped would be food almost as good as 40 virgins in heaven. First bite into this medley of Arabic delight I thought to myself, "Oh My God!!!.....this was not worth 45 minutes in the freezing cold weather." Of course it wasn't there is NOTHING worth waiting in line in freezing weather! Even if they gave me the key to New York City and a starting spot on the Knicks it still wouldn't be worth it! However, with that said it was pretty damn amazing. The meat is fresh and warm in your mouth, no homo, the bread is absolutely tasty covered with white sauce, no homo, and the rice was just really good, no gay euphemism here. Street food is usually looked down upon; however this place turns that stereotype upside down. I've sat down at Arab restaurants whose food wouldn't compare to the foil in which this food was carried in. On top of everything the price is amazingly fair considering you are in New York. Fresh warm meat, spicy and tasty rice, and bread which was warmed to perfection is what I consider a great Halal meal. New York where dreams are made, especially if your dream is to eat some really good Halal Food!
The lamb and rice with their secret white sauce and the hot, hot sauce is to die for! My boyfriend and I stood in line at 1am to try the famous new york halal food and no regrets!!! I'm craving for some now, is there any place like this here in LA?!?!?!?
When you ask New Yorkers "where should I go when I visit NYC?" This halal cart ALWAYS gets a recommendation. ?And it has to be THIS halal cart.. the one off 52nd and 6th. ?You will know its the one because there will be a HUGE line. Of course food off the street in a cart would be amazing - especially after a night of drinking! ?I've been to New York twice and both times I've eaten here. ?The first time I had the chicken, I was pleased, but I tried it again recently and it really was worth 4.5 stars. ?I think the lamb with the chicken combined gives it an extra kick of flavor. I got the lamb and chicken combo. ?The yogurt sauce is SOO good with the lamb but the red sauce will melt your lips off. If you are not a fan of spicy - skip the red sauce. Cash only
Stopped by last night, a Sunday night, around 10pm. ?The line was at least 15 people long. ?Well worth the five minute wait. ?The ?combo plate was awesome and hit the spot! ?We'll be back! ?YUM!
An important FYI for all you first-timers: The REAL halal cart (the one reviewed here) operates from 7:30pm to 4:00am. The cart that parks in the same spot during the day is another vendor whose product is decent, but just not as tasty. Aite? Enjoy.
lamb and rice. MONEYYYYYY. after a night of clubbing or drinking, this place really hits the spot. the hot sauce is so good, but beware it's a lot spicier than it looks. i can usually take a high level of spicyness so i put hot sauce all over my plate and i could barely feel my tongue after eating because my mouth was completely numbed by the spice. it's a good way of warming up in the winter though when it's below freezing at night. i've never had lamb and rice when i was sober (or before 2am for that matter), so my judgment could be severely impaired, but lamb and rice has never failed to satisfy my drunken cravings. the lamb and rice is 1000x better than the chicken and rice. so get the lamb!!!
I've done the line thing before, you gotta do it once. But I am now happy to know that it's true-- the cart right across the street at 54th and 6th are the SAME EXACT DUDES. So last night I ended up getting my food about an hour or so before the dorks that followed the herds and stood in the long line. As always, it was delicious. Also as always, I cursed myself for using too much of the hot sauce. Such is Halal Food.
Introduced to by a friend that was here once before. ? I am so glad I got to try this before leaving New York. This has got to be the spot that you must not miss going to New York when it comes to food. ?You can't beat the price and the taste. ?You will be asking yourself how can something taste so good come from a cart on the street and to top that off it's not expensive. Hala chicken and rice with white and red sauce. ?The red sauce is definitely spicy, so if you can't take spicy food don't put to much of the red sauce. Comes with rice, chicken, small salad, cheese, red and white sauce with a few slices of pita bread. This is a spot that I would definitely go back to if I had the chance. ?To some people it might just be simple chicken and rice, but to me the flavor is there , it's great and cheap, can't complain. Just hope there is no line the time you're there.
I went to review this, looked at the review count of over 1,000 and thought to myself, "Self, nobody will give a damn what you write here." I don't care, because I am stubborn like that. Stand around. Wait. ?I don't care if the line is a block long, and it probably is. ?I don't care if you are surrounded on both ends by people from Ohio with guide books, "I 'heart' NY" T-shirts and who are wearing sandals with white knee socks and fanny-packs. ?I don't care if it's 3am and some drunk chick throws up on you. ? ?Unless she already ate the food. ? ?And ordered the hot sauce.. Have you ever seen Starship Troopers? If you have, there are 2 things you need to be reminded of: 1.) You wasted your money. Even if it was free. 2.) There is a scene where this giant beetle thing sprays a stream of plasma from it's nose like that fat kid in school that used to laugh so hard at lunch he sprayed milk from it, except instead of soiling your lunch tray this particular jet of nose-expulsion melts people completely. It melts a girl's arm clean off her body as she wails in pain. If said drunk person put more than 2 teaspoons' worth of their hot sauce on her food before choosing to throw up on, you very well may lose a limb. This stuff is nuclear hot. Like, I once sat on the bench mouth breathing right at my date for 3 minutes with a half-chewed mouthful of food right in front of her because I took one bite that had like 5 drops on it. This stuff is insane. Other than that, they also possess highly highly highly tasty street meat, and curiously decent salad mix also, which I can only assume is due to the high turn rate of the food. The only people I can think of who can compete with this is the guy in Queens by Socrates sculpture park (I think he's reviewed also but I don't remember the name) - but if you're from Ohio and terrified of leaving the Times Square area because you don't want to get mugged, just venture a few blocks away from the M&M store to this little cart of joy. Just don't forget about the hot sauce. Consider yourself warned..
Ugly but good food! You will wait in a long line of hungry drunk people at 2am, but it's totally worth it. The food is not a pretty sight- chopped up pieces of brown meat and sauce - but it is SO good. The meat is super flavorful, and for some reason that lame shredded lettuce they give you really balances out the heaviness of the meat, rice and sauce. It's heaven in a foil to-go box, yum. Order the lamb and chicken combo and make sure to put hot sauce and white sauce on it!
Everyone knows this place is great, just putting my stamp on it. ?Only reason it loses a star is because the lamb isn't that great. ?Def go chicken over rice with spicy on the side.
Pricing, Quantity, and taste! very very delicious!!!!!! had to get extra white sauce but love love this place!!!!!!! chicken, rice and white sauce! dont sleep on it!
I agree with all the 4- and 5- star reviews.... if this were 2008. 53rd and 6th used to be a holy ritual for me and my friends. We would literally make 40 mile drives for the sole purpose of waiting in Chicken & Rice's enormous line, eagerly buying our platters, and scarfing them down in the nearby benches with their rat-infested little 'garden.' But that was when 53rd and 6th was amazing. The white sauce, the red sauce, the juicy lamb platter---all in the past. Maybe they changed suppliers. Maybe their popularity has caused them to cut corners. All I know is, this once-beloved halal cart has gone down the drain. I recommend the one at W 4th and 6th--it's as close to the glory of ancient 53rd and 6th as I can remember. A Hint: if you MUST get 53rd and 6th, cross 6th ave and go to the satellite cart. It's usually got a smaller line and it's the same exact food.
I guess there was so much hype about this halal cart that I expected our dinner to be sort of a religious experience. ?This wasn't the case. ?However, pouring your own white sauce is a huge luxury, and the food is quite delicious. ?Definitely make a trip out here. ?Totally worth it.
The more white sauce, the better!!!!!!! Chicken and rice is a classic, must try kind of dish whenever you're in the area. Personally, i LOVE the chicken/lamb rice combo!!!!! They give you plenty of each and they're both EXCELLENT! We also tried the chicken wrap (doesnt come with rice, but they'll do it if you ask) and me, being a pita bread lover, loved the wrap too. We had the halal cart 3 times during our trip.. It just got better and better each time!
Since it is a street cart, there's not much to review but the food itself and what I got from here was nothing short of amazing! My girlfriend and I were in town visiting some friends and they had recommended this cart to us and said they had the best gyros in town. There was a street festival going on with dozens of vendors and off to the side of the festival was this cart with a line of twenty people or so waiting to get food. While waiting in line, we got a good view of the people around us with plates of their own. After waiting in line for about fifteen to twenty minutes, we finally got a chance to order. Ultimately, we each decided on the rice plate with lamb instead of the gyro sandwich. I had read about the white sauce and seen just about every person get it on their plate, so we each got some also. First impression: Wow! What amazing flavor! The portions were great for the price also (~$6 per plate). I wasn't sure if I was going to be able to finish it all, even though I was pretty hungry and had been walking around a lot, but it was so good that I powered my way through! We were in no way disappointed and thoroughly enjoyed every bit of it! Next time we go to NYC, we will most likely make a pit stop here!
Maybe it's good if you're drunk and from out of state, but if you know want to know what's really good chicken and rice, head over to Sammy's halal. Beware of the hot sauce and know what you order before they ask you.
Always worth the wait! The End
yeah... what the other yelpers said. AMAZING. WOW. however you want to put it. best $6 I've ever spent... times two. because i went back the next night. then i hit the gym.
I'm going to try these guys when its not 3:30 am on a friday morning. some other reviews mention that they mash the chicken and lamb together once it gets late and thats what ended up in my container. i got the chicken plater which consisted of shredded chicken bits over rice all of which was over some bitter iceberg lettuce. the first bite tasted yummy (maybe that was the excitement of finally getting to try this cart's food) but every bite after that felt like it may have been tasty and well seasoned at one point in its life. on the bright side: ?there are plenty of white sauce containers that are located on the side of the cart, free for you to grab and pour. the wait was only a couple of minutes. over 1000 people can't be wrong, so i'm going to give these guys another try. just be wary of the early morning bits-o-meat.
best drunken food in the city. ? the line can be preposterous though (20-30 min at 4am on a Friday night can feel like eternity), which is why it's important to know.. ...there's a lot of misinformation surrounding the various midtown halal carts. ?go to the SE corner of 53/6th instead of the NW corner. ?its literally the same thing (same owners, same recipe) but without the line. ?but beware going to that same corner during the daytime. the halal there is good, but not the same.
I finally had this rumored "best cart food in NY" and it did NOT disappoint. I ate the entire thing on the side of the street nearby, pouring that spicy redness onto my lamb and chicken which were seasoned to perfection. The line can be long sometimes but that's what happens when its cheap, delicious, and famous.
Best Halal cart. I've been to this one everytime I visit NYC.
Honestly, I don't get it.... It's good street food, but it's nothing to crave... Is it great? No. ?Is it tasty? Sorta... Is it tasty at 3am while you're drunk as shit, and can hardly stand up? Absolutely. ?Is it worth the line? At this stand? Probably... Not a lot of people know (for some bizarre reason), that this stand and the stand down the street (53rd and 6th) are the same food... Smaller line here, and, friendlier service (probably because of the smaller line), but it's the same food, anyway. Make sure you had adequate white sauce, or the food will be dry and gross
We saw like 3 of these carts, and one of them had a super long line while the other ones were ok-long. Anyways, got the chicken only combo. Was pretty good - the sauce was good, hot sauce is really spicy, line was long except service was quick, and it was only six bucks. That's a steal. Was great food to eat because it was so cold outside, but it cooled down in like 5 mins. Also, it's pretty messy to eat, and it's a cart so you have to sit somewhere outside and eat it. That's the biggest con of this place.
My only update was to the owners of the Chicken and Rice Cart because I will be back soon baby. ?I hope you didn't miss me too much.
Believe the hype, suckas. ?Best and cheapest meal we had in NYC.
Food was good but nothing spectacular.
Why is there always about 50 people in line at this place?? Its cheap, a lot of food and tasty. Not to mention their great location in the midst of many NY night life hot spots and open until the break of dawn. Their secret white sauce is what makes the "platter" so make sure you load it up. I recommend getting the combination which includes cut up gyro and chicken on top of a bed of rice with some lettuce. Yes, this is the best food on the go and not going to get any better coming from a street vendor but it is a street cart. So if you are looking for a sit down, in door place this is not for you. ?Also be prepared to wait 15-20 minutes in line at peak times at night but dont worry that loooong line does move faster than you expect.
I don't know what I can add to the 780+ reviews, but to say in our 6 nights in New York, we ate there twice. ?And right now, I wish I were in NYC so I could go there and eat some. ?Oh, yeah, the hot sauce is really hot. ?I mean, I like hot, but this sauce is really hot.
Good, but not great. I feel like you can get the same food at any cart FOR A SHORTER LINE. ?Now COME ON!! 4 am and you're waiting outside in the freezing rain, snow, sleet for f*^&%0ng lamb and rice for 20 minutes?? Suree, the usual excuse for all these drunk late night clubbers are "don't worry, the line moves fast". ?Well I've waited there, the line moves fast SOMETIMES, but most times they don't. ?And there have been so many times I have asked for white sauce and they give me a dirty look because they forgot to put it in and think I'm grubbing for more. ?And to be honest, I HATE waiting on another line just to get a drink. ?I know it's some type of assembly line to make things move faster, but it's stupid to me. ?I can go down the block to another cart, have them remember my name, and have them hook me up with extra sauce and meat and even free drinks. ?These people sure could afford it. And hate to ruin the white sauce ingredient, but it's mainly mayo, vinegar, and black pepper, and yes, I've asked the cart next door.
My boyfriend and I have been to this cart 3 times in the past 6 months. When we visited NYC for Thanksgiving we came here back to back days. The first day we came around 2pm and there was still a long line, we waited maybe 20 minutes. The menu on the cart is confusing. I think it lists things that they don't even make. The choices are really chicken or lamb and sandwich or plate. We ordered 1 lamb plate ($6) and 2 lamb sandwiches ($4 each). We only got the white sauce, because the red is pretty spicy. It was delicious! I only rate this place a 4 star because the next day we went to this cart at around 4pm, there was no line, in hindsight, maybe the food was sitting there a little too long. We ordered a lamb plate. After a couple of hours i realized it gave me food poisoning and I couldn't keep any food down for a week, sadly it was thanksgiving week =(. Back again in NYC for chinese new years, we again ordered a lamb plate and 2 lamb sandwiches. Yes! no food poisoning this time! I would definitely recommend this place (though the one in jackson heights is pretty much the same, maybe a little cheaper) but go when there is a crowd, the food is probably fresher then.
This place is awesome. I was afraid to try it because of all the hype, but it was amazing. The food is CHEAP ($6 for a combo) and it tastes great. Put a ton of white sauce and a little red sauce on your combo and you're all set. Disclaimer: haven't tried the other carts and have little experience with halal.
It was in the middle of December 2005, about 20 degrees out. There was a blizzard on the way so after the boy picked me up we decided to just grab a snack and head back to his place in BK. We were still in the honey moon stages of the relationship so I figured it would be "cool" of me to show off that his new girlfriend knew this hot spot for street meat! Found parking and jumped on line while snow started to fall. A quick run for snacks turned out to be an hour wait with snow blowing sideways. Time ticked by, our black winter coats were covered in snow and I saw the change on the boy's face. He was hungry, he was cold, he was mad. We finally got hold of our lamb over rice platters, drenched in a concoction of hot sauce & the highly addictive white sauce but spent another hour driving back to BK on an iced out BQE with 0% visibility. We sat in front of the TV in silence eating our platters and in my mind I already thought the relationship was doomed, that he thought I was this psychotic chick, that dragged him out in apocalyptic weather for meat! .. from a fricken cart!! "This is one of the best meals I've ever had!" he had said, with his face glowing from a satisfying, lip smacking, filling meal. All was right in the world again and with this I found a guy who shares my tastes in food and appreciates the value and wait for a good meal. We've come here intoxicated at 3am as well as 8pm for a sober dinner. We've gone and received food after 5 minutes and gone when the wait was close to an hour. My now BF who waits for nothing and no one, now stands beside me on the sometimes ridiculous line to eat one of the greatest things this city has to offer. Every time out of state folk come to visit or if friends request an after party treat, he proudly recommends "Gyro Man" as the go-to place.
They know what's up. And that's all I need to say.
after finishing the new york city 1/2 marathon on sunday i decide to play russian roulette with my stomach on sunday night by visiting this halal cart. ? well, what do you know? ?this cart rocks! ?the food is good. ?as you can see by the number of reviews and i didn't get sick. ?i was pretty sure i wasn't going to sick since they turn over the product fairly quickly due to the amount of business but you never know. ? i got the chicken & lamb platter for $6 bucks. ?it was a lot of food and for that price it was worth it to stand in line. ?if you get a chance go check this place out. ?it's great street food.
The hot sauce is sooooo intensely HOT!!!
Ate here on the recommendation of our tour guide. Thank you tour guide. 2 words. YUM MEEEEE I hope they come to la. This would be a great addition to ghetto dogs and taco trucks.
After being on a plane for 6 hrs and not having eaten anything all day, the chicken and rice was like manna from the heavens! ?Greasy, flavorful manna~ $6 combo plate gets you half lamb, half chicken, rice, salad, and pita slices. Do: ?Go crazy with the white sauce Don't: ?Go crazy with the red sauce Note: ?There are two surrounding ?carts on the same block/intersection which is the same company (check their clothes & bags to verify). ?Save yourself the long wait in line and go to the other carts for a quicker fix.
DELICIOUS, FAST and CHEAP! I don't know what the white sauce is.. but it's delicious, watch out for the hot sauce! I had the combo platter, not sure what everything was, but it was gooood.
i dont need to rave about this place, u guys know whats up. ?my only suggestion is dont waste your time on the chicken, go with the lamb...so much better. ?and be mindful of the red sauce, mucho caliente... ok but ?PAY ATTENTION: from like 7am-7pm, these guys are ONLY on the SOUTHEAST corner of this intersection, NOT their famous late-night southwest corner. ?my friend told me recently how he went there one afternoon and got duped. ?turns out, these guys only have rights to the SW corner from 7pm onward. ?they have the SE corner (across 6th ave) all day and night 24/7. ?the halal guys that have the SW corner during the day are imitators. ?they sport yellow t-shirts, package their sauce in the same plastic containers, and have the same lettuce+yellow rice+meat+pita setup in the same foil containers. ?but they are imposters trying to make money off of someone else's fame!! how can you tell? ?the COPYRIGHTED YELLOW BAGS. ?someone posted pictures of them here already, so check them out. ?make sure the stand you go to has these yellow bags. ?otherwise theyre not the real deal. ?maybe in the future these guys will own every corner on that intersection 24/7 and itll be all good. ?but until then, look for the YELLOW BAGS cause only these guys own the copyright to that.
There are no words that describe how amazing this place is. The shawerma is AMAZING. This is about as close as it gets to the shawerma places at home. The white sauce is to die for. By far my favorite place to eat in NYC, went here twice. Only draw back, they don't open till late night. Also, LONG LINES!!! Be prepared to wait an hour on a nice night, drawback to most popular NYC places.
First of all These stands are everywhere! With a line of people at every stand. Must be good....The people in line ranging from college kid to business suit. They are similar but all have a slight different twist. This is crazy I ate at 3 different stands and the first one was my favorite! I ordered the chicken/lamb combo over rice. I did not actually eat at this particular cart but I just wanted to comment on the actual idea itself. I wish we had HALAL carts in Memphis TN! Anyway back to the food....It came with rice, chicken, lamb, salad, and just a few fries ( or some give you pita bread) with cucumber dressing all over. optional the spicy sauce. I LOVE spicy! The dish had a mild kick. Nothing too much to handle. But very good food for the price $6! VERY FILLING! Good lunch or late nite snack after being out all night! By the way the carts have many other menu items but I just couldn't get past the rice combo.
I loved this place. The food was fresh, good, and fulfilling. I was introduced to this place by friends and I won't lie I was a little hesitant at first, but once we got it I liked it a lot. Just a warning... don't put too much hot sauce!
Eh. I've had better. I actually had a stomach ache after and stayed away from street meat for 6 months but I could never stay away permanently.
Wow, after reading the reviews of this place I had to check it out. I mean look at all these five star reviews (and four star) it has to be good! So I like everyone else waited in line. I was with some people who had eaten from this cart before and they were so excited to get another plate of this food. I ordered the combination plate. It was lamb and chicken on a bed of rice. They gave me a huge portion; I was thrilled with how much food I had for the money. I also put some of this sauce that everyone on YELP raves about! I sit down and take my first bite. I had texture in my mouth but where was the flavor. I took a second bite, once again no flavor. The sauce that everyone raves about sort of had a little bit of flavor I guess but I might have been wishing so hard for something to like about this place I might have imagined it. WOW, this was some bad food. I looked around me and noticed something. Just about everyone around me was ages 16-25ish and I began to think "do these people really think this is good or are they coming here because they get sooooo much food?" I am also guessing that these same people not that long ago were taking their high school prom dates to the Olive Garden and thinking that was "FANCY" and authentic Italian. At that age do these people even have fully developed taste buds? So needless to say I might have choked down 1/3 of the meal and the rest went into the trash. This was a HUGE disappointment.
approved. meat is juicy and the food is not overly salty like the stuff i get at home. got to try the gyro combo and combo plate. it. was. delicious. ?im glad i skipped out on all the halal carts and walked over here for dinner. this seriously hit the spot and then some. share the platter with a friend, it has tons of food. just be prepared for a little line. the wait is worth it.
Back again and still holds up. I will say this though... I did try another halal cart in the daytime a few blocks up and it was good, I'd say, two together someone would be hard-pressed to pick the "best" as many folks say 53rd and 6th is. I get the feeling that many folks, including myself, bought into the hype, saw the ridiculous line at 1930 and because of that, it's the best cart in town. Who knows, the others could all be shyte... the one I had for lunch though was pretty damned good too though.
Visiting from Cali my first day in NYC started early with my food excursion. Right before i devoured my plate i just finished a bagel, pizza, shake shack combo, macaron, chocolates and some drinks in between meals...i was stuffed..but i couldn't pass up this famous halal cart that all my friends were raving about. omg the hot sauce is spicy! like El Taurino's in LA..yummaaay....the chicken/lamb was good and the rice was flavorful! The white sauce...extra of course is a must do and i swear all of this tasted so familiar! Taco Bell Gordita!!! lol pretty much tasted like a chicken gordita from taco bell with sourcream and a weaker hot sauce. im not complaining but the taste was very similar and Im craving for it ever since i left nyc...till now i gotta rip apart my gordita, plate it and just imagine.
Fast, cheap (about $6 for a combo plate), convenient, and most importantly, GOOD! ?Got the lamb and chicken combo over rice, and we all loved it...even my 3 and 5 year old kids! ?The portions served are perfect, also! ?And because this place is always busy, you know the food hasn't been sitting there all day. ?Will definitely be back the next time we are in NY!
i was surprised by the wait! but a-ok it goes by fast. don't mind the cooks who make the food, touch the money and put some food in their month at the same time with no gloves at any of the stages. it contributes to the AUTHENTIC taste! =P dude for like 6 bucks its pretty good and they give u so much. after u get ur food, remember to go to the side like its an alley and pour on your white sauce and hot sauce. and don't listen to the fucker who tells u its bbq sauce--the sauce is effin HOT, MIX and eat! nom nom nom. btw you can share this meal with like 3 people. its WAY too much for one person.
Most amazing deal ever. Ppl will say its not the worth the hype or the long wait but it is. Far better than all the rest of NYC halal carts. I used to go there twice/thrice a week when I was in NYC, miss it loads
For what it is, the food is very good. I enjoy the chicken. The lamb is not for me, it is too gritty. The hot sauce is amazing. I use a lot of hot sauce and only a little of the white sauce. At $6 you really cannot get this much food anywhere else in midtown. Not even the grimiest chinese takeout. The guys who run it are sometimes a pain with regards to taking it to-go. Sometimes they will close the lid for you, sometimes they will tell you to do it yourself. Sometimes they will give you sauces in to-go cups, and sometimes they will tell you that you can't have sauce to go, even though the pre-packed sauces are sitting in front of you. Come on man, I like to have the sauce to go, because by the time I walk home the sauce has dried out if its already on the food! I don't go if the is line longer than 10-15 people. It is far from an oasis in the desert.
supposedly this is the best halal cart in the city, so a friend and i tried it the other week. when we got there at around 1 pm, there was a long line of businessmen waiting to get their grub on. got the lamb and chicken combo over rice. SO GOOD. huge portions and it was only $5! i'm not a big lamb person but i figured i should try it. the lamb was kind of ground up looking, next time i go i think i'm just gonna get chicken. i couldn't handle the spicy sauce, my mouth was burning even with the super delicious yogurt sauce to counteract the burn. i can't wait to eat this again; i was craving it at all hours but didn't have time to go back!
Before I tried, I didn't know what the hype was for this 'chicken over rice' plates... Especially because of so much hype, I was secretly scared that I would be disappointed... However, this is one thing I dearly miss for NYC & the most memorable meal too! Trust me...I ate a lot that day as this was probably the 4th meal I had that day (please don't judge! I was on a vacay!) but it seriously STOOD OUT from all the other delicious food I had in the city! After coming back to LA, I tried looking for this everywhere but no sign! Does ANYONE know where I will be able to find something remotely similar to this?
I think I got food from here like 20 times and 60% of my time there have been bad. Chicken and pita bread portions, tiny. Rice, not great. Exuberant amount of sauce thrown in a bag. And once, I was given a tray (with no cover), a bag full of sauces, a fork, and like 4 napkins. Now honestly, how was i gona take this back home without a cover? Weird :P Anyway, it's a great way to kill some time. Halloween 2009, I saw Cookie monster and Elmo get their butts whooped. They were drunk off their cracker and CM ended up with a bloody nose. I wouldve helped but i didnt want to lose my spot on line ;P
Probably the best food you'll find anywhere for $6 after midnight. ?If this place was open during the day, I would probably go then as well. ?I always get the mixed chicken and lamb with lots of white sauce and a little bit of red sauce. ?I made the mistake of going half red and half white once and I did not enjoy it all. ?The red sauce is extremely spicy. ?This is the place I recommend to all my friends that visit the city, definitely a NYC institution.
Such a Long wait! Its ridiculous esp. when it is so cold outside people still wait for it!! It is pretty yummy for something you get out of a cart and since there is such a high turn over rate with the meat on the grill, it looks and taste like it's pretty safe! The one thing that puzzles me the most is the white sauce, I am not really sure what it is but it is Awesome! It does not taste like a yogurt base maybe it is Ranch? but who knows. I don't suggest eating too much of these plates because its pretty greasy. It is so greasy that it actually taste fine the next day and the day after coming out from the fridge and reheated from the microwave. The oil acts like some sort of preservatives, crazy stuff! Great for college students and drunk people coming out of Parties! My Pick: -The Combo with Pita Bread (Chicken and Lamb) **Beware: the hot sauces is REALLY HOT!!**
The line was pretty long. It was a good late night snack(?) after a Broadway show. It was my first time trying lamb and rice, and it was pretty good. The food comes in a huge portion, but if you're tipsy and the weather is cold, you can finish it all while sitting on the sidewalk in front of the skyscrapers like bums. The food overall was good, but nothing spectacular to be honest. There are just so many of these carts in the city that I would just go somewhere else to avoid the wait.
Only basically three meals you can have here: 1) Chicken 2) Lamb or 3) Combo plate of the two. I'd say skip just chicken and go combo or lamb. The line here is always pretty long during anytime of the day (Lunch - 6am?) so be prepared to wait 15-ish minutes in line to get your foods. The meat itself is pretty simple rice, meat, pita, and some "salad". Load up on some white sauce if you like it (i don't) or load up on the spicy red sauce ( be warned it is very spicy, a bit like sriracha but with more staying power in the heat). Pro-tip: If you don't want to stand in the long long line go to the Southeast corner of the intersection and its the same guys look for the same shirts and yellow bags. The food is very nice and expertly seasoned. If you do not have an iron stomach your tummy might ache a little after eating. The portion they give you is pretty big for $6 I have never been able to finish the entire meal. If you are craving an excellent street meal at any hour of the day/night go here with the $6 you scrapped together and dig in.
Wow . i cant believe i actually waited on line for 1 hour for street food ... but it was worth it ... Yay
Definitely a NY staple- I eat here every trip at least once, and it never fails to disappoint. Although on my last visit, I had forgotten how spicy the red sauce is and poured myself a generous amount over my chicken and rice til I couldn't see any thing but red. Hello Halal! and Hello BTS! But my BF and I both couldn't stop eating it as we were both sweating and shaking through each and every spicy, burn through your stomach lining bite. We had to make a pit stop at a convenience store down the street to get some milk after, as we both couldn't talk through our numb, burning lips. Now I know why they only put a little bit on when they pour for you... I always thought they were being miserly, but they're probably more likely avoiding law suits. Still, I think this is the most delicious Halal food cart, and I will definitely be back on my next trip to the city :)
If you go around 9:30pm on a weeknight the line is only about 10-15 minutes long! I would highly recommend this if you you a tourist and just visiting... that way you will be steering clear of sloppy drunk folks and instead be standing in line with people who are getting off of work in the midtown area/ families. DO NOT POUR THE RED SAUCE ALL OVER YOUR DISH! I'm an avid hot sauce lover but this stuff is more of an unrefined hot sauce...chunky and dry (yes, a sauce that is dry...). It's very unappetizing when it dries out on your food, which it does since it's not a very liquidy sauce to begin with. DO take extra white sauce with you. Seriously... you can never have enough white sauce. I ran out of white sauce and was very sad... Aside from those pointers the chicken and rice is all that everyone raves it to be!
Why have there been over 1000 reviews? Because it's darn freaking good. Normally I get the combo with the white sauce, barbecue and a DASH of hot sauce. As fellow yelpers have already stated, the HOT SAUCE is SPICY. Being raised with Chinese food, I've tried many variations of hot. So when I say it's hot, I mean it is hot and spicy to the core. ? For me, strange things have happened whenever I buy this delicious plate. A. I typically don't eat the same stuff for at least a month because it normally wouldn't taste as good. But this cart is a MAJOR EXCEPTION. B. I once waited in the rain and 90 degree weather. I hate waiting. C. All other halal food carts no longer live up to my expectation. Now that is dangerous. HINT: There's another cart across the street from MOMA which is operated by the same people. In fact, I've seen people deliver the same meat and sauce to both carts! Edit: Brought it down to 3.5. Honestly, this place is still good, but after tasting Sammy's, the 53rd and 6th is second to it.
Fantastic. ?Mouth-watering. Go. ?Get in line.
Halal carts remain one of my all time favorite street vendor food. ?Better than hot dogs, korean tacos, burgers or any other food I can think of. ?On this visit to NYC, we made sure to get there early (7 pm opening time), but it's crazy how long the lines get as people know to get there early. Word of advice: there are actually three vendors in this area, all from the 53rd and 6th family. ?Surprisingly, only one line is very long as the other two (especially the one a block down) are very sparsely populated. Like most people, I worried the other vendors were imitators and left the shorter line to go to the longer one. ?But I quickly found out from all three vendors that they are one and the same. ? The item to get is the combo over rice. ?The combo consists of lamb meat and chicken meat (white). ?Both meats are much spicier than I remember, but the white sauce (yogurt like) cools the heat, while the red sauce (sriracha like) makes it even more bold. ? Overall, it's an unbeatable meal for $5 and even better after a Broadway show when you go to the ones with short lines. ?I like variety when I travel and choose places to eat, but the Halal cart is the one place that I always hit twice in NYC. ?It's that good..... Cash only.
i'll keep this one short... 1 day in manhattan and i had to check this place off my list of places to go... follow the disneyland-long line of people to find the right cart. sooo worth the wait and go crazy on the white sauce... the red sauce is REALLY spicy and i can handle spice..i guess it didn't help that i accidentally ate a chunk of it at once... :) oh yah... i don't usually eat lamb, but ordered half lamb half chicken.. both were scrumptious! huge portion size! ended the night with a happy tummy and a happy wallet
Omg. Best. late night. cart food. EVAR. Except I first had it sober and it was STILL amazing. there are several of these around town and some are posers so look for the yellow plastic bags to tell it's legit. it's basically a rice/salad filled with chicken, lettuce, tomato, rice, and white sauce. Yum. there are extremely long lines at night, but if you flirt with a boy he'll let you cut. Totally crave worthy.
Everyone has written about this place so I'll keep it quick: open 10pm-5am bring cash $6 chicken or lamb or if too late at night before closed they mix it. white sauce is amazing pour it over your food spicy sauce is super spicy! watch out! the is parking right infront of it but hard to get. get a lid and the sauce to go if you are bringing it back to your apt!
We saw this place in 2009 coming back from some late night adventure and I wondered WTH were people standing in line for late at night....asked around in the hotel and was told what it was. ?We went the next afternoon and ?I was hooked! On our return trip to the area this place was on my list of musts. Took the Path train and then subway and arrived to get my fix. ?Lamb gyros!!! ?Love that red sauce - stings so good! Sat down with the other happy munchers under that statue right next to the cart and chomped away. ?I told the pigeons to give up hoping for a crumb for me - wasn't happening, go hustle someone else.
Wow, some of these 5 star reviews and the long lines shock my brain. This is good cheap food, but I don't really get the cult following. Guess I didn't drink the Kool-Aid. I've been wanting to try this, but I'm not really a stand in a line type. Last night, there was no line, I was hungry, and I went for it. I told the friendly attendant that I was a virgin and to hook it up. He went 1/2 beef, 1/2 chicken and dressed it up with both sauces. It was totally messy, but I don't have a problem with that. I definitely enjoyed it, but don't see what sets this apart from the zillion other places. I definitely wouldn't trek here or wait in line for this food.
Man, this place is mad busy and it's a great deal too. $6 for the Chicken and rice plate and it was "the bomb". Just be carefull with the hot sauce. I can eat really spicy foods and this hot sauce was extreme. We were all sweating and tearing over all the hot sauce we put in the plate and still finished it cuz it was so good. You gotta visit this place...........
EXTRA WHITE SAUCE PLS! :) There's a bunch of these Halal carts all over the city and especially working downtown, I see them on every street corner, but there's something special about the 53rd & 6th cart. Maybe it's because this is the most well-known one, which you can clearly see from the line formed any given night. I always feel like a little waiting for your food makes it that much more yummy when you finally get it! I've frequented this cart mostly after late nights out in the city and the Chicken and Rice platter w/ extra White Sauce ALWAYS hits the spot. It's a ton of food, but definitely sharable with a friend if you both aren't starving.
This review is long overdue. The food is good, but the owners and workers are dishonest. This isn't much better than other Halal trucks in the city and isn't worth the hype. Walk two blocks over to 55th and 6th for a shorter wait and better food. FYI - I handed one of them $10 for my food and I waited for my change. Then, a minute later, his buddy tries to collect from me. I told him I already paid and to ask his partner, but he preferred not to. They try and take advantage of drunk customers, so BEWARE! I do miss CnR, but this is the last place I would go for it.
Really good - open very late too! Get the white sauce.
Don't know what else to say about this place... Great tasting food at a very cheap price. Half and half. Covered in all white sauce. And then just a little tiny bit to the side, since it's SO HOT.
This is already been discussed ad nauseum, so I'll keep it brief. Drink a lot. Then go here. Be amazed at the length of the line at 3am. Look across the street. Notice the EXACT SAME CART with barely anyone waiting there. Go get the chicken and lamb combo over there and eat it in front of the lemmings waiting in line at the other cart. Extra white sauce, REAL easy on the hot sauce (unless you like fire erupting from your rear-end the next day), and don't ask questions. No one knows what the white sauce is, but it's amazing. You won't spend more than $6, but after a night of drinking in New York, that's probably all you have left anyway.
I hate giving mediocre reviews to places that have so many positive reviews. It makes me feel like I'm either completely missing out on some component or am just ultra critical. But I think on this occasion, I just chose a bad night to come. For super late dinner, I left my hotel on a summer rainy night ?at 11pm to come here to pick some food up. It was probably because of the gross weather, but there were definitely a lot less people waiting than the normal lines I hear/see pictures of, and probably resulted in their over-preparing food... resulting in lots of cooked meat waiting on the grills. It was basically a large amount of rice, meat, and lettuce for $6. I got chicken, but after trying my friend's lamb, I would've totally gotten that--or half/half, which is an option. The white sauce definitely made up for the dryness of the chicken meat (which may have been a fluke that night? I don't know). It kind of reminded me of a Chipotle burrito bowl after a while. Not the best meal I had in NYC, but definitely the best deal. I'd recommend here if you're watching your budget and/or want to see what all the hype is. Maybe you'd have better luck than I did!
Oh halal cart, ?How great thou art to me! ?You are my hero. ?You provide me balance when I falter. ?You give me strength when I am weak. ?You fortify my belly with yummy goodness when it is stricken with the pangs of alcohol overdose. ? You are my knight in shining aluminum!!! Seriously, when you are intoxicated, buzzed, staggering drunk, or just plain ole hungry anytime between 730pm until 4am halal cart on 53rd and 6th will forever be money in the bank (or yummy food in your tummy if you prefer the more literal term). ?You cannot go wrong with chicken, beef, or my personal favorite, lamb over rice. ?Order up, generously slather on the white sauce and drop in a few dollops of red and get you eat on! ?Ohm nom nom nom nom! HALAL CART NOTES: Yes, the Halal guys down the street are the same halal guys on the corner. ?Lines are always shorter there and its exactly the same food. ?Spare your palate and go easy on the red sauce. ?It is the spiciest sauce....EVER! ?Six drops or so usually does it for me. ?Start light and go from there. ?Remember that you can always add more if it isn't spicy enough. ?Enjoy!
Before this, I had never had Halal food in my life so I made sure that my first try of Halal food was going to be at the one place that put Chicken and Rice on the map. When I got to the area, I saw that the line was pretty long, even at the start of 7:30 which meant either one of two things: this place had become a new tourist attraction, or that this food was just that damn good. Fifteen minute later, I received my Chicken and Lamb combo (the one recommended by my friends) and liberally applied the white sauce as well as some of the hot sauce, which in retrospect was not the smartest idea. When I first got to try the food, it was indeed good, although a bit too spicy. Despite how delicious the food tasted, I couldn't help but feel that the food here was a mixture of my initial thoughts. The line was a bit long perhaps due to the attention that it's been getting (there were two separate locations with similar carts with the same food but a lot shorter lines) but also the food was good. The chicken was a bit dry, but the use of white sauce, which seems to be nothing more than a combination of mayo and yogurt, more than makes up for that. The combination of the flavors make the food tasty and food portion is great for the price you pay for food. The food is good, and it was nice to go to the place where Chicken and Rice was first put on the map, but there are other Halal Carts around the city that also put out equally as good food (although some of those other places doesn't exactly seem to be the cleanest). Still, the food was tasty and it was worth the trip here, even though the line was a bit long.
I was so excited to be in midtown late last week so I could finally try this cart!! I work 2 blocks away but I'm never around late enough to get food here. I went to the cart across the street because they also have the yellow shirts and bags but NO LINE. They said it's all the same food and same company. I got a lamb gyro for $4 and it was PERFECT. Just the right size. Next time I will get more white sauce and less hot - the hot was really spicy and the white was SO good!!! Can't wait to be in midtown late again...
$6 for a gigantic thing of chicken & rice? YES PLEASE! Actually, I prefer their COMBO plate - lamb, chicken, rice PLUS their yummy yummy white sauce and a dash of their hot sauce! This is one chicken and rice cart I'd travel and wait in their insanely long lines for! AND seriously, I don't do that with cart foods, EXCEPT this infamous 53rd & 6th! WARNING: Careful with the hot sauce! It really BURNS!
This place is overrated. We stood in line for 45 minutes before the cart opened for dinner. As we were standing in line and a couple behind us mentioned that they wanted to eat here for their 1 year anniversary, and they drove far away just to eat here. Guess it must be that good to come here on a special occasion. We ordered the chicken-lamb gyro combo with rice. We were in Greece for 13 days before coming to NYC, so we ate a lot of gyros. Eating the gyro was not the same, since it is supposed to be meat sliced from a meat spinner. It seems like the chicken and lamb was sliced up and then grilled. The chicken and lamb was extremely dry with the rice and lettuce. ?In addition, You had to put the white and/or red sauce on it for some flavor and moisture. That is too bad because if food is made well, you do not need extra sauce. The food is cheap for $6, and you get really full. However, this our last meal in NYC, and the most disappointed one. Note: For those eating at this cart, please remember to throw away your containers in the trash can. It was gross to see containers lying on the benches and on the sidewalk. In addition, it helps keep the streets of NYC looking cleaner. Cash only.
Cheapest meal I had to NY AND I had leftovers for two separate meals. It was raining when we went so the line wasn't too bad. I ordered the chicken and as everyone suggested, dunked it in Tzatziki sauce or what I'm guessing is Tzatziki. I was warned in advanced that the hot suace was really spicy. Seriously BE CAREFUL don't put too much! Their hot sauce blows sriracha way out of the capsaicin scale. no joke. Only four stars because the chicken tasted kind of funky. Maybe I didn't mask it with enough sauce haha But, great value ESPECIALLY in NY.
Great lamb plate over rice. Watch out for the hot sauce though, they don't mess around! Definitely a stop when you visit NYC!
Where do i start? Best meal in NYC for 6 bucks. The lamb/chicken combo is a staple but eventually you will phase out the filler aka the chicken and go for the lamb platter. White sauce really makes the meal and you have to add at least some hot sauce but dont overdo it. The BBQ sauce has no place on this fine meal.
After a night of bar hopping, my friends and I decided to grab some late night eats at this cart. I read so many great reviews on Yelp and wanted to check it out. We managed to find some street parking by the building in front of the cart, and there was a line of about 15+ people. It went by pretty quick, and I felt like I was going down through a drug deal. There were men taking orders in whispers, and passing along the information and cash, while another group of men handed us our food, efficiently and quietly. ?get in, get out. I got a little squirt of red sauce just to try, and a whole glop of white sauce. Both are delicious, but the red sauce is like having fire in your mouth! My brother took a lot of red sauce to his plate , took a bite , and ended up forking out the majority of his red sauce off his plate. It is super hot. Warning: Eat red sauce in moderation! A little bit goes a long way. We scarfed what we could while standing up because there aren't tables and chairs to sit on. STREET FOOD. Price is good for the amount you get, and the flavor of all the sauces and the food are deliciously pleasing. I could only finish half of my chicken & rice and took some back to the hotel for later.
You know this place is legit when can still enjoy it traveling across the country about 12 hours later hahaha ?No joke! My bf went back to NY and brought the one and only 53rd and 6th halal plate with half chicken and lamb to California for me and my girlfriends. ? I removed the lettuce and heated up the goods. ?One is enough to feed 2 of us! ?STILL DELICIOUS. ?I totally miss this!!!
I remember eating here about 3 yrs back...my NYC local friends raved about it and they weren't kidding. Had the chicken and rice w/tons of hot sauce..it was DELICIOUS! Can't wait to try it again!!
Unfortunately, everyone and their brother knows about this place! The line's usually pretty long, and for good reason. ?CHEAP, DELICIOUS AND FILLING! ?There as good for a midday lunch as they are for a drunken late night "snack." ?They recently raised their prices 33% (from $3 to $4 for a sandwich), but really...can you blame them? ? Helpful Hint: Although I can't vouch for their late night availability, their competing cart on 46th and 6th is a pretty close second, and never has the line...just saying.
Great sauces, TERRIBLE meat. Chicken tastes like reheated scraps from a leftover family dinner. For much better cart food, try 34th and 8th, 24 hours a day, right across from MSG. -Wrote this review when I first tried famous halal. Ive since had it dozens of times, its very good.
"true aficionados of gyro guys?" 'scuse me while I pick myself off the floor from laughing. You call em what you want, dude. =P Street meat in all its glory is something that you can enjoy while drunk or sober and I've been both. This cart is good, this cart is so good people leave with bags filled with 3-4 containers of the meat over rice. This cart is SO good that it's not just confused tourists standing on line near their hotel just to see what the hubub is about. People drive in for this cart. Indian and Muslim families get some to go for themselves and the kidlets. I got the lamb over rice to go. The pita was pillowy soft and the lamb was moist and went well with the rice and iceberg lettuce. I stuck my finger in the hot sauce just to try it plain and survived. The hot sauce is killer, the white sauce... it goes well over the dish if you add something vinegary to balance (I used white balsamic at home, don't knock it till you try it!). Otherwise, I've had better white sauce, but it was definitely yummy. My biggest gripe of waiting on line was standing behind 3 chain smoking bridge and tunnelers with their fake LV bag clutching girlfriends who were just there to stand around and didn't have anything to eat. It's allergy season and things that normally don't set me off (say, smoke trailing into my face) have the tendency to send me into a wild rage, asthma attack or both.
The only problem with this place is that it'll spoil cart food for you inasmuch as nothing will ever compare to this. ?Whether you get lamb or chicken in a pita or over rice, you will not be disappointed.
Addictive drugs come in many forms - sniffing, injecting, etc. ?At this cart, it comes in the form of a crack like white sauce. I have been to NY before already, but this trip I went twice to this cart. ?I was given a look of disapproval for going a 3rd and 4th time - I may have to end that friendship. ?I came for a wedding, but instead I took the time to renew my vows of love for the lovely lamb and rice - for better or worse, hot or cold, forever and ever. It may not always seem like it, but these guys are efficient. I recommend the lamb over the rice because of the visible fat content. ?I put on a layer of white sauce where nothing else can be seen. ?Be careful of the red sauce - a good kick. I under estimated it's power and had to get a drink of water. ?It was too much for my brother so instead of splitting 50/50 I ate all but 3 bites of this food from heaven. Hangover or not, this is a great late night food. ?Be prepared to wait about 30 minutes to get your food, but you are entertained by the aroma of the food, the diversity of the crowd (I've seen a fight break out there), and eloquent conversation of nom nom noms. I have been to James Beard Award winning restaurants, but if I could only have time for one meal in New York, this would be it.
Out of all the hundreds of street cart "halal" vendors in new york, how does this one street cart get so much business! ?I only come to this location whenever I'm in New York so I can't compare the food and prices to other street cart locations but I do know that the food here rivals anything you can find in a restaurant and for much cheaper! ?We showed up around 11pm and the line was already outrageously long (I wonder how long the wait is AFTER the clubs let out). ?But the workers were quick and efficient and after about half an hour we were able to place our one order of chicken and rice (also comes with sliced pita bread and a salad). ?Gave the fidel-castro-looking guy our $6 and then proceeded to the sauce section. ?Squirted the white sauce all over the dish and a little of the red sauce on one side (I can't really eat hot stuff but my bf loves it although he did get kind of scared when he overheard one tough looking russian guy telling another tough looking russian guy he would never touch that red sauce again!). ?Got our drinks from the cart next to it and crossed the street to eat our meals on the steps of a building (the sit down area by the cart was already packed). ?YummY! ?Everything I remembered it to be from the last time I tried it. ?The chicken was moist and flavorful, the rice was cooked perfectly and the white sauce was delicious! ?However, a tiny bit of the red sauce touched a piece of chicken I was about to eat - but it's okay cuz I can handle a little spiciness. ?WRONG! ?That tiny little amount burned my tongue for the rest of the night and my bf's ass was on fire the next morning! Definitely check this place out if you haven't already!
i was introduced to this cart by my sister and my cousin who swear by the food! ?there was a line and i was warned to chill on the red sauce and add the extra white....and boy were they right. and make sure your subway ride isn't too long as you take your food home....the food aroma takes over the entire train.. : )
There are about 3-4 of these on the corners. People say they are different but it looks the same and the workers have the same shirts. People love lines so I bet these places take turns being "the real" halal cart. Anyways great gyro and chicken portions on rice with some lettuce. ?Red sauce is spicy but adds a good kick and I cannot get enough of the white sauce (that sounded dirty). I just wished they give you more pita bread! Delicious!!
I rarely come to this part of town. Friend was in town and wanted to try the famous halal cart. We trekked over on a Saturday night after the bars and waited an excruciating 25 minutes. Excruciating because I wasn't smart enough to visit the ladies room at the last bar and there aren't any bathrooms around here!! (Hilton doesn't let you in) I digress. I got the combo plate with white sauce. I don't dabble with the spicy red sauce. And don't tell you no one told you the spicy stuff is flaming hot. Also, beware of imposter carts. The famous cart is NOT at the SW corner of 53rd and 6th all day. Look for the yellow bags with the logo! ? * SW corner of 53rd & 6th from around 8 p.m. until 5 a.m. ?You can't miss the line. * SE corner of 53rd & 6th during the day, from Noon until Midnight. There is also an offshoot that has reportedly slipped in quality: * SW corner of 53rd & 7th starting at 11:30 a.m.
Oh gosh...as i'm writing this review of this cart, my mouth is still watering over the fantastic white sauce over the chicken w/ rice and our gyro. The lamb and chicken were cooked to perfection, nice and moist.. There was a decent line when we got here. Make sure to not stop by the other 2-3 carts nearby, as they all claim to be the best Halal cart. This one is the legit one with the crowds:)
This shit is so overrated, and I got into an argument with several friends that they are smoking crack for what taste's like boiled chicken meat and bland overcooked rice with the hottest f-ing hot sauce that just burns and has no flavor, just heat. The white sauce is like some cum-sauce, f-ing nasty. FAIL.
Might be blasphemy but I think I'd rather spend my $6 toward a chicken burrito bowl at Chipotle. Halal Cart is good but not great (unless you are comparing it to other food carts, a few which seriously suck). It tastes like chicken and rice. Not sure what the fuss is about. Way too much hype here... Not sure if anyone mentioned it but the red sauce is like eating fire. I didn't know how hot it was and ate a lot of it-- horrible idea. As it started to burn in my mouth, I thought "Okay, there is no way this can get any hotter" but it just kept getting hotter and hotter. It was actually painful. I think I cried.
So we're looking for the halal cart. ?We hear it's at 53rd and 6th, but we're not sure it will be there because first come first serve on the street location. ?We're rookies at this street cart biz. ?A friend said you will know when you find it. ?Ok. ?So, we're walking up 6th Ave passing lonely halal cart after lonely halal cart and then OMG.... this must be it. ?A line 10 deep and about 20 people eating out of metal TO GO containers. ?I think we now know we found it. ?Not sure what to order, I ask and they say "combo". Okay. ?I say "Combo" and just hand the guy a $10 spot leery if he will look at me oddly and need more money. ?He hands me back $4. ?WOW!!! ?The meal is huge and good. ?They put some rice, lettuce and cheese in the bottom of the metal container, pile on mounds of lamb and chicken and a splash of pita. ?They give you two containers of the sauce. ?As you can see from the pics, everyone just smothers it with sauce and chows down. ?Excellent grub for $6. ?I couldn't eat it all. I wrapped it back up and gave it to a street person.
My favorite cart by far. ?Worth the wait, sometimes.
Halal = Heaven. ?This is the only reason I come to NYC every six months. ?Do they ship?!?!
Though the city never sleeps, apparently this joint does. ?Promptly at 4AM to be exact. ?So we left the club/bar early just to get our fix. ?Yes, our "fix". To be completely honest, this place gets 5 stars when I'm shitfaced drunk right before 4AM. ?While I'm on the brink of honesty with you, I really have to give this place only 3 stars when we settle on this spot for dinner at 8PM. ?It's just not the same. Don't worry, I've already made a mental memo to never come here sober again. ?I blame myself really. ?What was I thinking? EDIT - I just had a flashback. ?This place gets bonus points for being close to excellent private make-shift bathroom stalls up the alleyway. ?Though completely illegal, it's public urination at it's finest, folks!
The food here is just as good as my favorite halal cart outside Penn station. ?Yes, you have to wait in line for a bit of time, but it went pretty quickly. My fiancee had never tried Halal food ever before I brought this up for him from this cart, and he's now hooked. ?I ordered a chicken and rice with white sauce and extra pita. ?No hot sauce for us, as I've got an open cut in my mouth.
This place is sooo good! Who knew chicken and rice/lamb could taste so good?? I was skeptical at first especially after I saw the line wrapped around the block but was detemined to see what the hype was all about. Stood in line for about 30 minutes and it was well worth it. Just be careful of the hot sauce bc it wad VERY spicy, felt like my stomach was turning inside out after eating it. But the white sauce is ever so Delish!
In the words of a drunk friend at 4 in the morning, "It's sooooooo goooooood!"
It's 2AM Pacific time and I'm craving Halal food. ?It's that good. ?Sometimes I wish I lived in NYC just so I can get on the subway and get a plate... Combo plate for me with plenty of white sauce and a little bit of red sauce. ?If you are brave and want to "Man vs. Food" it, get plenty of red sauce and try to finish all your food. ?But be warned, it kills the flavor.
When ever I think of New York City, one of things that first comes to mind is chicken and rice in 53rd and 6th! There's no other place like this and no other food like this. I don't know how to explain it but it satisfies every part of your hunger and craving. There's always a line at this vendor but there's a reason why! The line wait isn't so bad since the guys at the vendor work pretty fast. I order the chicken while my sister got chicken and lamb. The white sauce is probably the kicker. You must have it with white sauce. I usually get it separate and mix it on my own. They usually mix the dish with the white sauce, so if you want it separate, be sure to let them know right away. The hot sauce is SPICY. I would NOT recommend mixing the entire hot sauce into the dish. It really really spicy. I love spicy food but this is way over the top. So if you want some spice, I would dip the fork into the sauce and then eat it with the chicken and rice. The food is pretty cheap too. My chicken and rice with a bottle of water was only $7. You can't beat that. Good Halal food for that good of a price? Its a must get. I would DEFINITELY try to come back to get some chicken and rice when ever I'm in the area again.
You know the Simpsons episode where the go to NYC and Homer gets offered Khlav Kalash? ?For the uninitiated: youtube.com/watch?v=Skur? The halal cart at 53rd and 6th doesn't sell Khlav Kalash but they make a mean combo platter of rice, chicken, lamb, and lettuce. ?For six bucks, you get enough food for two people. ?It's a challenge to get the proper mix of red and white sauce - I've recently discovered a love of spicy food so these days I'm doing full red sauce and half a container of white sauce and then mixing everything together to get the flavors just right. ? I don't have a whole lot to add to the other THOUSAND plus reviews for this cart - it's as good as everyone says and if you're in the area (even if you're 20-30 blocks away, it's definitely worth swinging by).
It was Christmas Eve, and we spent 30 minutes waiting in line for a chicken platter. That is what the holidays are for! It was about 32 degrees outside and there was a line of 30 people waiting in front of us. Because of that, we knew this place had to be legit. We got the chicken platter which consisted of chicken, rice, and pita bread. It comes with veggies, but we aren't veg lovers. It's served immediately and piping. hot. There is not a seating area for it except for benches and random seating around the surrounding buildings. I didn't find anything spectacular about it. I thought their chicken was a bit rubbery and the rice was overcooked. There were some bites every now and then that was great, but it was inconsistent. I do think $6 is a good deal for it, but I'm not sure I would wait 30 minutes in the cold for it.
To this day, I still don't know how my friends and I were able to make the journey here and wait in the long line. But it was so worth it. I don't know if our somewhat intoxicated state had anything to do with it, but the chicken and rice plate was delicious. I am not sure how it would taste during the daytime and in a sober state of mind. Read other reviews for that. My friends kept mentioning this "chicken and rice" place that we MUST go to. As a non-native New Yorker, I had no idea what they were talking about, but apparently every other NYC native knows about this place. Upon arriving at midnight (which is still considered early according to my friends), we already saw a long line, but it went quickly. We each got one plate for ourselves (why would you even think of sharing this?!?), which consisted of a decent-sized tin bowl that was half rice and half chicken and a few pita bread slices on top. My friend told me that it was the white sauce, or what I call "crack sauce", ?that made it taste ten times better and I followed his lead by putting it all over the plate. I don't know what's in it and what it's made of, but it sure was addicting. The creaminess of the sauce blended well with the slight oiliness and richness of the rice and chicken. The chicken and rice place certainly isn't a culinary masterpiece, but for NY street food that attracts a large crowd even at midnight (and even later from what I hear), you certainly can't go wrong. I recommend this place on your next drunk food adventure.
This is the NY version of an LA late night carne asada nachos run... those of you in SoCal.... know what i mean?! it's good... no doubt... but i went in the winter so by the time you grab it and get home to eat, it's cold! yikes! we decided to eat it on the spot... BEWARE! the hot sauce is MUY PICANTE! be careful. some of you light weights may need some prilosec afterwords to assist with the drainage.... most definitely worth the late night trip!
The ratings do not lie, this place is absolutely amazing. Everyone else did a great job of describing what they serve, so I'm just going to put it into perspective: I was in New York for 2 days, I ate her 3 times.
Best food cart ever. You will know once you get there. Get the $6 Chicken and Rice Platter, and add your white sauce. You will not be disappointed. Note: My BF will go out in the middle of the night to get this, I don't know if I should be worried. Ps=Generous portion so you an save it for breakfast, lunch or dinner the next day. Saute it with some fresh veggies (mushroom, broccoli, etc) and it will taste like a 6+ star!!
A group of Swedish tourists asked me where I would eat if I could go anywhere in the city. It didn't take long for a smile to form on my face as I recalled the taste sensation that is produced on this cart nightly. This halal cart blows any other street meat away. The line can seem daunting at first but trust: it moves fast and it's well worth the wait. For 6 bucks you can have the greatest chicken and rice (or lamb and rice or both with rice) ever cooked on a corner. The white sauce= perfection. Dot with red sauce at your own risk. I used to get out of bed and trek from queens and now Brooklyn at ungodly hours just to satisfy this craving. And they never disappoint.
Often imitated but never duplicated. Make sure they're the dudes wearing the yellow SWEATERS otherwise they're not the real deal! We tried a different halal cart on the opposite street corner and it just didn't taste the same. The flavor of the rice was off and the consistency of the chicken just wasn't doing it for me. The lines are almost always massively long everytime I've gone. My usual: Chicken over rice. No salad, no white sauce. Pack on the red hot sauce!
$5 for a little taste of heaven. Lamb or chicken? Difficult choice, but I ended up choosing the chicken. I believe the lamb is $6. In this amazing deal, you also get a good amount of spiced rice, pita, fresh lettuce and tomatoes. As you're waiting in the very long line to make your order, you'll pass by a little area of the truck that has a bunch of individually portioned sauces (spicy and the white sauce). I grabbed one of each since everyone in front of me was! But be careful, the red spicy sauce is packaged in a very small container, but for good reason. A little of that sauce really goes a long way. hot hot hot! I felt like such a noob when I finally got to order because I was hoping that there would be signs saying what they have, but there are only two options as previously stated. I remember my friend telling me the chicken and rice is a must, so that's exactly what I ordered, "Chicken and Rice please!" I should've gotten the half and half, but I guess that will have to wait until I'm in New York again. Because of this street cart alone, I'm willing to say that street food in NY trumps those in LA. LA has great street food, but it's just so expensive for such small portions! NY street food FTW. i bow down to you, 53rd and 6th Halal Cart.
It was good, but not great. I give 4 stars because it's a great value for the plate. Can't beat a whole plate of lamb, chicken and rice for $6!!!
MY FIRST VISIT TO NY - - - Goal !! I finally got to experience the food coma from the famous Halal Carts. ?But this cart in particular IS WELL WORTH THE WAIT for their fresh chicken gyros !! ?It's the sauce !! ?I prefer the red (hot) sauce more than the weird white sauce. ?But I think that's because I'm immuned to eating spicy food all the time. ?My friend recommended this late night cart @ the corner of E. 53rd and 6th. ?Luckily, the hotel I stayed at was nearby on E. 50th and lexington and luckily we are females and got to cut in line on night #2 which speeded up the process by an hour. ?My friends raided that cart 3 nights in a row during the hours of 1am-3am... ?REAL talk... it's rare that i'd grub on the same thing in 3 consecutive nights. i agree with the last review... someone needs to invest in some of these carts and push em over here to cali - from the BAY to LA :)
I was in New York from Tuesday thru Sunday last week and every night on the dot the line at the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart extended half a block. ?The first night I was there, I didn't have it though because I just spent $30 on a sandwich at the Stage Deli (tasty but for the price it was a rip!). ?Anyways, I remember walking by the cart, amazed by the line, but what kept my attention were the patrons. ?After purchasing their food, the Cart's patrons immediately busted out their forks and scarfed down their gyro and chicken platters. These people devoured their food as though they hadn't eaten in days. ?It left me wondering, 'what is so great about this food?' ?Luckily my hotel was right across the street from the cart, so the next time I swung by and purchased my $6 (lovely price) gyro platter and I must say it was damn good. ?I like my dishes spicy, so I added some of the hot sauce. ?Luckily I only put a dab in because man was that hot sauce potent. ?If you are in NYC, waiting in line is worth it. ?It goes by pretty fast. ?Warning for all you white meat lovers, my cousin said that the chicken platter was only 'ok' because they use dark meat. ?I loved my gyro plate though.
incredible overrated place. I have never seen pieces of meat come in rectangle blocks before, with this being said nothing could replace a real halal meal with fresh vegetables and actual pieces of meat coming from an actual shawarma rotisserie which this place does not offer. Sauce was halfway decent, incredible rich yogurt sauce, careful of the hot sauce though. The stuff is intense
First off, I think it'd be kind of epic to own something which is basically referred to as wherever its location may be. Second, get your cash out. Six bucks is enough. Also, portions are pretty big. Can probably split a plate with a friend if need be. Third, order the lamb & chicken over rice with white sauce and maybe a teaspoon of red sauce. It comes with some pita on top as well. Mix well. Find a seat. Dig in, nom away.
this really hits the spot. i know it's overrated but it is so delish!! so worth the six bucks. the red sauce is freaking spicy but the white sauce balances it well. if you're in New York, you must try this!! *beware!! there are many fakes, make sure you find the legit one.
SO DELICIOUS!! ? Went to NY for the first time and was amazed at how much GREAT food there was everywhere! But what was even more amazing was this little Halal cart that provided mouth-watering food for only like $6 (and the plates are big!). Adding a little touch of the white sauce and the spicy sauce (very spicy) made it complete :) if you want to get the best of the street food experience, visit this spot and be prepared for a line. ? i wish san francisco was full of street food vendors like nyc!
Maybe I didn't have enough to drink before enjoying NYC's most famous landmark to it's fullest, but the dehydration I had next morning makes that doubtful. Personally, I found chicken and rice to be mostly just hype and everyone you see up there and not actually the food itself. After grabbing a cab up, we waited in line. The wait itself wasn't too bad. It seems like half of New York is looking to grab a chicken and rice fix at the late hours and you get some interesting characters. The line moves quick since they have it all down to a streamlined process. For 6 bucks you get a tin filled with a boatload of food: meat (finely chopped chicken and/or gyro meat), jasmine rice, a couple pieces of pita, and a small amount of iceberg lettuce. As a survivor of various college diets such as the "hot pocket diet", the "Domino's diet" and the "lots of beer diet", I don't underplay any sort of vegetation that reaches my body. I ended up smothering everything with white sauce and some hot sauce before we got our seats. After mixing it all up and eating a bit, I realized the small bits that didn't get a generous coating of white sauce ended up lacking flavor and slightly dry. Heading back to get more sauce, this time instead of hot sauce I grabbed bbq sauce by accident. It adds good flavor too. I dunno. I wish the meat was at least slightly seasoned. I guess it's the downfall to all the hype; to keep output high enough to feed the drunken masses, there has to be a drop in quality. A couple friends confirmed my thoughts noting that it used to be much better before it's fame grew to be larger than that of the Statue of Liberty. Realistically it shouldn't be called halal cart, it should be called white sauce cart; too bad that would make it sound a bit too sexual.
Friends of mine took me here tonight. I wasn't planning on eating much (I had a full dinner just 3 hours before at Nizza)...they ordered a combo for me. $6 got me a ton of rice, chicken, lamb, salad along with spicy sauce and some sort of ranch flavored white sauce. I ate almost the entire thing. I am SUCH A PIG! But it was ABSOLUTELY PHENOMENAL! And only $6 for a ton of food. It could have been 2 meals. Really. It's that much food.
Amazing. I would eat this for breakfast, lunch and dinner if I could. White sauce is fantastic, and watch out for the spicy sauce- it's no joke.
Came here again and it was as good as the first time. ?How can a little cart get such a HUGE line at any tim of the day? ?I got the lamb and chicken mix but definitly get the lamb on rice. ?Heavenly and to die for. ?My mouth is watering just writing this! ?This is one of the food gems in NYC.
i ended up on her on accident. i promise, it wasnt the 1300+ reviews. while wandering around downtown, i was looking for something quick and cheap to eat so i logged on to my trusty yelp app, searched nearby and this gem appeared. of course, the reviews helped but the sheer fact it was 2 blocks away made it an easy decision. when i got there, the line was about 30 deep. "hyped" was my first impression, but was willing to wait and check it out. i ordered the mixed meat over rice bowl and this thing was HUGE. and only 6$! the meat was seasoned perfectly, i ordered extra sauce (copied the guy in front of me, ha) and it hit the spot. i walked it to times square where they ?were filming a cooking show and enjoyed my meal. i even had leftovers that i ate right before dinner and was good as ever. 5 stars for these guys, sooooooo gooood.
If I had been shwasted, this greasy, salty hot mess would have been good. Alas, I was not, and so my sober taste buds nearly dried out from all the sodium. And the taziki sauce was gross. Like mayo-all-up-in-here gross. BF and I shared a combination platter, and asked for no lettuce per the advice of a regular customer. We thought that by asking for less lettuce we would get more meat or rice...I think we did, but some greens would have been a nice refresher in retrospect! But for six bucks and a fast moving line, you get what you get and so I shouldn't be throwing a sober fit.
That night I went to Ocean Grill (very fancy schmancy) and came back to the hotel STUFFED! Sister went shopping and brought back this for me. ?Can I repeat I was stuffed? "WTF, are you serious? Why did you get this?! I can't eat anymore" "This place is famous for being delicious" "It's going to get wasted..." ....35 min later.....FINISHED. ?not a scrap of chicken, lamb, or rice was left. ?This place summoned my inner fatass...yearning to come out for a worthy cause.
The fact that a street meat cart has 800 reviews and 4.5 stars is testament in itself. You need to go here. Also you should be careful with the red sauce, I have them give me extra extra red sauce and I get to the point of almost not being able to finish it, which is a pretty big thing since I can eat a dozen jalapenos without breaking a sweat.
You haven't had halal cart food until you've gone to the 53rd & 6th street one. ?They're only there from 7pm-4am. ?Lines can sometimes be ridiculously long especially after a night of partying, but moves fairly quickly. Minus 1/2 star because the price went up from $5 to $6, but there is a generous amount of food for $6. ?I can have a plate for lunch and dinner. I recommend the combo plate (chicken & lamb). ?The lamb doesn't even taste like lamb. They have self-serve white sauce and hot sauce on the side. I loved the halal cart food so much that my friend and I went 3 nights in a row and ordered 2 extra plates for each of us to take home with us to the bay.
For $6, the portions here are extremely generous (they even include bits of pita bread). While I can agree that there ARE a few halal carts out there that trump this place in terms of taste (like the halal guy outside of MSG; 5-star rating halal), I'd rate this cart 4 stars because of its consistency. Also, for you newbies, they have another cart across the street on the adjacent corner so you can skip the disgusting wait! Same owner, same company; you can tell by the yellow uniforms that they've got on. For awhile, I began to think that 53rd and 6th was a bit hyped up as well... It's definitely good, but not the best and tastiest in Manhattan. But it's not until you've had some BAD halal that you can truly learn to appreciate how consistently good 53rd and 6th's halal is. No, seriously. Go to the wrong cart just a block or two over and you'll be sorry you even thought any less of 53rd and 6th. I can speak from personal experience. Unaware of the fact that this cart opens up before 6pm, my boyfriend and I decided to get some halal from an arbitrary cart on 51st St. Then, we walked a block over to see the 53rd and 6th guys wearing their yellow uniform. What did we decide to do? Get another order of halal from these guys, of course! So we performed the ultimate taste test... and compared to the average halal stand, this place OWNS! My recommendation: Skip the chicken and rice and go for the lamb. The lamb is tender, juicier and way more flavorful. Also, be sure to stay away from the hot sauce. I once made the rookie mistake of dousing my whole order with it and I had to throw all of it out after 2 bites, because I just couldn't stomach it.
Honestly, i ate so much food on this new york trip which i will review later, but this halal cart was the best place i ate at all week! ha! for 6 bucks u get rice, lettuce and your choice of meat with some delish white sauce. Add some red sauce if youre feeling spicy and youre good to go! only con is the wait..good lord we waited for a good 45 mins in the cold god forsaken NY weather..but it was worth it!!
This was the best of my dining experiences in new York this weekend. If you are staying at the Hilton, then this is an absolute must! You won't be disappointed. And the hot sauce is REALLY hot!!!!
I love me some street meat. This Halal Cart is not to be missed. The combo plate Chicken and Lamb was all that. What they do right as other carts don't is the lack of gristle and weird chewy stuff. The new MoMA is across the street and I had a celeb sighting here. the main dude the one that was tied to the mattress from "The Hangover" was in the area.
Chicken/Lamb Rice Combo was awesome. ?Covered it in the white sauce, BBQ sauce, and a couple drops of hot sauce. ?They don't kid around when they say HOT sauce. ?Shit is HOT FIYAH! ? You know you are in the right spot when all the cabbies know where it is and there is a huge line for the cart. ?This spot is legit! GET SOME!
Chicken,lamb and rice is good until you get diarrhea. We tried it twice same results... tastes good though.
I tried to come here two nights ago and unknowingly ended up at the one across the street. I read Joe S.'s review (which is funny and accurate) and saw that "the cart on the same side as the Hilton Hotel is NOT the same". No wonder why I was disappointed! ANYWAY, the chicken and rice (well the combo dish) is the bomb (at THIS cart). I love it. And so do hungry nightlifers of NYC and NJ. So worth the trip and heart burn.
indeed, there's halal carts everywhere around nyc. im not so sure what makes this place so famous. i tried their famous chicken over rice and to be honest it was good and filling, but it wasn't anything amazing. the white sauce is pretty good, but you kind of HAVE to add it to make the food taste good. or else, it actually tastes kinda dry. the red sauce is a little too spicy for my palette. overall, it's cheap and you definitely get what you're paying for, i just don't think it's that exceptional. although, i am giving them the bonus point for how quickly they can make the food. it's like speed of lightening.
This place is worth flying out to from CALifornia. You have not been to New York unless you have tried this place.
I work in an office on 53rd ?and after a few months here, I've noticed that this place has pretty much the same exact food as the famous guys across the street. ?Cheap, fast, tasty halal food, and lots of it. ?The only glaring difference between the two carts in my opinion is the long line of tourists. I usually go with the lamb/chicken combo, white sauce + extra red sauce. ?Be forewarned, the red sauce is actually pretty hot. ?Not habenero hot, but much hotter than say, sri lacha. ?I love spicy food so I can brave the extra red, but I wouldn't suggest it if you're not a complete tongue masochist like I am.
When you're in the mood for one of these, there is no substitute. For just 6 bucks you can have yourself one hell of a platter. I get the combo every time and it never fails. Beware of the hot sauce; it will literally set your mouth on fire after just one drop. Also, don't find yourself at the wrong one! They just aren't the same. Opens at 7pm, 53rd and 6th, the one with the long line on the south east corner near the water structure. Enjoy!
How did I miss writing review for this place which is every New Yorker's fav. I always take the combo here with extra spicy sauce and absolutely love it. I wish I can eat at this place everyday.
Great food for the best price in New York. ?Amazing!
Cheap and good drunk food, period. From the other reviews you got a pretty good gist of how it is late at night. White sauce is awesome, be CAREFUL of the hot sauce, it's more potent than you think. Can't imagine eating this stuff sober though. If you're not a big fan of waiting 30min in a fat line while you're starving, there is a cart on 7th ave that tastes pretty much the same and it's for the same price (except without the wait). This is my go-to drunk spot when I'm in midtown. otherwsie it's criff dog in st. marks or artichoke in meat packing
It's a party in your mouth. $6 chicken and rice at 3am, drunk, with friends or alone.. Can't go wrong on this one! Beware though: do NOT eat when sober. You can feel all the cholesterol. It made me dizzy!! Good only when you've had some to drink!!
i love this place. ?i go to bed dreaming about it and hating the fact that i don't live in nyc anymore. ?why can't sf have any amazing halal carts?!?!? ?when i lived in nyc, my friends and i would walk 50+ blocks from downtown just to eat this or cab all the way up to 53rd street at 4am just to stand in a long line around the corner. ?worth all the effort and wait!
What I would do for a combo platter drenched in white sauce right now....with extra pita bread (only $1)...sprinkled with just enough red sauce... (yelp.com/user_local_phot?) The Halal Cart is probably THE BEST thing I ate during my 12 days in New York (and believe me...I ate A LOT). I ordered the combination plate--half lamb, half chicken served with lettuce and a bed of rice. It doesn't sound amazing... but it really is.... And the best part is, its only $6 and the portions are huge! Chicken&rice is a MUST EAT if you're visiting NYC or fortunate enough to live in the City.
It's the Best Halal in NYC. period.
There's nothing I could say that hasn't already been said here, just contributing my vote. The best in the city.
People were definitely not kidding when they said lamb and rice here was amazing!!! My last trip to NY, I stopped by for lunch!!! Phew I didn't catch the crazy lines...I guess 4pm on a Friday afternoon is a good time to go!!!! You get a huge foil container of lamb and rice with white sauce for about 6 bucks and omg this is heaven to eat!! mix the Tabasco sauce with the rice and lamb and just watch the taste just caramelize in your mouth!!! I can't wait to go back and get some more!!! Best food to get for being on a budget :)
This Halal cart is right outside the Hilton and holy crap was there a line of drunks waiting for their fix. I waited till the line died down and stepped up to order you just tell them if you want combo or only one kind of meat. It comes with pita and rice on the bottom. Make sure you use the white sauce and hot sauce too! But man this is a TON of food for 6 bucks that 3 people could probably share. Let's face it though, you're going to be lit up and you will eat it all yourself so don't feel too bad. If you see one of these, run towards it. You will not be sorry.
What is this magical white sauce? It has the same texture as regular gravy but it is so tasty!! ?If you get the chicken rice, you get about a pound and a half worth of awesomeness, nicely seasoned chicken, rice, with a side of pita bread. This is probably the best bang for the buck anywhere. In addition to that, the mysterious white sauce; just paint a nice layer on top over everything. Please be sure to bring exact change. One thing to note, there is a panhandler that "works" the long line every night; proceed with caution.
nearly 1,000 reviews and almost 5 stars?? that's impressive. now, there's much unecessary confusion to this halal cart and which is the "correct" one. ?i'm still not sure if i ate at the right one or not. the website says they're only there from 730pm till 4am. however someone told me just to look for the yellow bags. i ate there at 4pm or so(there's two at opposite corners, we went to the one with the yellow bags). ?this person's blog confirmed that story. ?midtownlunch.com/2007/11? even with all this confusion, the food was awesome, so even if it wasn't the right one, i don't care. i'm betting that if i do go during the correct hours, it'll taste exactly the same.
"Hot sauce? Psssh, people think Tobasco sauce is hot, so this must be about the same." This was the thought process that went through my head when my friends warned me about the hot sauce. Any pride I felt in being able to handle extremely spicy foods due to my Indian upbringing went out as quickly as the 3rd or 4th bite into my food. And never have I been so glad to look like an idiot, because the food was so amazing that I didn't care. I mean eventually, my body stopped sweating, and I felt like I could breathe again, and then I was thinking "wow, this is great!" My first experience with Chicken/Lamb and Rice was at some food carts in Philly, and I thoroughly enjoyed them, but since having the full blown awesomeness of the NYC Halal Cart, I feel sad every time I am craving lamb and rice, and I have only the Philly version available. $6.00 for meat loaded goodness with rice, bread, and salad (although a lot of people opt out on the salad; I personally think it works well with everything else in there). Word of warning: load up on the mysterious white sauce, add just a few squirts of the hot sauce. Unless you can't handle spicy food at all, then don't add any hot sauce or you will probably be living in the bathroom the next day. My cousins and I drove into the city just for this, and I am so glad we did. Now I keep trying to find excuses to go back for this amongst other things. The line wasn't as long as I thought it would be either, which was great.
So I am proudly the 1000th reviewer, what can I say, I feel a sense of responsibility, it's that good! I think that the God of food carts called these guys up and said: "go to earth and do a street cart, the way it was always supposed to be" As so they did Wheather you go for the chicken or beef, it does not matter, both yummilishous. Part of the show, when you get close enough to the cart, you can watch them pile up the chiken on one side and then slowly move it to the other. One guy does the chicken, the other prepares the rice on the plates, the other is warming the pita, the other is refilling the white sauce and red sauce container, the other is tending the rice and the last one handles the cash and bagging. It is all a carefully crafted machine that runs spotlessly. When the chicken is about to transfer from the 'cooking' side to the 'cooked' side, there is a natural break, and a few of the guys take their 3 minute well deserved rest. Then effortlessly as the moving procedure is over the ballad starts, in a prefect rhythm and everybody dances again. The staff as they are working they are snacking on lays chips, nicely sharing the bag amongst them, classic! The white and red sauce are amazing and they know that, so they are generous, very generous with it. You want more, sure why not, after all they are here to please. With a line that is never shorter than half a block at best it is a phenomenon, not just a street cart. Oh and in case you didn't know, it's all for $6. Amazing!
I will jump onto the heap of positive reviews for the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. I am someone who scoffs at the spicyness of things and then quickly gets his comeuppance in the forms of coughing and hiccups. The spicy sauce here is No F'n Joke. However, that shouldn't stop you from putting as much on as you possibly can. Tempered with an equal amount of white sauce and you are in Halal Heaven. Get the combo plate, pour that sauce on, find a comfortable street corner and dig in.
I stayed in a hotel just across the street from this cart while I was in NY for a conference. Generally, I like to eat at as many different restaurants as I can to experience the different foods and neighbourhoods when I'm traveling. However... after one late night and not much energy to hunt down a new restaurant I tried "the street meat" -- after all, with a lineup that long consistently night after night, there must be something good about it. It was good. Really good. Really, really good. And I kept eating there. :)
Pretty much I went to New York on a food tour, my wife and I dined at 19 restaurants in the span of 3 days. We stopped by this cart on a friends suggestion. The line was around the block... anytime I see a place that busy it has to be damn good. What is this stuff? It's chicken, lamb, rice, with some spicy sauce, and liquid crack. I didn't even drink that night, I can only imagine how this tastes after I have a few Coors Lights in me :) Hands down the most talked about meal from my trip to NY, I always recommend this place.. I'm mean it has over 1000 yelps and it's a street cart! Some of these comments are absolutely hilarious! "This is the best food I have ever eaten! ?Since I discovered this place, I have eaten here at least 50% of the week. - Min P." Min you're probably going need to get your colon checked. They say too much of a good thing can be bad too :) "Soooooo im not a big street meat fan, it can be kinda gross. However, if your going to eat street meat you should def eat it from this cart. It is the best option in the city." - Dan M. Dan why'd you give it 3 stars? Obviously you think it's the best in the city. That's like me going to French Laundry and saying. I don't really like French Food, but this is the best place to eat in the North America so I'll give it 3 stars.
53rd and 6th Halal Cart aka Platters is an inspiration to me. Some days I like to day dream about what kind of food I can cook from a cart/truck so people will wait in line til 4 am to buy my food and I can be making 6 figures in cash. I guess until i come up with my million dollar idea i'll just stick to my full time job. It's true that this is not the healthiest food for you but sometimes you just have to live on the edge. The line is usually long but it moves pretty quickly. And obviously they only take cash. But for $6 you get a full and satisfying meal. ?I personally prefer to the lamb but you can get chicken or a mix of both. ?If you ask nicely they will sometimes give you extra pita. ?The rice and meat are really flavorful and the pita is soft and doughy. Yummm. SO good! Word of caution: don't confuse the hot sauce with BBQ sauce. It is the craziest hot sauce i've ever tasted in my life and i love spicy food.
chicken rice with white sauce is simply the best! the perfect combination of flavorful rice, side of fresh lettuce, pita, and tender juicy meat all drenched in addictive white sauce over top for 6 bucks! ? it almost always has a line any time of the day but i always try to walk here even though i'm many many blocks away--it's that good! ?i hate lamb and never eat it but the lamb here doesn't have the typical "lamb" smell/taste and was actually good/edible even for me! ?the hot sauce's a little too spicy for me but a bit is still awesome. best food/ value. there are lots of vendors in the general vicinity so make sure you get the right cart
Again! THE halel cart most famous in times square. DO IT!!! HALF CHICKEN/HALF LAMB OVER RICE. DRENCH THE WHITE SAUCE. DRIBBLE THE SPICY SAUCE. MIX. DROOL. DEVOUR. SIGH.
$6 huge combo platter (lamb and chicken) over rice with white sauce and hot sauce = twu wuv. We were staying at the Hilton, so my coworker's room overlooked the halal cart spot. Don't be fooled by the other carts that are there during the day. They set up at 7pm and are pretty much ready at 7:30. The line forms at around 7pm, so if you hANGRY, get in line or create the line if there isn't one. I was tempted to get up at 3:45am to pick up a plate to-go for the plane ride back to SF. Imagine the jealousy that would ensue on that 6 hour flight. HAHA. I wish we had a halal cart in SF. :(
I waited 15 minutes in the hot August sun for a lamb gyro at lunch this week........ the wait was totally worth it!! I skipped the red spicy sauce, but asked for extra white sauce, which was delicious. I will definitely be back!
For a MORE EXTENSIVE REVIEW, Visit my blog! backstreats.com/2010/09/? We went to the cart that resides on the southeast corner of 53rd and Sixth Ave. The menu is very simple. It is either a platter or sandwich wrap with a choice of gyro meat, chicken or both. ? I opted for the chicken platter because the rice looked too good to pass up. I eagerly waited in line and watched my cart server work magic with the spatulas he was wielding. In typical New York fashion, he was speedy to place the hot chicken on a bed of rice and iceberg lettuce in a round tin. With his spatula he cut two pieces of pita and placed them on top. ?The smell wafting from the grills made my stomach dance a jig and I almost didn't hear what his partner asked. "White sauce?" "Huh?" He points to a bottle with a smirk. Referred to as "crack sauce" from other frequenters of the cart, I knew that this was the thing that made this platter what it was. I nodded vigorously. "Hot sauce?" "HELLS YEAH!" He gives me a handful of each sauce and wraps the food in a yellow plastic bag in one swoop. Magic. Verdict? Of course the original couldn't be beat! The chicken and rice was definitely seasoned way better at the original stand. Although, I would say that the chicken at the impostor's stand was slightly more moist. But I would attribute it to the impostor having to always cook new batches faster than the original due to the long lines. Bastards..." For more, please visit backstreats.com
For this one you must know the tricks of the trade: 1. The cart is only there from 7pm to 4am. The other carts during the day are not the real deal. 2. Use tons of white sauce and a bit of red sauce (the red sauce is very hot). The sauces are located no the side of the cart so you can get more than what they actually give you. 3. A ton of food so I would recommend sharing if you are with someone.
Delicious!!! The combo plate (chicken & lamb) is to die for. But don't forget to add the white sauce and a tad of hot sauce. The line is long but it moves quick! Definitely worth the wait. Will def be back for this the next time I'm in NYC!
Wow, where do I even start? This chicken n rice has changed my life forever... ( flashbacks...) Needless to say this is for a distinct delicious reason a necessary new york experience. If you live in New York , you probably know its genius, if you don't then throw your money is the man's hand and proudly say "CHICKEN N RICE!"( or lamb n rice, depending on what your into). WARNING: DO NOT IRRITATE THE CHICKEN N RICE MEN with questions of extra sauce , they will get snappy! Your best hope is extra little jars for home. Ive come back for seconds on sauce and it can get dangerous. Anyway , enjoy the chicken n rice! P.S. does anyone know what's in the sauce?
No lines on Sun night FTW! Didn't have to pay the dude on the side an extra $10 to expedite my order! The best Halal on the block and the best one I've had thus far!
I really really miss 53rd......I'm from NYC but I got to school in California. I get chicken and rice. PEOPLE! If you love food that is perfectly seasoned, get 53rd!
Amazing food and only $5 for lunch and $6 for dinner. ?I prefer the gyro on rice over the combo, but its all good. ?Be forwarned that the hot sauce is really spicy. ?The white sauce has some kick too, so I find it better to get the sauce in to go containers and then add my own, and I like food spicy. The best thing you can eat for under $6 in Manhattan,
One of best food cart options in midtown. ?The hot sauce is good and really hot!
Afforadable goodness! ? I always order the rice plate with lamb and chicken for $6. ?It's hard to explain. ?It's just damn good and when I'm craving it, no matter how far or late it is, I always go and get it. ?So here are some hints about this cart if you plan on giving it a try. - Line looks long, but moves really fast. The longest you'll wait is 45 minutes. -Order either combo or chicken (rice dish). ?It's easier to handle. -If there's a lot of you, only have one person order and don't stand near him/her because if you do, they wont give you a lid or a bag for your platter. -Don't expect to have a place to sit down to eat. Most people just stand or sit on the bench if there's room. ?I sat there once and a mice pop-up behind me so I never did again. -If you're driving there, find proper parking because now that this place causes so much traffic, there are always undercover cops around... ready to give you a ticket. -Oh yeah... the hot sauce is EXTREMEMLY hot... eat with caution. ?LoL I give this place four stars... if there was a place to sit, then I'd give it a 5.
For $5, you are literally KING at this Halal cart. By far, the best tasting food off of any Halal cart in the city. The meat, for once, doesn't taste as if it has been rubbed on the street several times before being served. The sauces are even better than the other carts offer, spicier, sweeter, just superb to any other Halal cart in NYC. And for $5, it's great not to be served gross food.
I find it pretty crazy that so many people know about this little food cart serving "chicken & rice" on a street corner. ?And apparently people love it so much that others have created imitation carts serving similar foods! ? We went on a Saturday night around 3am and the line was SO LONG. ?I can't believe so many people are willing to wait in line in the freezing cold. ?Seems like it would be more ideal in the summertime. ?Regardless, we waited, and got the combo plate with lamb and chicken. ?Since no one lived around that area, we ended up huddling up on the benches nearby and scarfing our long awaited food. ?I don't know why people call it "chicken and rice". ?I preferred the lamb part of the combo much more. ? FYI- that red hot sauce is SO spicy. ?My mouth was seriously on fire, no joke. ?Don't be a hero.
I, unfortunately, am located in Chicago, the midwest where practically nothing cool ever happens. However, I am blessed to have such awesome friends in New York that I try to visit as much as I can. I never fail to visit every possible Halal cart--this one in particular. I accidentally discovered it a few years ago on my way to Central Park. My boyfriend and I were hungry and needed a quick and cheap fix and how can one resist these street vendors despite how sketchy they look?! I know I can't. Anyway, I can't believe that this place is up for yelping! First and foremost, always go with the chicken and lamb over rice topped with hot sauce and that white creamy sauce that puts this order to the top. Unlike my likely nature to describe every plate's flavor and awesomeness, I'm out of words for this one. It is simply plain awesome and all of the ingredients, though not a lot, blend so well together. Who would have known that throwing some spiced meat on the grill over rice and top with hot and white sauce could possibly be one of the best things you'll ever have. I wish we had street vendors like this in Chicago. Alas, I have to make a 12 hours hike to get to this. Anyway, I just wanted to give these guys my love. Oh, $6 per order that easily fills up two people won't break your wallet either.
This may be the closest anyone has come to rivaling the dreaded "paper or plastic" dilemma. ?The question that this popular halal cart poses, however, is "chicken or lamb". ?Not much of a variety, but who needs it when the food is this good?? ?For only $6 you get a generous amount of turmeric-spiced rice, pita, lettuce, tomato, and your choice of meat. ?Don't forget to hit up the self-serve sauce station!
Chicken and Lamb with Rice, to go *chomp, chomp chomp* snifffff...so good *chomp, chomp chomp* sniff, sniff...mmmuuuhhh...spiithy... *scrape, scrape, scrape* *burp* . . . . . . Chicken and Lamb with Rice, to go.
Remember these 5 steps when you go to the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart: H ave the combo platter - chicken, lamb, lettuce, rice, and pita bread. A lways add loads of white sauce. L eave the red hot sauce to the professionals, but at least sample it. A fter ordering, go to the drink cart along 6th Ave - esp if you get the red sauce. L astly, find a spot and chow down! ? It's not like this Halal cart needs another review - especially from another Californian (well... native Californian), but hell... I can't restrain myself. I don't know how I didn't go here while I worked 1 block away last summer, but I'm very disappointed in myself that I lost out on a whole summer of potential 53rd and 6th Halal Cart goodness. Be sure that you're going after 7pm. Before then, it's run by some knockoff guys and the food is not as good. Boo to fakes! As I've been told, the cart at 52nd and 6th is run by the same guys who do up some extra cooking. I've even watched them bring some of the meat over to the 53rd street cart. It's to help them keep from running out - do you see that ridiculous line?
Super cheap, super good and waaay too much food for just one person or sitting. Really nothing else to say, except make sure you go when the weather is nice, you'll be in line for a while.
What makes this plate so good is the rice and sauce! The spicy sauce and the white sauce mix and then add it to the rice! YUM! One of a kind place. You can't get it here in Dallas, TX. I miss NY because of this Halal Cart! SImple and delicious. A lot of food for a good price. My boyfriend and I finish one place. Two plates is just too much. Love it!
I came here with my wife after hearing about the rave reviews from her coworkers. ?I'm usually skeptical whenever a food establishment is over-hyped. ?I waited patiently on line for about half an hour. ?I ordered the lamb and chicken over rice. ?The food had generous amounts of hot and white sauce. ?When I took my first bite I knew that there is something unique about this food. ?Maybe it was laced with some illegal substance, but I didn't care and proceeded to wolf down the food. ?My only regret was that I didn't get a second helping. ?I'm definitely going back in the near future. ?Just writing this review is making me hungry!!
After seeing the HUGE line in this cart for years and years, me and my friend decided to tough it up and see what all the fuzz is about. After meeting some nice people in the line and learning it has over 1500 reviews on Yelp, I couldn't wait to get my hands on the deliciousness that is this Halal cart. I tried both the gyro lamb sandwich (which is my favorite) and their claim to fame, the combo-rice plate, and my tummy was wildly satisfied. In conclusion, if you are going to eat off a cart, get the best.
Late night drunk food at its best! There is something about being in the city late at night, drunk or tipsy that sparks the conversation, the idea, the topic that always begins with..."I'm madd hungry...Are you guys hungry??hmmm... How about... CHICKEN AND RICE???" This is exactly how every drunken night in NYC turns out. I don't blame everyone though, this place really serves some good chicken and rice! There is a difference, like all restaurants, between this cart and the many other carts you can find in NYC. I absolutely hate it when people say so many things are the same, especially when it comes to franchised restaurants but that is another story. Back to the important things about this cart. This place is KNOWN for chicken and rice. We don't say, hey, let's go to 53rd and 6th halal cart. We say who wants some chicken and rice! That item has been associated with this cart which is a pro and a con. It's a pro because it sorta sends out that message of how good the chicken and rice is, but it's a con because people may not even realize that the lamb that they serve is also reealllllyy GOOOODDD. I often order the combo because you get half chicken and half lamb, which satisfies my hungry and taste for both meats. The most IMPORTANT thing to remember is to add that white sauce though. Without it the dish becomes dry and somewhat forgettable. It's not that the white sauce is that good, but the white sauce bring everything together perfectly. Because of the way the meat is prepared, the texture and flavor of the rice they use. All this for $6!!! That's another reason we are more inclined want chicken and rice because this is were you get the most bang for your buck. TAKE HOME TIP! Alright, you either couldn't finish all your chicken and rice or decided it take some home to eat tomorrow. The question is what is the best way to reheat you chicken and rice? Microwave???NOOOOOO. Microwaving tends to dry out the food and somehow loses a lot of its flavor. The alternative to this is my preferred, simple and easy method 1. Taking out a non-stick pan and DO NOT ADD OIL, (there is enough oil still in the food that will release after warming). 2. Dump the chicken and rice in the pan and start heating up. 3. After you hear the rice somewhat start to sizzle take a tablespoon or two of water and drop it in the pan and then immediately cover. 4. After 1-2 minutes take out the cover, stir until all the ingredients are nice and hot and serve on a plate. 5. Don't forget the white sauce!! Make sure you either have left over white sauce or a whole container. Add it to the dish at the end like you would if you just bought it! Doing it this way will preserve the flavor, rehydrate the food by steaming and keep the original texture since your cooking it over a pan.
This place is delicious. It is delicious at 3 AM in the morning when you're stumbling around after a night out and are so confused because there are halal carts EVERYWHERE at this intersection, until you finally notice the long ass line for just one. Delicious magical food. You can also make friends with all the other drunk folks in line and talk about how you weren't sure this truck was the ONE, but now that you've all lined up behind it, it MUST be because the line for it is so HUGE. ok. It also tastes pretty good cold the next morning for breakfast if you hadn't managed to scarf it all down the night before. Also, that white sauce is totally addictive. Put it on your food before you leave and ask for some take out containers of sauce. You'll want them.
Step 1: Get to 53rd and 6th Step 2: Get in line Step 3: Have cash ready ($6 to be exact) Step 4: Move up and watch the chicken&rice assembly line Step 5: Pick up your chicken and rice Step 6: Grab white and red sauce to top on your platter Step 7: Devour that shit --- Yummmmy. We went around 3:30 am and didn't wait too long because they are very efficient and fast. They have a assembly line going on - the first guy takes your $6 and the rest each add the components. You do the white and hot sauces yourself at the end. Don't put too much hot sauce or else you end up wasting it (you're probably thinking "I can handle the heat" but seriously try a little first and see for yourself). They don't sell any drinks but a smart guy has a small cart with drinks right next to this chicken and rice cart. The line seemed to get longer around 4-5 am but like I said before, they move fast. Worth a try.
Is this Halal cart worth almost missing your flight to go back home? Absolutely! We (me and my then, future wife) stopped by 53rd and 6th one last time to savor their lamb combo plate. We ate our plates by the sidewalk, and savored NY street food at its finest before hopping on the Metro to catch our SF bound flight from JFK. Mind you we have all our luggages that day, all 3 big travel luggages. But we didn't care, because Halal cart is the best!!! They probably have crack as their secret recipe because its that darn delicious! (pun intended) That special white sauce smothering the lamb, rice, and vegetables really sets the plate off! A sprinkle of red powder adds a hint of spice in it. Their lamb, so tender and flavorful, is freshly cut off their vertical boiler. Even its packaging is very efficient: great to eat by the sidewalk or bring back to your office. It was accident really how we found this place. We tried visiting MoMa since it was a free admission that day. We were perplexed how the line to get into the museum spiraled around the block. While we were thinking thinking what to do next, one of my friend got hungry. He found the Halal cart. The rest was history. He shouted "damn this is good!" We tried for ourselves. Later on, all of us have a plate of our own. A very nice food experience on our first NY trip, topped only by me proposing to my wife on top of Empire State. =) If we visit NY again. First order of agenda is 53rd and 6th Halal, done.
My friend and I came here due to the five million fantastic reviews of the place, waited ~30 minutes in line totally starved, and both ordered the chicken/lamb combo. Verdict? Pretty good, but nothing extraordinary. Personally it feels like this place has blown up from word-of-mouth/possibly very clever marketing, but the food itself is nothing out of this world. The white sauce IS tasty and the red sauce IS spicy, but the lamb was in pieces so small it lost that lovely lamb-y texture. The chicken was nice and juicy, but just being able to cook chicken does not make an institution worthy of 5 stars. I, for one, can cook chicken pretty well too but I don't get Zagat reviews out of my behind. Anyway the rice was good, salad was your average iceberg stuff, and the hype pretty incredible. Maybe I'm just choosy but I didn't feel so great afterward from the food and generally my taste buds weren't all that amazed either. Definitely solid food, but all the rave reviews had set my expectations just too high.
Admittedly, this is not the healthiest food out there, but who cares? The lamb is juicy and flavorful. ?I've yet to try the chicken, but my friend who always order the chicken says great things about it. ?The portion is gigantic for its unbelievably cheap price. ?I don't handle spicy food too well, so I went a little too happy with the white sauce. ?Yeah.. bad choice. ?The platter became too greasy to eat. ?The next time I went, I controlled and reduced the amount of white sauce and sprinkled a tiny bit of the hot sauce. ?It finally worked for me then, like a match made in heaven. ?So one lesson to take from this review is that the hot sauce is there to balance out the white sauce. ?They go hand in hand - use them wisely!
Is it worth it? YES! theres always a wait but theres a good reason why. I don't like lamb but this place., wow, its just... so damn good! What is white sauce? I have no idea but it's awesooome! ? Definitely a must try in NYC! (they have chicken and lamb, but get the lamb even if you didn't like it before elsewhere. try it here!)
At first I seriously was doubting that a street corner cart could get such a high average rating let alone be reviewed at all. ?I mean... it's a street cart?! On coming to the corner, It's probably the easiest thing to spot. ?Even though there are carts on every other corner, it's the only cart which has a line up about 10 people deep at least at all times. ?Ding ding ding! ?We have a winner. It's actually pretty interesting to see them in action, I mean, they have their stuff together and it's running smooth. ?Their operation is probably the most efficient I've ever seen, well, for a street cart... ?But I guess most restaurants aren't even as good. You'll notice their tools of trade (for all I know they look like painters putty spreaders) and the mass amount of chicken and lamb they have cooking on a large surface. ? The choice is easy... chicken, lamb or both... pita or rice... go! ?After reading a ton of reviews, I decided on the chicken alone on rice. ?It seemed to be the popular thing to do. ?I also got them to hold off on drowning the dish with white sauce because I found that they literally drowned it in sauce. ?Not really for me but some people may like that. I swear, if all carts were like this I would hardly ever go anywhere else. ?The chicken they had was moist, the rice was nice and seasoned and the salad wasn't all too half bad either. ?And the best thing?? ?This thing the size of a Frisbee and about 1.5 inches high was only 6 dollars!! ?After seeing that most people couldn't even finish it I'd say this may be the best investment of your life. After all the places in new york I ate at... this takes the cake, or should I say "apple". ?Wow... I'm on fire with this one.
THE HYPE IS REAL! For those complaining about taste, they're probably delusional, or their taste buds got too singed from the red sauce to appreciate drunk street food. And those whining about the dryness of the chicken, what did you expect, it's street food for 6 bucks! Pour on the white sauce, go easy on the red sauce, and you'll be set for life.
Once again Halal Cart we meet again. No trip to Midtown is complete without stopping by here. There are a few carts in the area, but this one is the BEST. I recommend getting the combo platter. That's what I always get. If you have a hard time deciding from chicken or lamb... why not get both? All this goodness for only $6 !!!! You get A LOT for what you pay for!
It was my first time in NYC with some friends, and we walked all over time square to look for this cart. ?We had receive a tip that we had to try this chicken and rice cart, and we had to get the sauce with it. ?Our tipster didn't know the exact location of the cart so we basically had to hunt for it. ?We finally spotted a line of people and there it was the chicken and rice cart. ?You get a circular tin tray of chicken and rice with pita bread and then they pour this white sauce over it. ?We all had a taste and then we finally get what the big deal is about, it's really indescribable so just go try it!
The best meal I have had in my life!!! We flew all the way from Kansas City and my boyfriend from Chicago to try meal that was suggested to me and we are happy that lines were not long for us to be able to try most delicious meal we have ever had. (compared to Delmonico's) where we ate the first night on our stay in NY!! Nothing against Delmonico's, but Halal Cart with secret ingredient with the best chicken and white sauce can not be compared to many other dishes. We came back three times during that weekend to indulge in consuming this savory dish. I would strongly suggest it to anyone, no matter what background, religion, culture, or taste buds you have!! I believe that this meal would make peace on earth, if everyone could eat it at the same time!
Uhm. ?Dudes and dudettes? ?GET THEE TO THIS CART, NOW!!! ?Second best halal cart in the city (the best, in my opinion, being the Indian Halal cart at 46th & 6th). The line is worth it! ?It was colder than witch's hoo-ha on the day I decided to try this gem...but not one person in line cared. ?The portions are overly generous, you get two pieces of grilled pita with your platter, they're fast, they have a system that works, the one dude is WAY cute ;-)...and it only costs $6! I know they don't need another review...but I had to write this AND to give a "WASSUP???!!!" shout out to Paul L., who nailed it on the head: no matter what state of sobriety you find yourself in, this spot is jumpin' off!!!!
waited for about 30 mins which wasn't too bad. it's a decent portion. the flavor to me is ok. the white sauce is what makes it, but i wouldn't stand in line again for this rice plate. the hot sauce is super super spicy.
What can I possibly contribute to the already astounding 800 reviews for a $6 chicken & rice platter or $4 gyros?!?! ? For starters, it's dirt cheap for a pile of good junky food. ?Awesome drunk food, but by my standards, certainly not A-MAZING. ?Albeit, pretty damn close to it. ?Let's also be clear, that it's not the actual chicken & rice, it's the white sauce that makes the dish. The hot sauce gives it an extra kick. ?It's by far the spiciest thing I have ever eaten, but I handled it...and loved it. ?Still, WHAT THE EFF ... baffles me that I am even giving it 4 stars... but there's no denying that this is good stuff. Of course, I couldn't gorge myself on all that food, so I saved the leftovers for the next day. ?Here's what I conclude... this shit is greasy as all hell...and yet, it still taste good. ?Yeah, must be the grease. ?*sigh. In the wee hours of the night, there is a line..but they know how to keep it moving. ?Hunger makes you jump on your feet like no other.
I know the halal guys' illicit secret and I'm going to share it with you. If I mysteriously disappear tomorrow, please tell my mom that I love her and properly dispose of my ashes in the Hudson river, thanks. The Halal guys have a deal with the Mexican thugs down in Tijuana where they get crack for dirt cheap and sprinkle it in their white sauce because that's how good it tastes. Oh and that's where they get their habaneros too to make their flaming hot sauce. Make sure you hit up this joint after you consume copious amounts of Crown because it's only open from the hours of 7pm - 4am. After your plate gets shoved in your face because their so busy and the line is down the block, go over to the left side of the cart and you'll be blessed with unlimited amounts of white sauce and hot sauce! Be careful that you don't get tempted to steal one of the sauce bottles because Pedro is actually hiding in that white van across the street and he'll immediately take you down and throw you into the van where your whereabouts will never be seen again. VERY IMPORTANT TIP: TAKE THE HOT SAUCE TO GO IN THEIR LIL PLASTIC CUPS. THE SAUCE IS HOT ENOUGH FOR YOU TO CRY AND WET YOUR PANTS. Also, If you consume this late-night like all the rest of us alcoholics, you will wake up with cotton mouth since this stuff is super salty. DRINK LOTS OF WATER!
It takes me over an hour to get to this halal stand. But it is worth it! Everytime I would order 3 orders of lamb w/ rice and a lot of white sauce. NO...i don't eat it all at once, usually i save the rest for the entire week. YUP! it is that good...the magic is in the white sauce so be sure to stock up if you are taking it to go.
I liked it even better last night because there was only a few minute wait at 10:30 PM. ?It is nice that the food is fresh (although last night, the chicken tasted a little bit dry). ?The combo plate is probably better since the lamb give it more moisture. ?The hot sauce is insanely hot and the white sauce is great!
The first time I came to NY, this was the first meal I was treated to. For $6, you get a heaping plate of DELICIOUS hot food - enough for two meals. Sure as hell beats a $5 foot long from subway. The hot sauce is YUMMY YUMMY - just be careful. This was my second trip to NY. I had halal 3 out of 4 days, and I could still go for more... I love me some good cheap eats!
Can't agree. Sorry, totally no into it. Its OK. In my opinion, not any better than just OK. Huge portion, big enough to share with 2 people if you just gotta satisfy your curiosity and try it, take it a few blocks to to central park and (try to) enjoy it there. Got the chicken and lamb combo over rice (6). The lamb was better than the chicken...chicken was soo blah. Maybe just the rice and the white sauce would be better...cuz I wasn't a fan of the meat. ?Maybe I'm just not into halal cart food...or maybe its really just not so great after all. I just don't get it...
love. ?$6 for a big bowl of rice, chicken, pita bread and god knows what the hell else is in this bowl. ?the white sauce mixed in makes this amazing. ?a must try for anyone visiting new york.
Wow, this place is good! We got the combo rice plate with chicken and lamb with white sauce on top. Very tasty and healthy feeling - I'm sure the white sauce is not good for you. The hot sauce is spicy, but definitely flavorful and helped vary up the tastes. I would definitely recommend this place.
First timer in eating HALAL food..... so i was kind of skeptical... but OMGGGGGGEEEEEEEE! sooooo good, im literally hooked..!!! the sauces are awesome... its worth the wait tho for sure. im in LOVE.
The only place where value is still a business objective for the owners Food is way better than what you're payin for it.. head and shoulders above all other Halal carts, they recently expanded to 53rd and Broadway
For what it is, you really can't do any better than this cart. The amount of food is plentiful, the price is more than reasonable, and it is an experience in and of itself. Since most of the other stuff has been hit to death, I'll make a few recommendations: -The lamb is excellent, and the chicken is very good too. -Getting either meat over rice is a bigger meal (and more bang for your buck). That said, the flavor of the sandwich is very good too. What I would do is team up with a friend and split both a sandwich and a meat over rice. Works nicely. -For the love of all that is holy, ask for the red sauce on the side and put it in small amounts at a time. I like spicy more than almost anyone, and putting it in by anything more than a dab from a fork at a time will cause major problems, especially the first time. -Get the white sauce on it there. Damn good. -Be ready for a line. We got relatively lucky both times I went, but be prepared to wait for a while and be ready to want to eat it immediately. All in all, it is some good eats at a great price. If you can live with yourself long enough to wait, taking it into Central Park (just a few blocks north) can work very well too, as long as you bring napkins and drinks to absorb the heat.
Are you a late night partier? Does your night of boozing inevitably end with some kind of late night grubbing? OM NOM NOM? If yes, then you and I understand each other. Come here, order the lamb and chicken plate, which comes with rice and some lettuce and warm pita bread. Smother sweet white sauce, hot (and i mean scorching HOT so beware) hot sauce, add some BBQ sauce on there, and you've got yourself the best 4AM meal ever. Oh, its cheap (about 6 bucks a plate) and leftovers still taste really good the next day! (I mean even after you're not drunk anymore!) FTW! PS: be prepared to wait in line with a bunch of other ravaging drunkards just like you.
What's to say about this cart that hasn't been said? They can be a bit rude, so get to know what you want before you order, either lamb with rice, chicken with rice, or half and half, if you want it to go, state so when you order or they might not give you a lid, same goes if you want extra white sauce or hot sauce. Dabble a little bit of the hot sauce first as a few out of town friends ruined their experience by pouring it all in at once and then telling me in the words of Ralph Wiggum "it tastes like burning!"
WTF? ?A huge a$$ line for a food cart? ?Are you serious?! ? Yes, you are! ?What's the big deal right? It turns out that this was a world famous halal cart... luckily we stumbled across it because I would have been pretty upset if i left New York without giving this place a try. ? It had the one of the best gyros and chicken pita sandwiches I have ever had, and for $4 each, you cannot beat that anywhere! ? All those other carts that try to charge you $6-8 for gyros of chicken pita sandwiches should be ashamed of themselves. ? Here's a tip: ?Make sure you know what you want to order and make sure you speak up, because the guy taking orders will yell at you and get mad at you if you don't know what you want or order something incorrectly or if you don't speak up! ? But it's all worth it!!
Outside our Sheraton hotel.. we saw this line... A VERY LONG LINE.. After drinking all day and all night, at 4am, we decided to wait in line for something we had no clue about. ? OMG i thought the guy taking the orders was gonna scream at us for not knowing what to order. ?we copied the drunkards who were in front of us, and ordered what they did. ?Pretty good food! Watch out for the hot sauce.. that is no joke! I dont know how they cook such good food on a cart?! It amazes me. And the food is cheap. ?A good tip, Sunday night theres hardly a line.. and of course we went at 3am.. LOL
This is my second time here this week, third for my friends. I would have followed them again if I wasn't feeling so guilty of doing so. This is too good to be good for you....mmmmmmm esp the white sauce. I nearly died the first time I had it bc I poured the red sauce on my food, mixed it up and licked the remaining red sauce from my fork....it was so freaking spicy that i literally felt my brain buzzing...i think i got vision impaired for a nano-second. mix it up with a little bit of bbq sauce to add a little sweetness to the spicy goodness. nom it has become a tradition to eat this every time i go to NY (i visit about 4 times a year for work). my coworker actually takes it on the plane back home. haha its delicious but it doesn't quite smell that delicious if you're not eating it and it's chillin in a bag. (Like Lee's sandwiches O_O) but we're considerate people, we triple bagged it and locked it up in the carry on =)
For never having had halal food and let alone not even enjoying chicken, My chicken and rice was delicious, I wish i would have gotten a tad more hot sauce. The service was amazing and I will def tell anyone who visits the time square area that this place is legit.
Went here a hot summer day the food was fresh and cheap God bless Astoria !
My favorite street food from NYC 53rd & 6th!!!! I literally come all the way from Miami, FL and go buy a mandatory plate of the works with the yellow rice, chicken, lamb & beef, lettuce, pita ...lots of the white sauce to go and 1 of the spicy sauce. When u see the line u get a little discouraged but it moves like hot cakes! Love this cart, it makes me & my family happy every time we visit NYC :o) Always look for the right time because its a different vendor on certain hours. Happy New Years!!!
With all the great reviews, I know I should definitely try this Halal cart. I came here after watching the ball drop on New Years and there was a lot of people waiting on line even though there are three of the same Halal carts on the same street. I ordered the chicken and lamb combo with pita bread and shared it with a friend. The rice, lamb and pita bread was amazing, the best halal cart I've tried. But the chicken was a bit dry.The sauces are at the side of the cart and we have to put it on our food ourselves. Overall, this Halal cart is definitely worth trying.
Definitely get some bang for your buck. Hot, fast and 'fresh' Halal Cart food at the tip of your fork. Yum.. Just run your Halal over to Paley Park, sit and enjoy the calming crash of the manmade waterfall as you get a taste of spicy hot red sauce.
Like the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty, the halal cart at 53rd and 6th, or simply, "53rd and 6th," is a New York institution for the young, the old, cash-strapped college students, and the inebriated. Generous portions of rice and shredded chicken or gyro meat (or both), topped with lettuce and pita bread to assuage the guilt of the health conscious. When you get your plate, resist the urge to gorge yourself (at least for a second), and slather it with sauces 'til your heart's content. Take caution though, the hot sauce is lava in a bottle. Then enjoy the best meal deal in Manhattan for six bucks and change. Also, the workers there have glorious beards.
This cart saved my life the other night! After a long night at Johnny Utah's, I got a combo of chicken and lamb with rice and foolishly put a lot of hot sauce. I had a TERRIBLE experience. My soul jumped out of my skin! Seriously, if you need a yummy fix after a great night of fun make your way to 53rd and 6th.
Halal food here is awesome. Why? Because they're open 24 hours or whenever I'm around. Sometimes when the nights are slow, my co-workers and I skip out for a late night dinner trip. Waiting among the drunken clubbers early in the morning with a line that sometimes extends down the block. Is the food worth it? Hrmm... maybe. To be honest I eat a lot of halal food. Almost an insane amount and the quality is better here but not by much. What you will get here is larger portions, better quality ingredients, better sauses. But to be honest, to the normal consumer, they will not be able to tell the difference between the carts. If you're in a rush, I do not recommend coming here. There are other great carts you can try getting food at. Maybe even with more variaty in options you can choose from. I come here because I love the environment and the idea you never know who you might meet. You can share you experience, suffering the dead cold of winter to the high humidity of summer. Its great stuff just a highly overated experience.
Finally had this after hearing so many good things about it ... note why - tried it once many many years ago from a different halal cart and i was NOT a fan of the white sauce Finally had the guts to try this, make sure you pick the cart with the line (that's how I found it) ... and it is AWESOME ... for the price + food (5/5)
This was seriously trouble. Best street food ever. EVER. Hands Down. Bomb. Delicious. Big bowl of rice, topped with chicken or lamb. ?Some actually like the lamb better, but I'm good with the chicken. The white sauce is crack, and the hot sauce will come out of your ass, so you better becareful, it is SPICY. This is a must try. *Funny story, My dumbass bought 2 of these togo, froze it, and flew it back with me to Cali. Don't do this. I was drunk btw.
this is a must for visitors to ny. if you're looking for a cheap and quick food fix come here after 7:30pm for a $6 chicken and rice plate full of delicious goodness. ?come early enough to beat the line, because even at midnight the wait is out of control...but still so worth it. ?wish they had this out in LA!!
$6 for a well proportioned mixture of spice, herbs, richness, flavorful cuisine. I was so impressed by the amount of rich flavor produced from such a small little cart. The chicken and lamb over the rice, with white sauce and touch of salad was THEE perfect combo ever.
To all those New Yorkers out there lucky enough to work or live nearby this special cart, I am envious of all of you!! "We Are Different" is written on their cart and that is one true statement. Everything is made-to-order. I ordered a combo platter (ground lamb, chicken on rice w/ a side salad and pita slices). So effin' tasty, I've had plenty of lamb, but not ground lamb. Whatever they season it with is cracktastic!! All the ingredients were so fresh. Combining all three sauces (white, sweet, spicy) and mixing it all in completes the entire dish. All for $6! Just eating here was life-changing. Everyone should have this food experience, I repeat EVERYONE! Yo mama, yo sista, and yo cousin too.
What's telling about this particular cart is that at 3am on a weekend night when there are several other carts within less than a block, the lines for this cart still stretch 15-20+ people deep. People cab it from everywhere in Manhattan to come to this joint. When I first started working in NYC years ago, my friends insisted that I check out this cart and it quickly grew on me to the point where I would walk up from 33rd & 1st to get the lamb & rice in the evenings. Even now when I go to visit NYC, with all its culinary variety, I still wanna come up to 53rd & 6th!
Completely awesome and I was stone cold sober. ?I can't even fathom how good this would be after a night of hard drinking. ?I will find out real soon.
I don't get it. I've been eating street meat in NYC for 12 years now and this place is not good. The food was so incredibly bland, if it weren't for the mayonnaise (aka white sauce) there would have been no taste at all. Plus the way it's all chopped up along with the fact that the rice was totally overcooked just gave the whole thing a very mushy consistency. I wouldn't go back even if there wasn't a ridiculous line.
Love the meat and rice. I listened to the Yelp tip of looking for the long line and wasn't disappointed. ?Such a great value for $6, even had leftovers. ?Great post-theater meal.
So this was the place recommended by my friends and I double checked with yelp too...sadly disappointing. We went after watching Chicago with a healthy appetite and found the two carts as described by previous yelpers. We passed the first one with the long line and crossed the street to the other cart. We ordered two combos (chicken and lamb) and two bottles of water for $15. Definitely the cheapest meal we've had in new york so far...i had high hopes because of the masses eating around the area. We added the white sauce and the hot sauce and started eating. Taste initially wasnt too bad, but then as we continued eating the taste of the sauce was not appealing anymore. I tried just eating the meat and rice on its own to see how its flavor was without the sauce covering it up and everything was dry and hardly flavorful. I wanted to like it because of all the rave reviews, but it just wasnt happening...for either of us. With more than half left in each of our tins, we tossed it and it left us unsatisfied with dinner but oddly full and feeling rather bloaty. Sorry guys, really not worth it even though it was cheap. I definitely rather eat kebabs or some chinese street food.
Folks -- It is just hype. There are much better Halal carts in the city. It's bland meat with rice and some sauce. And it cannot be any better because they are making it for the masses. It gained the fame somehow and now it is riding on that fame. All the folks who are raving about this probably don't know much about how this food should be. If you really want to try good halal food, try Raffiqi's cart. I have one near my work at Park and 23rd street. The meat is spiced, the rice is moist, the sauces are mixed in the right proportion
Tourist: What is this line for? Me: Halal food Tourist: Is it THAT good? *snaps a picture* Me: *Nods* Yes I've waited in the notorious line in the cold, rain, hot weather, drunk, and even by myself while my boyfriend drove around the block to avoid getting a ticket. This is proof that people do stupid things when they're in love. I have to admit; sometimes the chicken is a little plain and the lamb is chopped too much but nothing is perfect right? Actually scratch that, the salty lamb and the bland chicken is a match made in heaven. Something about the street meat, rice, strips of pita bread, and lettuce mixed together with the sauce (white & hot sauce) makes it worthwhile. Here are some tips that I've learned over the years: 1. Assuming that you're taking it to go: Mix the hot sauce from its container (2-3 medium drips) into the white sauce container. Mix it WELL to avoid any unpleasant burns that may occur in the middle of the night. 2. Give the halal man a dollar for some extra pita bread strips. 3. Do yourself a favor and get an extra dish to go. 4. Stir up any leftovers the next morning (including the lettuce) in a skillet... forget the microwave! No need for oil. Toast the pita bread strips, its highly recommended. Now, I'm pretty sure this isn't the healthiest dish ... something about 2000 calories? I'll pretend that I didn't hear that. FYI - Their cardboard falafel is awful. Hopefully they changed their recipe.
Freaking amazing food. For Muslims this is a halal place. The food is to die for. A definite must have if in NYC. Be careful of the hot sauce its very spicy
Hmmm I'm pretty surprised at how much this cart is hyped up. I figured over 2000 reviews, and it still has a 4.5 rating- it must be mind-blowing! That it is not. Good cheap food it is. We waited in a line of around 15 people at 10p on a Sunday night, and the line only took 15m. Once it's your turn to order, the transaction literally takes like a minute so know what you want before you get there. One man shovels rice and salad into the tray (with his bare hands?) and man-handles a pile of pita into the box while the other man takes the order/money and piles on the meat (using utensils thankfully). For $6, you get a sizable pile of orange rice, iceberg lettuce, chopped lamb, chopped chicken and strips of flatbread. I like that they use the thicker pita (but it just comes out of a bag). The lamb has better flavor than the chicken. Ordered a separate falafel plate for $5 that just had 2 average falafel balls on it. Should have known not to order that since they had been fried a long time ago and were sitting out for who knows how long unloved. My biggest disappointment was that the rice didn't have more flavor. Seeing that it was orange and so enticing, I expected some kind of spice or flavor, but it was just colored basmati. Boo. If it weren't so cheap and fast, I might be annoyed. Since it was both, I'll give it 3-stars for street food. My mind was boggled moreso than blown.
It's as good as everyone else described.... and yes, beware of the hot sauce, a few drops go a long way.
Amazing chicken and rice here. Not sure what it is about it that makes it better than the other Halal carts, but the chicken and rice here definitely a) tastes different and b) tastes better. For $6, you can get a very heft serving of chicken over rice plus two pieces of bread and a bit of salad; way more than enough food for one person. Line may be long sometimes, but they're very efficient about serving up large batches at once, so stay patient. Advice: get the chicken & rice (not the lamb), and get both white sauce and hot sauce over it (hot sauce is on the spicy side though). There are some places to sit and eat right by the cart, but these are usually taken (or if they're not, it's probably too cold out); there's a park nearby on 53rd (to the west). Otherwise though, think ahead about where you can eat the food!
I tried the lamb and chicken combo on my most recent visit, and it was great. Perfect meal after a night of drinking. ?And cheap too. Keep in mind the hot sauce is extremely hot! ?I poured it on my dish thinking it was Sriracha. ?After two painful bites, I had to throw the entire plate in the trash and get back into line for another one.
I know this place is very, very busy with long lines, but I have concerns with sanitation. I go by there 2 or 3 times a week on my way to pick up my wife. I will say that placing hotel pans full of food on the floor of a city street is certainly violating a few health laws. The two vans that are parked on that corner certainly do not look like HACCP is being followed. The inside of the vans are not approved refrigeration vans. I know that the food smells great and the lines are long, very long but show me an "A" rating by the NYHD. I have stop eating at carts about 30 years ago for various reasons and only recently have I visited and enjoyed 2 different carts in another part of NYC. This was only after observing the operation for hours to make sure it is a clean and safe. This is only my opinion of this location.
On Thanksgiving night we arrived in New York we were very cold and hungry. I would have never guessed how much I would have loved this cart. Halal Food in New York is like Mexican food to California they are everywhere! BUT OMG! I could eat this everyday. Especially at 12:30am drunk and running the streets of New York. We ordered the chicken and lamb over rice. The lamb is amazing and steaming. The chicken was good too but not as flavorful. LOVE the white sauce and the red sauce is OMG too spicy. But you know what really makes the dish awesome??? The lettuce. Just regular iceberg lettuce but with everything kind of being the same consistancy that lettuce gives it a good crunch. I food with texture. It's hot, it's spicy, it's cold, it's creamy. It's OMG C.I.M.F.!!!!! good. ? (little inside joke there) lol. All of this enjoyment for $6! I wish we had these late night eats in OC. :( *sigh* I'll dream of you of guys!
Not what it used to be!!!! A Disappointment! As a member of the cabbie fraternity for almost 5 years as a student, I used to frequent this place 2-3 times a week in the early 2000s. Back then the meat was better, finely cut from the rotisserie and then grilled. The chicken used to be cooked and grilled. You had the same amount of rush but you would get better food. Fast forward 5 years later and moved to the west coast, I returned this winter to visit my home ground. Visited this place and sadly it was not what it used to be. The sauces were the same, the rice has not changed but the meat was a disappointment. It was more steamed than grilled and no wonder, there was a huge mound of meat on the grill being put into plates and served to people. I miss the Halal Cart of the old days. I will be looking for another cart and not going for just hype.
You'll know you've found the right place when you see the Hilton on your left while waiting on the damn, long line at 2 AM. It is the best Halal there is from a cart. It's $6 a platter and it'll last you about three greasy meals. Yes, I crave it all the time and will often drive far away and wait on the line and brave the snow, rain, etc. for a platter or two of this. However, i must add... The dudes can be d****! So watch out! Shout at them, "GIVE ME MORE WHITE SAUCE!"
I would say 4.5 stars for this place. This place is perfect if you've been drinking and need to soak up the alcohol. Believe the hype. This place is awesssssooomme! Their lines are so nuts and it does not let up! They can seem a bit rude but dude look at that line of people that they gotta get through. For such an expensive city it's great that they can give you so much food for so little money. I got the combo when I went. And there are a bunch of street vendors that you can get drinks from so if you put too much spicy sauce on your food (it is freakin hot even half a teaspoon is a bit much). You haven't done NY if you didn't go here on you visit.
There was a long line for this food cart. A friend tipped us off on this place. It was impressive...this operation is quite a machine with several cookers ?doling out chicken/lamb and rice. They know their product. Even after eating all day, this midnight snack was worth it. The simple carry out container was filled with goodness. We got the combo of chicken and lamb with rice. The lamb was excellent and the rice tasty and light. I thought the chicken was a little dry, but you can pour some of the white sauce over it. I'd go again and have the lamb and rice. Delicious!
WHOA! This is sooooooooo good! AND for a little bit of money! I usually can only finish half! I can't wait to go back for some more!
We came here one night after dinner (yeah i know) to check it out since this cart is only here for CERTAIN hours. Theres another cart here during the daytime so DO NOT BE FOOLED. The line was RIDICULOUSLY long. The food itself was pretty good and tasty but i was so full from dinner i just couldnt eat most of it. It's pretty big for what you pay for and they make it super fast! I would definitely try it again for dinner sometime. -1 star because i saw them take water from the fountain thats next to it and used it to wash stuff. not sure what they were washing but that was a little sketch to me.
There were literally 4 halal carts on this block at 2am. I passed by one that was on 53rd and 6th with 2 customers. Is this it? I look to my left and there I saw the looooong line of Yelpers. Score! So I walk over and noticed that they were both "Halal Guys" carts, same yellow sweatshirts, same exact carts, same owners. Only difference...a long ass line vs. no line. So what did I do? Walked back over to the no line cart and got myself a mixed platter. Walked passed the ppl in line, pointed and laughed while eating my delicious platter! Fools! In reality, I just got my big $6 platter and we trekked over to a pizza place...no pointing...maybe a little laughter. The platter is deliciously simple, seasoned rice, chicken, lettuce, and some other meat (lamb?). Add white sauce, and BAM! creamy, tangy bits of goodness. Add hot sauce, and BAM! spicy kick. WARNING: Add hot sauce a little at a time b/c it's SPICY! With the popularity of this place, there are now 2 of them on the same block. Skip the one with the long line and go to the 2nd one! I give you permission to point and laugh!
This must be what meat tastes like in heaven, perfectly tender, deeply flavorful, intensely satisfying, all for $6?!?!?
This place was awesome. ?Such great value for $6 cash. ?Got the lamb and chicken combo, and it was outstanding. The white sauce mixed with the hot sauce was a great combination. ?I could probably eat this multiple times a week if I lived in New York. ? Best cart food I've ever had.
My experience took place sometime after 11 o'clock on a Saturday night, and it was awesome! If you are trying this for the first time, I strongly recommend the chicken & lamb with rice plate. Just add white sauce, mix and you are in heaven. Warning: the red sauce has a pretty good burn so don't go crazy with it if you are a fan of spicy.
I visited NY the first time in my entire life this past weekend and my goodness, New York, you are amazing. So an acquaintance of mine (who shall not be named) and his fiancee introduced me to this magical food cart called Halal. He ordered three mixed plates. The 20 minute line was definitely worth it. He suggested the oh so amazing white sauce. As a fan of hot, I wanted to try it, but I was warned that it was super spicy. The meat in this plate were super delicious and juicy, and the white sauce just adds so much more flavor! (My gosh this sounds oddly wrong...) Anyways, I highly recommend this, but remember, don't add TOO much white sauce(:
This place has always been in my heart since 2007. I walked by this cart when i was visiting NYC with 3 friends from LA. We weren't sure why there was a such long line, but we got in the line.... glad that we did! because the food is soooo good.. and it's cheap too!! Now i've lived in NYC, i dont remember how many times i've eaten the combination platter from this place. Everytime i have a guest visiting from out of town, i alwayssuggest them to try this place.. and those who try, love it! Just remember not to put too much of that red sauce on your food.. because it's HOT!
I could eat this stuff all day! ?For $6, you get an extra large plate of yumminess that will last you for at least two meals. ?Be sure to get a lot of white sauce with a splash of red (well, for those with weak, aging tummies like me).
Ordered Chicken Rice and Lamb Gyro. This is the first time that I ever tried food from a food truck in New York. Seeing how popular this food truck is on Yelp, we decided to give it a try before watching a Broadway show. The chicken rice was really really tasty! The size was big with many chunks of chicken meat. I told the guy to give me a little bit of the white sauce because of my health consciousness but still he gave me way more than I wanted. The lamb gyro was just alright. The lamb doesn't really taste like lamb, but the good thing is, the pita is served warm. So warm that my hands can't hold it for too long in the first 5 minutes when it was served. Overall, a tasty food truck! Good for an economical meal before watching a Broadway show.
Whoa! The super long lines tell it all: good food at reasonable prices. [It was a lot of food for me and, sadly, I couldn't finish but half of it so next time we'll just order one and share.] The combo plate is the best. The white yogurt sauce is delicious and the red sauce is mighty spicy but very good too. Eating in the street outside a skyscraper on 6th St., along with tons of other people holding the same aluminum container as you, added to the whole experience. Mmmmm!!!!
$6 worth of heaven. ?Lamb over rice and salad. ?What more could this girl ask for? The rice is an odd shade of orage but don't let that turn you off. The line can be long at lunch but at 4 in the afternoon, you can walk right up. ?I LOVE the serve yourself white sauce/hot sauce bar. ?I love it almost too much...
After hearing so much hype about this place, I wanted to try it on my next trip to NYC. I ordered the CHICKEN AND RICE plate for about $6-7 bucks. Doused that plate in WHITE SAUCE because everyone said it tastes like crack, as well as some BBQ sauce and hot sauce. Omywooord that HOT SAUCE IS SPICY. I tried the WHITE SAUCE ON ITS OWN and it tastes like STRAIGHT UP MAYO, no yogurt...just MAYO. You can imagine how bad i felt afterwards. The chicken was very tender, but it could've used a little more flavor/spices. I'll have to try it on its own without all the mayo on top. Even though I didn't think it was that great, I want to try this place again. I felt the need to defend this little cart, as my friends were ragging on this place pretty hard. ? I heard that the food carts in NYC are bad, and this is the most decent one so I guess that long line is justified. And for the amount they give you, you can't really complain.
Wow!! ?Can we say overrated? ?People kept telling me I had to try this place so obviously I had high expectations. ?But even if I had zero expectations I feel like the food here was standard at best. ?I mean, don't get me wrong, I was hungry and it got the job done. ?I tried the chicken rice plate and the lamb rice plate. ?They were both certainly edible and pleasant to eat. ?But definitely nothing to write home about! ?The lamb was better than the chicken. ?It was ground so reminded me of eating taco meat. ?Chicken was pretty bland. ?White sauce doesn't add very much flavor and the red sauce is EXTREMELY spicy...proceed with caution. I wouldn't go here again, except maybe to see if my experience was a fluke. ?But I don't think it was. ?I've had better Middle Eastern food just about anywhere else... 3 star food but minus 1 star for the disappointment resulting from high expectations
So I walked 2 miles roundtrip at 2am to get food from this cart last night. ?The first few bites I had when I got back to my apartment I was completely underwhelmed. ?The chicken was lacking seasoning, the rice was typical, nothing to write home about. Then I added the sauce, I added the white sauce. ?The sauce tastes like it uses mayonnaise/cream as a base. ?This sauce is fucking delicious; by itself it's rich and creamy, but doesn't really do anything, but mixed and tossed up with the chicken and rice it is incredible. ?At first I thought it was okay, but after finishing my food I just started to crave more. I'd definitely say this place is worth hitting up and maybe even making a trip for. ?Also, the real cart is on the south west corner of 53rd and 6th.
"We are different": Of course! You guys are famous for no reason! Maybe I wasn't drunk enough when I ate this but this wasn't even good. When I opened my foil plate, the rice and the meats were lukewarm. After adding the white sauce and hot sauce, the food became even colder. The rice was bland and dry. The chicken and lamb meat were minuscule in size. I want more meat! Flavorless without the sauces. I have had halal food from different street vendors where they charge less, wait time is less and the meat is 10 times more!! Overrated mass produced food.
This place is the shit. ?You can get a chicken platter, a lamb platter, or a combination platter for $6. ?You can also get a gyro for $4. ?The platter is the better deal-- it'll be enough for two decent meals, whereas the gyro is only good for a lunch. I prefer the lamb-- it's more moist than the chicken, and has much better flavor. ?Drench everything in the secret white sauce, and when you're done, you'll have that satisfying greasy feeling in the back of your throat that is conducive to the sort of coughing that brings a bunch of flavorful phlegm back up to your mouth :) If you ask for it spicy, they'll give you a dash of hot sauce-- you might not think this is enough, but exercise caution, as their hot sauce is much more potent than 90% of other hot sauces typically used in the USA. My advice: come during off peak dining hours to avoid the long lines. ?The guys are often pretty friendly too and may chat you up while you wait for your food.
Yesssssss! Lamb and chicken! Their hot sauce is by far the best!!!! But be warned, it is very spicy!
i think i'm giving this place a 5 star b/c i was pretty intoxicated and my taste buds werent sober!!!! the white sauce is amazing...i didnt use the hot sauce but my friend got F-ed up the next day....stomach problems for the next half day was painful jes looking at him....its that spicy sooo dont drench the whole plate w/ hot sauce...even if ur korean...dunt do it!!!! we got here around 330am and it was packed...everyone getting out of the bars and clubs all looking for some munchiess.... love this place, they need one in front of the association bar in downtown la...Franchise???
I was walking home from where I can't really remember late one night and as I found myself hungry and near the corner of 53rd & 6th, I did remember the stellar reviews of this cart from Yelp, so I decided, "Why the Hell not?". ? The Yelpers did not let me down. Since this was a weeknight and way after midnight, the line was minimal, maybe five or six people long. These guys have their system down though; I had my food in my hands before I barely even knew it. ? What I ordered was the chicken platter. Not really knowing what to expect (except that it was going to be mind-blowing), I thought this would be a plate of chicken parts on the bone. WRONG! It was pulled chicken meat, subtlety yet flavorfully spiced, served up with some very tasty and perfectly cooked pilaf style rice, grilled pita strips and some lettuce (which frankly I could have done without due to the wilt factor that goes along with lettuce being packaged in with hot meat and rice [anybody remember the "McDLT"?]). ? Anyhow, this stuff was great and really hit the spot! The anticipation of eating this incredibly amazing looking and smelling food forced me to hail a cab in order to speed home to my imminent feast. The whole ride home, it was just about everything I could do to keep from tearing into and totally destroying it, it smelled so wonderful. Glad I waited 'til I got home though because then I got to dress it with the indescribably delicious white sauce and the Hellishly piquant hot sauce. ? Concerning the red sauce: I'm a major league pepperhead, but believe-you-me, these guys aren't effing around with this concoction and everything the previous 2093 ?reviewers have written about this pureed essence of a red devil's gonads is absolutely the truth! Please tread carefully when dealing with this capsacinous equivalent of plutonium!
Its almost a ritual to come by here to grab a bite if you're in the area Service - 2/5 They're not the nicest and they don't say thank you but hey, its street food. Your standard street cart, sauces are self serve on the side unless you request to go Newcomers will notice that there are no menus so you'll have to ask someone inline or just listen to the people ordering up front Decor - A bustling street corner Food - 3.5/5 The chicken is always a bit dry and somtimes it can be pretty chunky. Theyre known for their chicken to be more on the shreded side Lamb - it looks like ground beef but it tastes great Hot sauce - its pretty spicy, probably on par with mamouns
All the yelp reviews were right - this place is awesome. I had the lamb & rice plate - so much food I could only finish half. The white sauce is to die for. All this for only $5! The only downside is the long lines. The first time I went there around 2:30 in the afternoon and waited in line around 20 minutes. The second time I tried to go there, they had just switched carts and had to cook the food. I waited in line for about 30 minutes before I finally gave up (at that point, there were probably about 30 people in line in front of me and they still weren't done cooking, so I was probably looking at at least another 30 minute wait). You know the food is good when there are 30 people in front of you, a line of people to the end of the block behind you, the line hasn't moved in 30 minutes because they're still cooking the meat, and everyone (except maybe me) is willing to wait for it!
Oh ... THE halal cart. Let me start off by saying that yes, there exists halal food more delicious than this place, but does that mean the halal cart doesn't serve delicious food? No. This cart is just a little short of amazing. I don't really understand why some people bash it other than maybe it's just not their cup of tea. I always get the combination. I always add two packets of the white sauce and one packet of the hot sauce. Despite what ANYONE says, the white sauce is NOTHING like ranch. The only thing in common it has with ranch is that they're both white. The flavors are so different from each other, only a fool would say their similar. Now, for the hot sauce. It is hot. Use one packet with caution. If you like a little spice, but aren't sure if you can really take it, add half a packet. Then if it's not spicy enough, add more. Now, if you go visit, you find three Halal Guys carts. The original is the one across the street from the Hilton. My boyfriend tells me that the three carts really do taste different. I haven't tried the other ones, so I don't know. Nonetheless, if you're looking for yummy touristy things to do, this cart is a must try. The line can be long. The shortest I've waited was 15 minutes and the longest I've waited was an hour. It's delicious. I definitely didn't mind waiting an hour in line for this especially because I was craving it. It's a nice dish. There's the meat, the yellow rice (which as previously mentioned is not oily), some lettuce, and a little bit of pita. I can finish the whole plate, but when I do people look at me with amazement. Deliciousness for $6. And yeah there's a wait, but you just have to get into the mindset that's how it's supposed to be. It's part of the experience. So quit your complaining. Go wait in line. And enjoy it.
Reigning Champion of the Cart world! This cart brings it in all fronts. It has got the S.M.V. down. Thats right. Sauce, Meat and Value. Always imitated never duplicated. Sauce: The secret is in the sauce. Their white sauce is unmatched. They might as well call it crack sauce because you just keep wanting more and more. And their hot sauce? that thing is hotter than demon blood. its so hot you can probably clean out an engine with this thing. so take it easy tiger because this thing will burn you a new one. personally i like to concoct my own sauce mix. I call it the Trifecta, which is a mix of white sauce, hot sauce and BBQ sauce. Spicey, Tangy, Creamy. Awesome. Meat: They got the default selection of chicken and crispy lamb. Can't decide? Why not make it a Combo. CCCCCombo Breaker b*tches. Half chicken + Half lamb hybrid. The Prius Platter. Value: The platters come out to $6 USD. This meal is cheaper than a Triple Grande Soy Vanilla Latte from Starbucks. Much win. All that dollar won't mean much if it didn't bring it in terms of portion. Don't you worry. This thing is massive. If you can manage to finish the entire thing you'll definitely be walking around with a food baby and onset of food coma is inevitable. The price of success is that there's going to be dupes and imitations. Notably the cart that is there on the same exact location during the day time. Don't be fooled because its a straight up scam. They even got the same aluminum containers, yellow shirts, and yellow bags with slightly different logos. You can see and taste the difference. The real cart comes out after 7pm and stays open till the wee hours of the night. I'll let you in on a little secret. Don't want to wait in the huge line? No problem. Just cross the street to the South-East corner of 53rd and 6th. That cart is owned and operated by the same guys and has the same SMV. The SE corner cart is also usually open during the day too. They set up around noon and stay open till late night. So get em while they're hot. It's all about the SMV. Don't forget to try the Trifecta Combo FTW.
Okay I'm sorry guys. ?I have to say most of the yelpers here are smoking something OR consuming this meal when drunk. ?Of course when you are drunk, culinary expectations may be slightly.. different. [2 carts] When you go to 53rd and 6th there are two carts on two sides of the street. ?One cart has a long line and one cart has a short line. ?I asked the guys at the long line if they were the same, and he said yes. ?I asked why people were lining up at this particular cart and he shrugged. [mixed order] For 6 dollars you get ground lamb, chicken rice, pita, and cabbage. ?I'll break down the review into its parts. [ground lamb] Very tasty. ?It is salted well, and seems to be slightly breaded with something. ?It has some other middle eastern spices I can't quite pinpoint. [shredded chicken] Looks like chicken thigh is cooked on the hot plate then shredded with a spatula [rice] Basmati rice (I think) which isn't too fluffy. [cabbage] Just cabbage [white sauce] Okay. ?Now there is where I call bs on everyone's palettes. ?This is just an ordinary WHITE SAUCE WHICH TASTES LIKE MAYO OR RANCH. ?Really guys.... [red sauce] Okay. ?This is the sauce of death. ?EXTREMELY SPICY [pita] Yummy. Overall the food is good, and I would eat here if there was no line. ?And for 6 bucks in nyc it is a great deal. ?But is this like the best meal ever? No. Is the white sauce spectacular or has something magical? No. Would I wait in the cart with the long line while the other cart has no line? No. As harsh as I am in this review, i still am giving it high ratings because the food is solid. ?But as for as the other yelp reviews are concerned.... yea, sorry.. your descriptions are way off.
the food was fucking good. Living on the west coast, I gave Shake Shack a try, but In-N-Out is far superior. On the wet coast, my ultimate comfort food is a nice burrito from one of my favorite taquerias. If I lived in New York City this would be my new ultimate comfort food. But I don't live in New York City.
First things first; this is the absolutely PERFECT place to get 3AM drunken grub in Midtown. There is no equal. Make sure you understand this truth above all else. Secondly, for $6 you can get a solid meal that you might not always be able to finish without feeling bloated. The white sauce works magic, and the hot sauce should be used at your own discretion. A spoonful of that will keep you desperate for water. Try to get the combination of both the chicken and the lamb; I don't like to have to choose between two things I like equally, and plus it gives you more variety. Lastly, I still can't understand why people choose to line up by the specific cart on 53rd just slightly west of 6th Ave. The other carts at the intersection with guys wearing the same shirts and the same logos make the SAME food. I've tried all of them at the intersection; it all tastes the same (equally mouth watering). I've even seen guys from two carts trade places because one is busier than the other and the first one wants to relax a bit. I don't know why I'm telling you this because I love that I can jump in the substantially shorter line every time. I guess I'm just being a good guy. To sum up, get wasted and eat here. It will be more formative of your NYC experience than seeing the Statue of Liberty. Per the content of this review, please also remember to drink responsibly. ;)
Since nobody has reviewed this place yet, I figure I should. The street meat cart on 6th and 53rd usually has a line about 100 people long. Hipsters, suits, skanks, clubbers, bridge & tunnelers, thugs, old lesbian cat-ladies, young, aged, black, white, yellow, they all wait patiently for the nosh from this cart. You can see the line from blocks away. You can see the people all standing around with their yellow bags, sitting on the fountains, plopped straight down on the side walk, in their cocktail attire, pounding their lamb and rice or chicken and rice like animals. There are many food carts near it that look exactly identical, save for the yellow shirts on the workers and yellow bags. Those other carts NEVER have a line. This particular cart though, has people waiting ages to get their plate. (Incidentally, the yellow bag that the meat comes in has the words 'we are different' written across the bottom. Bold statement from a food cart that looks just like the other 40,000 in Gotham.) You've seen our pictures of the scene. We've always wanted to see what the big fuss was about. I mean, how could we not, right? We're only human. Tonight was my turn. And I'll attempt to give a fair and honest treatment of my experience. When I'd waited my time on line and finally got close enough to see the hot top and sizzling food, I was impressed by the shear volume of meat. A pile of lamb about eight inches high and a pile of shredded chicken about two feet high. Yes, two feet high. And prolly a couple feet wide and a foot deep. Think about that. That's a lot of meat. They do such a high volume at this little cart (I'm guessing a couple thousand "guests" a night) that they gotta keep the meat coming. Keep the meat coming, I said. Oh yeah. Three dudes work the cart. Dude 1: scoops your meat and takes your cheddar. Dude 2: puts the lid on your meat and puts your meat in the yellow bag. Dude 3: puts yours tzaziki and hot sauce in the yellow bag and gives you the bag and says thank you and smiles at you with his three teeth in the creepy sort of way that makes you hope he doesn't drive a white van. Right, so everyone with me so far? Good. I ordered chicken. On account of my gout. Love the lamb but went with the chicken. Dude 1 scooped my chicken from the incredible mountain of shredded chicken in front of him and told me "six dollars." I handed Dude 1 a ten. He had four ones held out to me quicker than Doc Holiday pulls his six shooter. Dude 1 is fast and deadly. Apparently, time is money in this racket. I can dig it. (Yes it bothers me when people who handle my food ALSO handle filthy nyc paper currency. But I did not protest. When in Rome...) Dude 2 rocks the lid on my meat and Dude 3, well, I don't really want to think about Dude 3 anymore. I walk to the cart 12 feet away that has the beverages. Two cokes. Two dollars. (The main cart doesn't offer beverages. Dudes 1, 2, and 3 don't have time for that shit. They're dealing in meat, not beverages. I do not know if beverage cart is officially or unofficially associated with meat cart.) I walk over to the big fountain and take a seat next to some well dressed Indian businessmen who were bustin' a grub on their plates. Dots not feathers. They were killin' it. I scooted in. My bag is heavy. That's a good sign. I open up my aluminum tin of food and take a taste. Nice. I then put on my tzaziki sauce and hot sauce. I dig in. I'm going to do question and answer with myself now, so that I answer any questions that you fine gentlemen may be having. What was in the plate? Rice, lettuce, chicken, triangles of pita bread. White sauce and hot sauce on the side. How much food was it? A lot. I ate the whole thing out of principle but was well satisfied halfway through. Was it good? Yes, it was good. Was it great? Yes, I do believe it was great. Was it the best tasting food I've ever had in my entire life? No, it was not. Was it the best street meat I've ever tasted? Yes. It was. Was it the best tasting food I've ever had in my entire life that cost only six dollars? It may have been. Was it as good as I expected? Difficult to say. I mean, you see people waiting hours in line at a street cart every night and your expectations will be very high. Not to mention, I personally allow my expectations to get very high with things. You know that. I'm an optimist by nature. I'll have to sleep on it and reassess my verdict in the morning.
yay!! i made perfect time once again in ny! only waited 5 mins in the cold and got my chicken and rice. im a little girl and i ate the whole thing by myself because it was that good. Im from sf and this is one of the things that i crave ALL THE TIME. GO HERE. there are two locations on the same intersection!
Very confused as to why this gets such a high rating. Yes is is busy. Yes the lines are long, but move fast. Yes the hot sauce really is hot. Otherwise this is just the standard halal fare that you can get anywhere in New York at the moment. Better than some maybe. It is still the same chicken, lamb, rice etc that all the other vendors use. The salad is the same toke ?inedible piece of lettuce and transparent tomato that all the cheap delis in the city use. ?In fact, I have been to many other Halal stands who make a bigger effort to provide a good salad and choice of rice. ( park ave on 57th SE corner for one, that I can remember) I guess this place has a good publicity manager or policy. Maybe most of the reviewers are from New Jersey and have never eaten anything else except for McDonalds etc. ?I just cannot believe that it gets such high marks from so many people. Something is not right here.
Best Gyro EVER! Nothing else I can add. However, the real cart opens at 5pm not earlier than that. I was fool when I went there early. Another cart will have the same set up, selling the same stuff but not as good. Be aware of what time you go there!
Let's just say I would take shots of their white sauce. Its that good.
Honestly, I only eat here when visitors come, or when it's 3 am and I'm in midtown. It's basically like the Denny's of New York City. ?It's solid, cheap, heavy, and it's available. But really, when you think about it, it's not that great. ?It's just chicken and rice! ?That's it! ?Pita bread, some mysterious white sauce and a hot sauce that's got some mad kick. But it's 6 bucks! ?You can't get that quantity of food for 6 bucks ANYWHERE in New York!
"Just wait till you try the REAL thing" was all they kept telling me as I tried to enjoy the good-but-not-amazing wanna-be-chicken-n-rices from other lesser Halal carts. But really, could it be THAT different, let alone THAT much better? And they were right. This cart compared to the others are pretty much worlds apart. Possibly galaxies. Usually, the munchies kicking in at 4am makes things taste a good 50% better, but no amount of munchies could have made this chicken-n-rice taste any worse than the deliciousness that it was. The line is crazy long, especially around 3-4am (and I'm sure at other times), but it's worth the wait and it goes pretty fast. There's actually another cart on the same corner who's line isn't as long but they're the same thing!! So if you want to not wait in line, look for that one. Chicken and rice is so tasty, and make sure you get the special white sauce, in which you must dump + mix into the chicken and rice before consumption. The red sauce is HELLS spicy so be careful! Don't get it mixed up with the other reddish BBQ sauce. Those sauces can getcha.. I craved this for a good 2 weeks after having it that night. If only I could get it delivered to Texas.
Yes, it's that good. It may be my imagination, but the one I got at the cart on the east side of 6th Ave was good, but not nearly as amazing.
Dollar for dollar one of the best things I have tasted. For $6 you get a huge plate filled with two meats (lamb, chicken) plus some amazing rice! The value just can't be beat! The line is long but moves quickly, well worth the wait. Waiting to pick up my bags at LAX i saw a lady with 3 plates she took home from New York and I just felt stupid for not doing the same, its that good!
You have to try it at least once. It's worth it.
Crack. I swear that what's in the infamous 53rd and 6th Halal Cart white sauce because it will be what will keep me from coming back for more. Highly recommended. $6 for an mazing platter. Can't get any cheaper in NYC. Just be careful with putting too much of the infamous red sauce. That shit is was hot as hell... but oh so good.
Cheap, tasty, simple. Their hot sauce ain't no joke, ow! Perfect late night meal.
I agree that the sauces make the dish. on a scale of 1-10 the spicyness of the red sauce is an 8. Very good food.
Street food done right, as filthy and dirty as you would expect. The meat is so tender and chopped so fine making sure you do not taste the bone and fat remnants. The lamb is aged properly and probably in a basement where flies provide the proper enzymes to break down the meat. The chicken was cooked to the max, and smothered with cow fat and lard. This is hands down the filthiest food I have ever had. Halal cart hit rock bottom a long time ago and started digging.
Every time i visit NY, i make it a point to stop by.
i freaking dream of this place! ive only had it once, but now im back in cali, I keep wanting something exactly like this here in the bay area! The white sauce, chicken over rice, some lettuce, and slices of pita bread all in a aluminum/metal like bowl thing for only exactly $6!! This is the real deal! Don't be fooled by the other ones. I have not been to the other ones, but all my friends say that the other ones are not even similar to this one on 53rd and 6th. In summary I feel like this stuff is like crack! It's so addicting! Also the great thing about this place is it opens crazy late! I think until 4AM. And it opens everyday!!! w00t w00t! If you are ever in New York, you gotta have this place at least once and its worth the trek no matter where you are. Heck if I was in Boston, I'd probably consider taking the 8 hour chinese bus round trip just to have this food! I even wish somehow this place delivered to all over the world!!!
Can you find a better 1 lb of food for $6? ?Hells no! ? LA has its Mexican food, NY it's Halal carts. ?It's all affordable but it's amazing how you can easily taste the difference between a good place vs. a great place. ?The Halal Guys are next level. ? Just my luck... no line on Saturday night at 6:45 p.m. ? Bed of orange long rice at the bottom, well done shredded chicken and cooked crispy lamb packed on top of the rice, served with salad on the side and pita pieces on top in a circle pan. ?Half of the tray is all meat! Drizzle two cups of the yogurt white sauce on top (looks like ranch, tastes like a combo between tatziki and yogurt sauce). ?If you can take hot, add one to one and half cups of red sauce. ?Like everyone says, this red sauce is lethal, way hotter than Siracha, Cholula, Red Rooster or Tapatio. The griller was nice even gave my friend a free tote bag! ? $6 crack... mmm...
eeeehhhhh not a food cart person but for what ts worth i walked away satisfied loool but if they had falafels id be happy
I go back to this place over and over. And I never get tired of it. Combo over rice, check. A LOT of red sauce (cause I love my food extremely hot) and enough white sauce to balance it out, check. A nice seat by the water fountain, check. There's a $6 happiness for you right there.
Although we showed up when the cart was scheduled to open, President Obama, yes you read that right, OBAMA, decides to arrive at the hotel across the street causing massive traffic chaos. The Halal Cart workers were all sitting around on the corner waiting for the cart to arrive while the poor cart driver was circling the block a zillion times due to the crazy street barricades. After an hour of slight confusion and waiting, we were finally able to get our grub on. // LOCATION // At 53rd and 6th (obviously) and a few steps away from MOMA. // FOOD // ? ? + Chicken and Lamb Combo Plate: Hot, steamy, and delicious. Don't have much to add that these thousands of reviews did not already say. The meat is juicy and tender. Lay on the white sauce for added goodness and go easy on the red sauce which is ubber spicy. TIP: ?Hit up MOMA on Friday nights (free admission) and when you are done viewing the awesome museum, walk down the block to this cart to experience chicken and rice amazingness. One of the cheapest and tastiest meals you will have in NYC
Good News: This is classic. I get the combo here which consist of "Chicken & Lamb over Rice" with massive white sauce all over my plate and a little bit of red sauce since it is very spicy. This place usually has a long line but goes by pretty quickly. This place is a good spot to sober up after a night of drinking. I usually eat it anywhere around 2am-6am when I'm drunk and hungry. I even stood in line once when there was a hurricane like storm going on, of course I was drunk and drenched in water but was satisfied to complete my craving. This is probably a 3000 calorie dish all for $6. :D Bad news: You'll be in the toilet next morning blasting it out of your system. haha
The ONLY halal cart I buy from. Whenever I have $6 in cash, I will make a trip to this cart for some sidewalk grub. Everything is delicious here. I prefer the chicken dish. Tender, moist chicken with some rice, a whole pita cut in half, lettuce, and tomatoes. This dish is big enough for 2 girls to share! I always do, which makes it even a better deal! OR eat half now, and save the other half for dinner. Always get the white sauce, it adds a lot of flavor to the meal. If you don't get it, you will regret it! If you DO NOT like hot/spicy, do not get the red sauce. I'm more of a mild/medium chick and always just ask for a little bit and they comply! Check them out, try them out, and you'll be happy you did for just $6.
Best cart food in the city! Love the chicken and rice!
Chicken & rice is good. Heard a lot about it from friends in the city. It's definitely food after a night of drinking. All the creaminess of the sauce, rice and meat make it perfect for those drunk munchies. We went on Halloween sat when it was freezing. Line wasn't long at all. They move fast and u just have to have cash. Put a ton of white sauce and a little bit of hot sauce (advised from my friend). It was pretty good, but nothing I would eat normally (at least not w/ that much sauce). I heated it up the next morning and it wasn't as good.
Damn, so you wonder why there is at least a 20 minute line or so for these carts. For only $6 you get over a pound a food. yelp.com/biz_photos/xEnN? Obviously it's the quantity here. The quality, well, not so much. After all it is coming from a truck and the rice was super dry. And with the special sauces, it does help a lot. I should have read the reviews on the red sauce. Now that is a killer. The white sauce makes everything taste better. Didn't have enough time to get another plate before I had to leave NYC. Good stuff.
Love it here. Worth the usual line. I love it even more when I take my friends along with me at weird hours of the day and they enjoy it too. Chicken and lamb combo plate is truly the way to go.
LAMB AND RICE! and CHICKEN AND RICE! Disadvantage.. I live in Los Angeles =( So good I even had friends who would visit NY to take some back home =) Tastes as if I was there.
Everybody knows this cart. If you say "chicken and rice" or "52nd and... what?" the taxi drivers know exactly where to take you. Even the Asian ones. Cheapest meal I picked up in NY. Not to mention the biggest portions! When my friends heard I was coming to NY, they told me that I COULD NOT, under ANY circumstances, miss out on picking up food from this place. I was actually a little wary to try it at first (nothing that's hyped up this much is ever that good). But I was totally wrong. What's most amazing is that it's literally just a cart... and the line gets ridiculously long. I got the combo plate (lamb & chicken). Their hot sauce is HOT!!! Amateurs like me scoffed at how tiny the hot sauce packet was, but one tiny sauce packet is MORE than enough for an entire plate of food.
5 Things: 1. The real one is on the SW corner of 53rd & 6th, the others are not remotely similar in quality. 2. There IS a way to cut the line, but you have to be a real NYer, or down with the hajis. 3. Lamb is the way to go. 4. In general, you should only be coming here after a night at flash. 5. If you use the red sauce (a must) it will burn the entire next day, no matter what you thought your tolerance for spice was.
Everything has pretty much been said about 53rd and 6th already. Best halal stand in new york...no wait..anywhere. Period. The wait can take anywhere from 2 minutes to an hour, even on freezing cold or rainy days. Portions are more than generous and will definitely fill you up. One plate can even be good enough for two if you aren't too hungry. The hot sauce is ridiculously hot so don't OD it, I usually keep it secluded to one corner. The white sauce or "crack sauce" is heaven. The platter probably is over a million calories, but who cares right?
So probably every New Yorker has been here and every guest who has been shown around by a New Yorker SHOULD have visited here. This cart is AMAZING. CHICKEN AND RICE WITH WHITE SAUCE and a little bit of hot sauce because it's REALLY HOT. Trust me. No matter how good you are with hot stuff, BE CAREFUL.. or say goodbye to your taste buds forever. This cart always has a long line but it's so worth it. When you take that first bite, you know it was worth it. It can taste a bit greasy and leave you with an upset stomach afterwards, but that's okay. It's so delicious. I crave it always. (Ex. right now)
Chicken and rice (although I get 'mixed with rice') costs 6 bucks. I pay 14. Why?......... I cross over the bridge from NJ to get it! Yeah man... its that good! I would cross over 3 bridges for this crack resembling food. This is a very highly debated topic, but personally I like 2 white sauces and 2 hot sauces. If your down for some fire in your mouth, I highly recommend this combo. There are 3 locations now that you can get the 'official' Halal Guys chicken and rice. Some people say that the original cart tastes better and wait on line. I say.. prove it. Tastes the same dude! Don't waste your time and get it from the shortest line cart. Don't waste your time ordering either or the people behind you will get pissed. Pick one... "Lemme get a _______" a) gyro b) chicken and rice c) lamb and rice d) mixed with rice Get your lingo straight and there won't be any problems... hehe Food is awesome... its basically a meat (chicken, lamb, or both) served with yellow rice and lettuce. Also pita bread to cool down your mouth from the hot sauce. Flavor wise.. its the bomb. Hot, savory, meaty, and most def filling. Texture wise.. its the bomb. Soft meat, chewy rice, and crunchy lettuce all clumping together with the white and red sauce. And a pita bread to cool that mouth down (water won't always do the trick). If your in town visiting, make sure you mark this place as stop point. If you don't, you will regret it.
After reading reviews from Yelp and hearing good things about "Chicken and Rice" from NYC, I decided to try it for myself during lunch and unfortunately, it wasn't as great as I thought it would be. They offer two choices of meat - Chicken and Lamb - and after trying both, I concluded that lamb tasted a lot better. The chicken seemed really dry and plain and I had to drown the entire plate with white sauce to make it edible. The lamb, on the other hand, tasted a lot better, but still wasn't extremely delicious. If I do happen to stop by next time for some odd reason, I will definitely consider getting a combo (both meats). It's a bit more expensive for what you get taste-wise and the portion was kind of large (for a small Asian guy like me) so if your appetite is small, consider splitting!
The gold standard when it comes to street cart meals in midtown. You won't find a better $6 option ($5 without rice!). Get it to go with two red sauces and two white sauces. I know it's been said too many times to count, but that red sauce is hot. For reals hot.
So, so, so good. And not that expensive! The stand opens at 730pm and we got there around 715 in anticipation. THere was already a line halfway down the block. People will and have killed for this place. It's that good. Tips: Always ask for an extra thing of white sauce. I went back later to get more and they accused me of stealing (I wouldn't blame people who are tempted to steal this stuff). And the red sauce is HOT (something akin to sriracha, but stronger), so add a little at a time. I learned that the hard way. I'd buy one and eat it there and buy another one for the road, but that's just me. And I got the "combo" with gyro and chicken. If you don't know what you want, you should try that one out first.
When I told my friends that I was coming to NYC, many of them said that I needed to try chicken&rice. I've been curious about this place for a very long time and I finally jumped on the chance to try it. We came here around 4am after a night of partying and stood in a pretty short line. Soon we were enjoying our chicken and rice and devouring everything. I don't know what's in the white sauce but it seriously makes all the difference in that meal. There are two carts across the street from each other but both are run by the same guys. "The Halal Guys." Good ish. One line is much shorter than the other but they are both serving the same exact thing. Just stand in the shorter line. You'll be happy that you did. SO GOOD.
A MUST TRY!!! WORTH THE WAIT WHITE SAUCE = AMAZING RED SAUCE = NICE, but use lightly...it is spicy!!!
Contrary to many of my friends and their reviews, I must say that this cart is definitely not the best the city has to offer. That being said it is above the general quality of random halal carts around the city. The highlight of the cart is alright tasting rice, shredded chicken, or lump lamb meat. The lamb is slightly charred so is a bit crunchy and has a good taste to them but it is a little too salty. The chicken is what most people order but it is actually quite dry even though well seasoned. The white sauce and red sauce is in fact what makes up for the taste, they generally smother your portion with a ridiculous amount of white sauce and a bit of the red. The red is really hot though and white is really thick. Honestly the best Halal Ive had is probably Sammys in Jackson Heights because of the better quality meat cuts. The chicken is not shredded and is cooked on the spot instead of being brought in and is not overwhelmed by sauce. However if youd like the experience you can wait 30 min for your alright chicken and rice but with all the choices around mid town these days like the desi cart, kogi, taim, etc etc.; Why bother for the mediocrity
If I had to pick my last meal on earth..it would probably be a hot steaming foil plate of Halal on 53rd and 6th. This place is so amazing!!! On my short trip to NYC, I neglected all the fine dining restaurants just for this joint. Not only is it the best thing you will ever eat but it is so cheap and they are so generous with the portions!!!!!!! I ordered the chicken platter and omg...it was definitely worth waiting in 10 degree weather. This is the only place I would wait in line for. Everything is so fresh!!!! I mean, they cook it right in front of you. They also have a lamb combo but I'm not too fond of lamb. The white sauce and hot sauce drenched all over the rice, salad, pita, and meat are TO D-I-E FOR !!! They also offer more white/hot sauce in little containers if you want!!! If you ever visit NY or even live here and have yet to try it..you're missing out big time. YUM YUM YUM!!!
I have been wanting to try this place for the longest time and finally after 3 years the wait is over.... Great late night meal. ?Tried the chicken rice for the first time and it was more than i expected! ?The chicken was perfectly seasoned and not too dry and the rice was also cooked just the way it should be. ?You must add the white sauce!!! ? But beware the hot sauce will light you up and sober u up quicker than having your mom slap you in the face. ?Don't say I didn't warn you.
I had heard so much about this food cart and yelp was full of compliments so I finally decided to spend my 1 hour lunch break walking to and from the cart to try the awesomeness. It was disappointing! I thought they would have more than 3 options (just had chicken platter, lamb platter and mixed platter) and as someone who is not fond of meat the 3 options were sad. I got a chicken platter. The food is very meaty - rice with just bare pieces of meat in no sauce or anything. I didn't have a good experience but it could be because of my specific food preferences. Regardless, I dont understand what the fuss is about
Fantastic food and cheap!
A friend INSISTED that I eat at this cart when in NYC. Best advice she has ever given me! 5 stars because: CHEAP giant portions delicious awesome I want to -1 star because I had to wait 45 mins in blazing NY heat waiting for this specific cart (it's the famous OG one, other carts don't have the wait) BUT I WON'T because it was so worth it. I chowed down on a lamb and chicken over rice combo plate, and it was so good I ended up eating the entire thing by myself (when people generally seemed to split one between two people). WARNING: if you can't handle the heat, don't ask for the hot sauce. TRUST. :)
DUDE, WHO WOULD'VE KNOWN CHICKEN AND RICE COULD BE SO ... DIVINE? Sniff, sniff, Oh yum. You'll smell like food from standing around the cart, but who currs. I ordered the combo because I had to try the chicken since that was supposedly the shittake and I personally love lamb. However, the chicken was definitely the winner. While I was devouring the chicken, I secretly hoped the lamb would transform into chicken. The tahini sauce is fantastic, as is the BBQ sauce and hot sauce. Yes, now this is what I am talking about when it comes to HOT sauce. Best proof that it's HOT sauce: Some girl drops the bottle and the hot sauce projectiles onto my face, into my hair, onto my shorts. Nobody notices that I was just ..kind of..covered in hot sauce.Yikes, BBQ sauce?--I thought. Eyes burning--fudgeee it's hot sauce. AHHH. It was next to my eye, not in --Thank goodness. You can ask for sauces to-go. I love chicken and rice because of this cart. Six dollars for a freshly prepared, well packed, flavorful meal with meat and veggies AND pita? HAYYLLLL YEAAAAA.
Reasons to NOT come to this Halal Cart: 1) You're on the hip new, non-Halal only diet. 2) You're currently not in Manhattan. 3) You can't eat rice. 4) You don't like to customize your food with sauces. 5) You live in a sad, joyless world. 6) You're stone cold sober. Otherwise, enjoy. ?Frequently.
The last thing this place (cart?) needs is another review, but here it comes anyway! The lines are long - even fairly early in the evening - but move quickly. Eaten separately, the individual ingredients and sauces tasted pretty average by themselves. But when you mix it all together, it becomes a foodgasm in your mouth! The famed white sauce (a garlicky, mayo-based sauce), hot sauce (it's no joke, so be careful), and BBQ sauce... it makes no sense how/why they go so great together with the food, so I just shrug and enjoy! Cheap, tasty, and open late - yet another gem in the awesome food scene of NYC!
Wow! Great quality and price, especially for street food! When my friend told me that she was going to take me and my friend to a street cart for food, I'm not going to lie - I was a little iffy at first. I trusted her judgment and we ordered one combination plate/bowl in an aluminum tin. For $6 we got fresh, hot cooked chicken and lamb, rice, pita bread, and salad. We also received some sauces on the side - a creamy, yogurt based and a hot sauce (it was a little more hot/spicy than I expected). The chicken and lamb have good flavor and some spices/seasonings to them, but nothing overpowering. The rice was well cooked and not heavily flavored/season so it combined the meats well. The pita looks like it is made from a bakery, but it was very soft and seemed freshly made.The salad was just normal ice berg lettuce, but it a nice little extra touch. We covered our dish in the white sauce and it is absolutely delicious! Tastes like homemade food and good quality. I came back the next weekend and took my parents here and they enjoyed it too. My boyfriend and I trekked here during a snow storm just so I could have him try it! Surprisingly, they were still open when it was very cold, snowy/rainy and the food was still hot and delicious as ever. They give you pretty good size portions, so I would recommend splitting one with another person, unless you're REALLY hungry! We ordered a pita also ($4) and that was equally as delicious. Expect to wait in a long line, but it goes by fast!
Can't complain about this place. It has great chicken/lamb with rice combo mixed with white and hot sauce. The hot sauce is pretty kickin so if you can't eat spicy, I'd either ask for just a little or skip it. There's also another car on the other corner with guys in the same outfit that I'm guessing is probably the same guys, but it seems like no one lines up there. I'm not sure why as I'm sure the other one is just as good (I'll have to try next time and find out). But for $6, you can't beat it. It's good as leftovers also if you can't finish it!
Pretty much everyone I know has been to this Halal truck and gosh it has over 2000+ reviews. Unreal. So with all the hype, you are bound to be letdown. We were headed to MoMA and figured this would be a good stop off for a quick lunch before tackling the Diego Rivera murals. The line is always insane. We waited over 20 minutes for food. Unheard of for a cart. I ordered the falafel and since they didn't have any on hand, we waited some more for a mysterious bag of falafels to show up. My friend got the combo rice dish. We both got red sauce and white sauce squirted all over our food. And for $6, it really isn't a bad deal, but it isn't what it's all cracked up to be. I found the rice to be flat and the white sauce was just too creamy for me. I didn't finish everything, and had enough leftover for another meal. Overall, a decent find, but nothing to really rave about. I have no idea why people love this truck so much. I am not a conformer and I wasn't sold on this place. But hey, try everything once in life.
Had their combination chicken and lamb with rice. It was very tasty and satisfying! Two thumbs up!!! I will definitely look for you guys when I get back to NYC!!! :)))
We visited this cart because it was recommended to us by a bunch of New Yorkers and may I say that I don't believe the stereotype that NY people are "unfriendly". Everyone we met who lived in the city we're extremely friendly and they even gave us recommendations on local favorites and this cart is one of those local gems. I wish we had carts like these in CA. The lamb was tender and moist. The rice was perfectly seasoned. The pita bread they used tasted fresh (I have had my fair share of stale pita whenever I buy gyros in CA). The tzatziki sauce (white sauce they used as a topping) complemented the hot sauce. ?If you're super sensitive to spicy foods, don't forget to tell them to hold the hot sauce. I can handle extra spicy sauces but their hot sauce is pretty potent, but nevertheless I enjoyed the hot kick. We went after 1pm and the line was really short so we were pretty lucky. ?My aunt says that during lunch time and rush hour, the line gets extremely long. I suggest you go during "off-peak" hours if you are impatient. I personally would stand in a long line just to savor their food.
Ate at this place last year during winter break with my brother and girlfriend. We waited a little over 45 minutes, but me and my bro both agreed it was worth the wait. Like many other people here on yelp, BEWARE OF THE HOT SAUCE!!! Me and my bro are both American born Thai's and have a high tolerance for spicy foods, having said that this hot sauce will annihilate your taste buds and have you chugging milk. Don't overindulge in the hot sauce, it takes away from the favors of the food. The only good side to excess death sauce is the rush of endorphins you will receive =D I recommend smoking a bowl before eating here to enhance your taste buds and your senses. Be prepared to wait. Dont over indulge in the hot sauce unless your just looking for an endorphin rush, and try not to stab anyone for cutting you in line (this has happened!) There's enough Halal to go around, so be patient, your time will come :D
worth the wait if it's your first time. lamb and rice is really, really good. but after a while you realize that you can get a gooood gyro platter elsewhere in this huge city too. [the guys on 25th and lexington are great.]
I was pretty skeptical about this place. ?I had the chicken and rice around Times Square, and it was very mediocre/average. ?I wasn't impressed at all, especially since it's just "chicken and rice," after all. I also had this at a couple of stores-they looked more clean, but were still very 'eh. And so, it was time to wait it out on the streets for this infamous halal cart. ?Luckily, we went during the Rockefeller Christmas tree lighting (we were inside, but realized being that close prevents you from seeing much) and walked on over here. ?There was barely a line-sweeet! ?We ordered, gave 'em our $6 cash, and loved how there was plenty of sauce you could dump on yourselves. ?White sauce, spicy sauce....it's unlimited. ?Not THAT is a huge plus, considering most places are very skimpy with their sauces. ?It can go a long way. And that it did. ?We also got a huger portion compared to the Times Square location (and I'm sure at other places). ?It was yummmmy! ?When you give, you get it right back. ?I'd definitely come here again, but I wouldn't wait in a long line, especially with this cold weather coming up. ?Hey, it's possible.
OK so who would have though a street corner halal cart could really be THAT good that people would stand in line for 1hrs+ on a blistery saturday night just to get some chicken and rice served to you in a tin?! Apparently many people... I have been coming to this truck for the past 4 years and live in jersey. I visit the corner of 53rd and 6th everytime I come to NY, (even if I am in NY for dinner). Occasionally I have found myself paying the 8 bucks to get across the bridge just to get this stuff.... It's like crack I tell you! The food is ALWAYS consistent and somehow ALWAYS tastes fresh... and for 6 bucks you cant beat it. One downfall, is there is ALWAYS a line but the line brings more anticipation for the yummy white sauce and super fire hot sauce and perfectly seasoned chicken you are about to enjoy... if you are contemplating this place, waist no more time and get over there! Its well worth the wait! (On a few occasions I have waited over an hour for this stuff!) There is other halal carts in the area, and although their no-lines may tempt you, I assure you they are not as good (trust me I have tried them all) so bring a friend and wait for this one!
one of the best food finds of 2010.. for me a least. . to quote my friend, "the more drunk you are, the better it tastes!." amen brotha. this halal draws a line like no other halal in NYC. .that says it all. it's lamb for me...but i mix it up once in a while. . and oh. just drench the whole thing with the "WHITE SAUCE!" will ya. to those who are complaining about the sanitation please walk on, it's a f'n food cart for cryin out loud. .you know how many people handle your food before it gets to your plate in ANY restaurant?
do i even need to review here?! ?if you found this business you probably already heard about it. ?located on the corner just outside hilton, you'll find cart food like you've never had before. ?the lines are long but they move fast and the wait is hands down totally worth it! ?come here if you're in the area and experience some halal yummyness. ?JUST DO IT!!!!
Okay let's get straight to the point. It's good, not AMAZING. And it's not worth the wait during the after bar/club hours rush. Why there are so many reviews for this place is because like most people guess, it's a rather quick and cheap eat and open till 4AM. Doesn't every thing you eat taste better late night especially while you're drunk? If you break it down, it's really not worth it at all. First the wait, then you hand over 6 bucks for what?--chopped chicken with some spices in it, over rice, and a few bits of tomato and iceberg lettuce--not the most nutritious or ingredient-expensive dish in my book. The sad part is, the "fake" carts across the street and the other ones selling the same thing all over NY taste the same. Go there once for the experience and say you've tried it, don't go back unless you have no where else to go and don't want to spend a few more bucks for a healthier and better meal not eaten on the side of a curb.
MUST TRY ! as everyone says, THE HOT SAUCE IS SERIOUSLY HOT! just 2 drops and ?your mouth is literally on fire (well, maybe it's just me but it really IS seriously hot and spicy!) the chicken and rice is very recommended, as you can see from the rest of the yelp comments :)
BEST DRUNK FOOD (although still ridiculously good even when you're sober). 1) Wait in line and get the combination platter, chicken & lamb, for $6.50 (cash only) 2) Smother your entire plate with "special" white sauce 3) Wake up the next morning feeling disgusted in yourself after having consumed ~2,000+ calories the night before 4) Repeat in 1 week
food was okay..not sure about the big fuss..the guys are rude...
let's start with saying, ALHAMDULILLAH there is such a place, hahaha! o man, this is the only time I break the giving-up-meat rule since April 2010. Still remember the first bite I had very clearly, and I know that was just the best ever! Wouldn't have known this place if my friend didn't tell me, and they were like, "and it's Halal too, good for you" (read: I'm a Muslim), funny since it's not like I used to buy meat that has halal label in it since I arrived to the US back in 2006. Here's the thing, I'm not bringing a label I'm a vegetarian or pescetarian (I still consume seafood) or whatever, but I know the only reason I'd eat meat again, is when I bring my body back to Manhattan. period. Ps: the food is so good I almost forget to say, YOU HAVE TO TRY IT!!!
simply the best! Love the self service sauces. ?The other vendors around the city could learn from these guys. Less Lettuce, and more sauce! ? ?Reminds me of that classic episode of the Simpsons where Homer gets Mr. Burns to give out plenty of tartar sauce for fish sticks. ? Give them sauce and you shall be amply rewarded!
It was well established with my friends before we all got completely shitfaced at Turtle Bay that we were going to the Halal Cart afterwards for some grub. After what seemed to be the most chaotic organization in getting 5 girls and one guy to walk down 3 blocks at 130am, we finally arrived!! AND IT WAS SO GOOD. Maybe it was cause I was so inebriated? No, cause I ate my 2nd platter (yes, I'm a fatty) the next morning (well, afternoon), it was still delish! P.S. - I'm so sorry I threw you up at 7am, lamb platter. I was drunk. Good thing I got 2 platters! P.P.S - SPICY SAUCE SO SPICY! This ain't no sriracha. I think I'm missing my bottom lip.
I just came back from eating one of their famous lamb platters. ?I have never eaten this type of food before and I am not a huge fan of street food, but after hearing sooooo many people rave about Halal food, I had to give it ?try. This food is no joke.....the combination of the lamb, rice and white sauce is so fucking good......greasy and probably full of fat calories but well worth it. For 6.00...U must try it once......sooooo satisfying!
fucking awesome! especially going late night when you're starving. def add some hot sauce, but be REALLY carefully.
Chicken over rice! ? I tried the chicken over rice this past week when I went to NY for a road trip back to LA with a buddy. ?After a night of drinking, I had to try this cart that I've heard so much about. ?It was kind of funny cuz I saw about 50 other "halal carts" with chicken over rice on the menu but I figured, there must be a reason why 53rd and 6th is famous.. So we arrived there around 2-3 am and there wasn't much of a line. ?Got our food quickly and started chowing down. ?In the moment, I was thinking to myself, this is good but I didn't understand the hype. ? btw, the red sauce kicked my ass... CRAZY spicy... Anyways, it was pretty good in the moment but now, back in LA, i find myself oddly craving this chicken over rice plate... ?good stuff!
I dont like to hand out the FIVE star too much but this place was just FANTASTIC. ?The guys there are really really nice. ?I ate here about 7yrs ago, before going to a JETS/Dolphins game, ?but I dont remember much, except that it was really good. ?This weekend we decided to try it again with my sister and her family, and she said to me "this better be good", haha. ?Well to make a long story short she got the combo sandwich and she was on Cloud 9, lol.....SHE LOVED IT. ?I got the platter and it was really good. ?We came here for lunch two days in a row and I got the combo one day and the lamb the next day. Both meats are really good, but I would give the edge to the lamb. Also, the guys are soooo nice. ?They took pictures with our kids after the line went down, and welcomed us to NYC (gave us a lot of ideas on what to see). ?I will always come back to this place when I m in NYC.....really good food and very very reasonable prices....really $6 for a platter in NYC, OMG, well worth it!!!
For $6, you get a nice big plate of food. Relative to the restaurants and other places to eat around the area, this is a deal! Open late, and even if there is a long line, it moves pretty quickly. Waited only about 5 minutes with a dozen or so people in front. So in a place, there's rice and some chopped lettuce, smothered with chicken and lamb on top. The sauces they provide is like crack; you just can't get enough of it. Definitely the place to go after a night out in the town, like drinking or clubbing.
i would come back and get it if they line is reasonable and the weather is good. their white sauce is definitely different from the other place i've tried. i think i taste creme cheese in addition to mayo. the red sauce is HOT!!! everyone already mentioned the portion size being big enough to split with another friend. lemonade stand nearby when we went. definitely needed to counteract the spicy red sauce.
We looked for this Halal cart since my intel who used to work across the street from the cart loved it. Soo worth it. You get so much for $6. Lamb, Chicken, Bread, Rice and the dirzzled white yogurt sauce. The line was not that long and I devoured the whole entire thing. This should be a city staple and a must eat if you visit New York.
real tasty, at a great price. ?i had a big bowl of meat only w/ some chicken, which for a normal person would be at least 2 meals. the chicken was kinda meh (typical lightly spiced shredded dry stuff), but the lamb was freaking awesome. ?I don't know what they put in it. ?Too bad it made me feel kind of sick and weird later :( ...I'd still eat it. and have. tasty sauces, but actually not really needed.
If you spill it, be sad. because they will not replace it for you. and because it is made of crack cocaine and God's laughter, you will need to buy another. if i were only able to eat one thing on my visits to NYC, it would be chicken & rice. ?do NOT put the hot sauce on there until you've tried it. ?it's mother-effing hot. two drops is enough for some burning diarrhea later. DO put extra white sauce. yum.
First time having this street meat and its pretty legit! No food poisoning after so that's a plus. We ordered chicken and rice, line wasn't too long but once we stood in line a huge line started forming behind us but they move this line very quickly. I think we ordered the falafel too just for shits and giggles. The white sauce was excellent as other reviewers mentioned and the hot sauce was good although we got it on the side. This is a great after you've been drinking meal.... we had some left over &kept it in the hotel room with no fridge gross I know, but hey it tasted pretty good in the morning ;)
does anyone know why the rice is the color of cheddar cheese? don't ask, don't tell. anyway... chicken, good! lamb, gooood! rice, gooooood! extra white sauce, gooooooood! the line is long for a reason but it moves quick. a hefty portion for $6. as chris t. said: "HALAL GOOD"!
Without white sauce, the food is only "meh". ?The chicken and lamb on the combo plate were spiced reasonably well, but the rice was pretty dry even after being moistened by chicken / lamb grease. ?I guess the few bits of lettuce are supposed to count as a salad, but I expect no nutritional value from that. Add white sauce. ?Whatever is in it, it's like edible crack. ?It transformed this dry meat + rice + lettuce dish into something with a bit of sweet and savory flavors at the same time, and I just couldn't stop eating. As countless people have mentioned, the red sauce is like death if don't regularly go for ethnic spicy food. ?I had some on a few spots of my plate, and my taste buds were VERY sorry. Surprisingly, for a meal that's just $6, they give you a pretty good amount of food. ?It left me pretty full; just a bit short of how full I would feel after a double double and a cheeseburger at In 'n Out. ?So, high marks for quantity. After we were done eating, we just happened to talk to one of the locals, and he mentioned how the owner of the original cart has expanded to 3 carts all around the corners of 53rd and 6th. ?Assuming it's true -- and the 2 carts on 53rd on each side of 6th did have the same logos on the side -- our jockeying to the longer line of the 2 carts just made us wait longer before we could load our tummies with grease.
Somebody please tell me if the cart located on the SE corner of 53rd and 6th is the same as the SW corner!?! Some people tell me yes and others say no. haha. ? But it doesn't matter, it still absolutely delicious and totally worth it! Chicken and lamb combo plates are the best! Hot sauce is EXTREMELY hot. ?One drop goes a long way! Be careful with that stuff!
I love lamb over rice, forget the chicken. ?This is the only place I get my halal food, and it's worth the wait.
Combo platter! Minimal hot sauce is needed
I am not a new yorker, nor do i want to be a new yorker...the hot dogs are good, the pizzas are hit or miss. ?there is something that isnt as talked about.... when i do come to ny i have to eat at this halal guys on 53rd and 6th. ?when i pick a place to eat, its never the cleanist or cheapist... its the place with the longest line. ?this place always has the longest line in midtown. ?Its so good i dont know how to describe it, i just wished i had one in los angeles! ?but i dont so i will be back to the big apple to eat at halal bros. ?the rice is always cooked perfectly and the chicken is moist and season with enough garlic so that you know your best friend ate some too, but not so much that you wish you were alone. ?there is this magic cream sauces with a little bit of tartness with a bit of sweetness.... ? just trust me,and try it! ?i will have my third plate tomorrow.
Chicken and Lamb combo is the best ?dowlas spend on a meal. "It is what it is"
It was pouring rain and we had just landed in NY from LA. ?Sunshine to a storm and we were starving after getting on the plane at 3pm @LAX and landing around 11pm in NY. We had just checked into our hotel and were STARVING. This hit the spot!! Yum, we got the lamb. ?We ordered two, but one would have been more than enough. ?It was delicious, but nothing I would wait in a long line for. ?I drenched it in the sauce and for the price and quantity it was a great deal. ?It's nothing spectacular--dont think you'll be blown away. ? But it is good ol street cart food and I woudn't change a thing!
If you are drunk or just hungry late night midtown, this is the only sane choice.
in the middle of the night in the cold, seriously, there's a line? i guess i'll stand in line cuz i want my chicken/lamb with rice... sigh... anything for good food... i waited to get back to the hotel room to enjoy it... sitting in front of the tv enjoying my chicken/lamb with rice... i think the lamb tastes better than chicken so next time, it's going to be just lamb and rice only! i've tried other places and this place is the best. some people might not think so but hey, good food is personal preference right?
After a long nite out, this is great. The lamb and rice, with white sauce=yumm!
Quite possibly my ALL-TIME favorite. I might move back to the New York City area just so I can have $4 chicken and rice from the Halal cart. The spicy red and white yogurt sauce is the perfect blend of heat, and the chicken is always marinated and juicy over a huge portion of steamed rice. Topped with lettuce and sliced pita, what more could a girl ask for? NOTHING.
Yelp don't play!!! A review on street meat!? I've seen it all...don't suppose anybody would have a review on the cart that used to be outside home depot on gunhill rd in 97'??? Lol...anyway. This cart was on my friend Diddy's Summer to do list. After a horrible double date with a short convict and a taller, non driving range rover driver we ended up here tryna make the best of it. To hell with it, she had chicken/lamb and rice and I had a gyro...No Bueno...fml...the gyro spot on 7th ave between 34th and 33rd st is the truth, white sauce is crazy! Check it out!
what everyone else said in their reviews, i agree.... -there are several carts along 53rd that all belong to the same 53rd and 6th halal cart group, but the main line is at the cart on 6th ave. -you can order the exact same food at the other carts, but most people go the the 6th ave cart, you might be inclined to go to the other carts when you see the long line at the main one but the line moves very fast so you'll be in line for about 10 min before you give your order -seems like the other carts are really here to just cook the meat, pack it up and bring it to the 6th ave cart, they are not really cooking the meat there, they are just reheating it, just watch as they fill the grill with precooked meat from their metal tins. -go for the chicken and the lamb, try the hot and the white sauces, try it all to get the full experience
Like every sad Cali kid, I crave this everyday and attempted to get carne asada fries to maaaaybe get a fix. Yup, definitely not the same. Who am I kidding, not even remotely the same! Anyway, best chicken and rice I've ever tasted. The white sauce was amazing. The red sauce was spicy so don't get too crazy. Boyfriend got the chicken and lamb and LOVED it. Went to the cart with the long line (wait isn't as bad, maybe like 20ish minutes?) and to the other cart across the street after seeing reviews that the carts across the street are from the same company or whatever corner I don't know. Just look for the yellow-ish shirts. They're wearing the same shirts so I'm assuming they're the same guys even though no one waits in line for these carts (I have no clue why). Like literally, there is no wait so don't hesitate to go to the carts with no lines. It tastes just as delicious as the carts with the looooong line!
Best street food you'll ever eat. I walked over on a Sunday night while it was pouring. ?The combination platter totally cheered me up from the dreary weather!
A trip to NYC would not be complete without eating some chicken & rice. ?The food is worth the wait despite the long lines at 3AM. ?The flavors are amazing and the spicy sauce is something I can't have enough of. ?If you visit NYC then this is a must!
haven't find any halal food better than this one.
i know this place is an institution, but i had to give it up years ago. ?it's too much to stomach, literally. ?years ago, my friend drove up after a party around 2-3am, and of course there was a long ass line, so he paid an extra $20 just to cut the line. ?kind of ridiculous to me. ?i get why people love it so much, but i think it's one of those things you love that you have to learn to give up. ?i will never come back here, maybe that makes ME lame. ?well, maybe if i get diagnosed with a terminal disease i'll get a bowl, but it wouldn't be my last meal. ?hehe.
I've had better. I know why you need so much white sauce, cause the food has no flavor. So you need their sauce. For street meat, its ok. But for lamb and rice, so many better places to try. Only good thing about this place, all hours available.
CHICKEN AND RICE and everything's NICE! It's all about 53rd and 6th!! After an amazing night out in the town, some of the locals kept shouting 53rd and 6th! We got into a cab and I said " YO 53rd and 6th" and the man knew exactly where to take us! This Halal truck has to be the best after hours place in NYC. It's very simple.. get the chicken and rice with the white sauce and you are set. The lines get pretty long after the clubs close, but the service is so fast that it is worth the wait! The meat is tender and soft. The rice is creamy and fluffy. The white sauce is addicting! It's a yogurt base sauce that gives the whole dish a one two punch of colossal goodness! I had it two nights in a row to help with the dizziness and the overwhelming amount of alcohol in my system. After eating this I slept like a baby! The service is fast, the quality of food is amazing, and the food is absolutely affordable! I want to come back to NYC because I simply didn't get to eat at all the different places I wanted to.. but one thing that will stay the same is my next visit to 53rd and 6th!!!
This cart is between 3 and 4 stars for me. ?It provides tasty cheap eats, for sure. ?I got the chicken and lamb combo. ?It was flavorful and moist, although it got more bland as I went on (as opposed to those foods that you embarassingly cannot stop stuffing down your throat well into food coma land). ?The white sauce was a nice touch, although to tell the truth it just tastes sort of like a modified ranch dressing to me. ?The hot sauce is very hot, and provides a nice contrast with the food. If I lived near this cart, I would probably eat there all the time, and it is certainly a good destination after drinking. ?But, it is not so outstanding that I would go far out of my way to eat there.
They need to open one of these here in SF!
I think this joint was over-rated, I've had plenty of great shawarma & halal places back in California about the same price. ?I'd even dare say I like the other joints back at home even better. ? The food here was good, had the chicken and lamb plate, the line went by really quick and the food was cheap. ?Great thing is that it opens really late at night, so after drinking a great place to drop by. I think its only great cuz its open late, otherwise there are other better halal places to eat for sure.
Yesssssssssssssssss.... ?Their hot sauce is epic even for a die-hard Korean like me. The turnover is high, which means you'll always get a freshly made sizzling plate. Mmmm I'm craving some right now.
The very first bite of food I put in my mouth when I arrived in NYC for a business trip was this aluminum dish of meaty heaven. After a flood of recommendations from friends, I trudged over to the cart dodging all the counterfeit vendors along the way. The fake dudes are quite clever too, they've replicated the vendor's cart and name, even down to the yellow plastic bags. But the real deal was easily distinguishable by the long line of hungry patrons! Verdict: - Fast, the line moved pretty quickly - Cheap, about $6-7 for a full dish of lamb and chicken combo - DIY sauces. D.I.Y. SAUCES. Oh my love. - I could put the creamy white sauce on all of my food for the rest of my life - The red sauce however? A tiny dollop was a fiery hell and made me almost want to cry like a baby. This is coming from someone who carries around a little bottle of hot sauce in her purse ... you know, for emergencies. It was definitely tasty stuff but not sure I'm over the moon in terms of all the hype around this cart. The meat wasn't bad at all but almost too finely minced, the rice was fine but it was honestly the white sauce that elevated the whole experience. Shouldn't each component be delicious standing on its own? Like out of this world rice, tender meats, etc? But it was still worth paying out of pocket for. (Couldn't expense it since it was cash only, wah! T_T)
The famous chicken and rice. I think another reviewer mentioned this as well, but unless you are super drunk, I don't think this place is as good as it is made to be. The white sauce is a bit bland (better when I mixed BBQ sauce in). Also, DO NOT put too much of the spicy sauce it. My tongue was so numb by the end of my meal. However, it is good and cheap so A-OK!
I don't understand the hype or the wrap around the block lines. This place is okay.... I understand that it is prob one of the best food carts out in Manhattan, but compared to a nice shawrma place, this place pales in comparison. The sauce however is awesome. Don't wait in the longer line, the food is all the same.
This was the first meal that I had in New York & omg ?the combo plate with the white sauce is ridiculously gooood! l just wished it wasn't so cold in New York so I could have enjoyed this a bit more. Definitely looking forward to coming back here the next time I'm in New York!
The Halal Guys serve probably the worst halal food in NYC, due to the fact that their meat (at least their chicken) is not seasoned at all and extremely dry. ?The white sauce - which is the exact same as the white sauce any halal guy gives out - helps one get over the lackluster meat, but that is no excuse for not seasoning or marinating it. ?The hot sauce is definitely the hottest hot sauce any halal cart serves, but that doesn't make it especially good. ?In fact, it isn't that good. ?Lastly, although $6 is a fair price for a big portion of food, halal trucks have all - and most still do - charged $5 for that same amount. ?Pretty much, why go to this bland place when there are so many other much better places all around - like Uncle Gussy's on Park avenue.
normally, i hate gyros. But for some reason, these dudes made me love it. They made the tastiest gyros i have ever had. EVER. All I ordered was a gyro with sauce. I don't know what is in that sauce but i effing loved it. It was like yogurt-mayo sauce that was delish. and the lamb was so flavorful that i couldn't even begin to understand what seasonings were there. Here's what i know, the food here is amazing. There is also a line here that takes like 45 minutes. The thing is, there are 2 more one block down in each direction, it's the same food. So it doesn't matter which one you go to. they' re all equally amazing. I love this place. LOVE. "Made with love" is a phrase i tend to use with food, this on the other had was not. They honestly don't give a damn. But this food was made with efficiency.these dudes, really don't care about you. but they care about that green stuff in your wallet. So they make the best food possible and i don't care about how rude they are. THE GYROS ARE THAT AMAZING.
This place is like crack... Or maybe I'm overly hungry at 4 in the morning after the drinking scene.. Nothing better to have this and then sleep it over. =) **HINT Don't put too much of that hot sauce if you think it taste like sriracha cause it's not.. It's super hot and might sometimes ruin your meal.
Oh man, I would've never known about this magical place had my friend not recommended it. There was a bit of a line but the food smell wafting from the cart was such pure heaven that I felt I was literally drifting toward it. The portions are enormous, the white sauce is heavenly, and it's ridiculously cheap. My tummy was in heaven afterward.
Omg I could eat this forever ... For 6 bucks this is a huge portion & the pictures don't do it justice
The first time I tried the Halal Cart, or "Chicken and Rice," was in the month of November wearing shorts. ?Yes, it was freezing outside. It's pretty cheap for the amount of food you get and it's so good. ?Be careful on how much red sauce you use but be sure to use plenty of the white sauce. The line can get crazy but it's pretty amazing how quickly you get through. ?These guys are quick. ?It's definitely worth the wait, even if it's cold.
best halal food. the later you go, the better it taste. hot sauce is like fire but sooo good. enough said.
Watch-out! ?There're a lot of imitation Halal Carts! On the way to this cart, one of the imitation carts called out to me saying they have the same food anyways, so why not eat their's?! ?=) Just make sure to go to the one right in front of the Hilton! (or else ask the locals-they'll point you to the right one) I went after a Broadway show, around 11 pm, and there wasn't much of a line since it was starting to rain. ?But a line usually forms for this cart around midnight. I got the chicken rice plate, which is $6. ?Use lotsa white sauce! ?The red sauce is soooooo hot, so use it sparingly! It's a pretty heavy meal, so I had to walk it off a little afterwards...
I LOVE love LOVE this place!!! Makes me want to live in NYC even more. Every time I'm in new York, I stop by THIS cart on a daily basis. I always get the same thing...1/2 gyro-1/2 chicken plate (comes with rice, salad, & pita bread) with lots of white sauce, hot sauce on the side. My very first time, I made the mistake of having them put that red sauce on my plate...oh no,bad idea!!! That sHi# is H-O-T! My friend who even loves the hottest of hot food said so. I've never tried anything else on the menu...cause what i order is just that good! For $6 very yummy and filling... The line is always long, but it moves quickly. Wish I was eating it right now! :(
Line moves quick so be patient! Must use the sauces or else it will only taste mediocre. For best results, be drunk.
Somehow I must patronage a food cart when in the City. It all started a decade ago when one fine day of endless walking suddenly screeched to a halt in front of a "chicken and rice" food cart somewhere in financial district. All I knew was it surely was a "sign" for me to indulge in - in Singapore, chicken and rice is the much loved street food, found in hawker centers (food courts) throughout the island. I'll not delve into the utter horror and bemusement of my then companions. Halal Cart didn't quite disappoint. Their Gyro was good although I would have preferred sliced meat than cubed. Don't ask me what they put in the white sauce but really liked it. You may want to skip the red sauce if you aren't into spicy....trust me when I say it's the king of hot sauce. I'm not too sure about the long lines but will probably give them a shot again if I happen to be in the neighborhood. My palate was satisfied and that's all that matters. I'd probably give them 3.5, but since there's no such option, a little generosity wouldn't hurt.
This food is cheap and delicious drunk or sober. People say it gives them a stomach ache the next day, but I must have some kind of a strong stomach cause I felt fine. I will say that make sure you know what you want when it's your turn to order. ?I was in line and on the phone asking what the people that were coming a bit late wanted and the guy taking orders almost didn't serve us cause I was taking couple seconds ordering.
Eh, the novelty of waiting in line for subpar food has kind of worn off on me. The food here is good, but nothing worth waiting an hour in line for. This halal cart seems to fashion their business model after Danny Meyer and his Shake Shack. Get people to buy something they could probably get the same quality for elsewhere (possibly cheaper) and definitely with less wait time! I'm going to open up my own shop in Times Square and reel tourists in by hiring people to stand in line to make everyone else think I'm important, then wait for the dough to flow....O and fyi, there are like four different "53rd and 6th Halal Cart" owned carts in the area. Don't just go for the one with the long line. (If you MUST go). There was even one on 53rd and Broadway today.
Have you ever been promised something, felt the anticipation build, but was sorely let down? Well, that's my fairytale with the Halal Cart. So many people have posted pictures and proclaimed their undying love for the chicken and rice dish from the famous 53rd St. & 6th Ave. cart that I HAD to put this onto our 'Must Eat' list. One brisk Thursday evening as we strolled along Fifth Ave., I suggested to the fella that we try the Halal Cart for dinner. Just like Grimaldi's, we had arrived just before the dinner rush came. After a short wait, I cheerfully greeted the employees and ordered two chicken and rice dishes. While I was paying, the fella was grabbing a couple of the pre-packaged white sauces and hot sauce to take to along with our dishes. Just as he grabbed the white sauces, one of the employees rudely yelled, "I give you sauce!" Now fully aware that we'll be given sauce, the fella put the tiny containers away. (The gentleman not only scolded us for taking the pre-packaged white sauces, but continued to scold others after us!) Minutes later, we got our dishes and walked off to a nearby spot to sit and chow down. I opened the container and...NO WHITE SAUCE. All I saw was the pita bread, rice, and chicken. LIES. Slightly peeved that we got scolded for no reason, I walked back to the cart, and kindly showed the men that we apparently did NOT get any of the white sauce we were told we'd receive. A different employee kindly nodded his head in approval for us to grab the sauces (1 container/each). Jeez! Anyways, we walk back to our spot to finally try this "amazing" dish. I took a couple spoonfuls to the mouth before I looked at the fella and said, "This is it?" It literally was just minced chicken and thin-grained rice to me. Which is perfectly fine, but definitely not up to par with its hype. ?The white sauce definitely did make things creamier and tastier, but I shouldn't have to conceal my whole dish with the sauce, right? Even if I wanted to, I apparently couldn't! Maybe if the food could redeem this cart of the disrespectful attitude that we came across, I would be more forgiving on the rating. Unfortunately, it can't be done.
Oh my lordy lord. All my life I was living in the dark...until I had a chicken and rice platter. I've lived in Los Angeles all my life and not once heard of "chicken and rice". On my last trip to New York, my friends were raving about it and I was so curious, I took the subway to 53rd and 3rd at 11pm to grab myself one of these infamous dishes. Although it was fuh-reeeezing cold, waiting outside and eating my chicken and rice plate with super hot sauce and a runny nose was absolutley worth it! Make sure you bring some napkins. Things can get a little messy with the white sauce... (insert sexual innuendo) Make sure you go to the right one! Don't be fooled by the phonies across the street. The men at the OG cart wear yellow jackets. Puhhhh-lease come to Los Angeles!
This place is seriously a lot of hype. ?I don't find it to be that good where it is a "must have". ?Now if you are going here after a night of clubbing, then you can't go wrong. ?But just as a normal meal, it's average at best. ?It is just chicken and rice, the same ol stuff you'll get at a greek joint or even Daphne's. What irked me about my visit to cart was the guy who gave us our food was saying he put in the white sauce. ?Well he didn't, and he didn't do it for a lot of people. ?Therefore people were helping themselves to the white sauce which is in the front of the line, and he would yell at everyone saying I put sauce inside. ?Well people were going up to him and asking him where, and opening up their bags. ?Obviously his mistake, the guy cannot put sauce in the bag when its at the front of the line and he is in the rear. ?What a moron. ?But the guy cooking was really nice, he offered my girlfriend the white sauce after I got yelled at.
I am Caribbean, 60 degrees is chilly to me. On a freezing night in November 2006, I and my fellow island people huddled together on an eternity long line for the promise of a tasty morsel of streetmeat. After years of subjecting ourselves to waiting in this line after a night of over exuberant clubbing - here is what I have to share: - Chicken and rice OR Mixed Chicken and Lamb over rice - If with a group, take turns holding the place in the line - Don't be fooled by the imitators peppering the nearby area - For sauce combos, go with white and hot or to mix it up go with barbecue and hot. - HEED: The hot sauce, no matter if you munch chili peppers and a side of scotch bonnets for lunch, is truly HOT. So unless you want to give the inside of your mouth a chemical peel, simply DASH the hot sauce for NO more than a 1.5 second squirt. - I have had this food sans drinking, it is still amazing - This is a one shot meal, do not try to store and heat up for the next day, it tastes like crap. - If you can share like a care bear, it can serve for 2 people. - Chat to your neighbours, it passes the time - Try not to skip the line, I have seen it tried... so gory... True story from the guy who stood in front of me in the line: They have run out of chicken in freezing weather. People waited in the line with icicles forming on their chin for some chicken to arrive from Queens. ?The line didn't budge.
53rd As My Friends And I Call It. It's Not As Good As Before. Guess Its Because They Are Well Known Now And The Quality Has Gone Down. We Used To Go To The City Just To Eat At 53rd. It's Like Going To The Grease Trucks If You Were In Jersey, You Just Had To. Every Time We Were In The City For Whatever It Was, Late Night Snack, After A Bar Or Club, Sight Seeing, We Always Ate Here And We Always Had A Good Time. I Remember When It Was 4 Bucks For The Plate And A Dollar For A Drink. Now I Believe Its 6 Bucks Just For The Plate And They Don't Pack As Much As They Used To. But When It Was Good It Was Really Good! The Mixture Of The Rice And Chicken Plus The White Sauce And Their Hot Sauce, It Was Awesome! You Have To Get There Early Because The Line Gets Really Long! Try To Beat The People That Are Getting Out Of Clubs! And Parking Is A Pain Sometimes! Maybe I'll Come Here One Of These Nights Just For Old Time's Sake!
Very nice atmosphere, outstanding service and tasty food!!! Recommend it!
I went to visit NY last year, and everyone and their mommas told me about this halal cart. SPECIFICALLY THE ONE ON 53rd and 6th! Hands down they are the best Halal Food cart in NYC. I know this because during my stay in NY, I had those drunk "I need food" after the bar cravings. I went to some of those other Halal carts to try it and also because I felt sorry for them, so I thought I'd give them some business. So I gave the other carts a try but I'm sorry I still feel the same way towards the 53rd and 6th Halal cart! Ooh yeah extra extra white sauce please YUM!
Seriously, need this be explained? 5 stars, because it's that good. ?This sh*t cured my cancer. You can't beat their white sauce/hot sauce combo, but the bbq sauce is a good change of pace every now and then. ?Be careful of putting too much hot sauce because it will seriously rip your butthole apart the next morning after causing a wildfire in your mouth. PERFECT food fix when you're drunk, when its 3am and no places are open, or if you're just around the area and need to taste glory in your mouth.
I think it's charming that these guys have a yelp page. But if a FOOD CART has yelp reviews, it must be pretty damn good right? I absolutely LOVE the Halal Guys. Make sure you don't go to the wrong food cart across the street. Look for their yellow t-shirts and bags! I'm not a huge fan with their chicken and rice, but I am in LOVE with their lamb and rice platter! Oh, and the hot sauce is for the adventurous. I took one lick of it and I was gasping for water.
Chicken and Rice is THE reason why I created an account in Yelp. ? Coming from LA, people always said NYC is a foodie heaven, but to be honest, everything else I tried other than IPPUDO NY has only been above average (I'm talking about Peter Lugers - ZAGAT rated best steak house in the US for last 20 years or so, Balthazar - 900 reviews on yelp, Lombardi's - "where NY pizza originated", Joe's Shanghai - supposedly best Chinese). ? I'm sure I'll find other awesome restaurants as I explore more of the city, but so far, top honors goes to Ippudo and the Halal Cart. Went for the Chicken and Lamb, and it was as advertised - chicken and lamb flavored to perfection, on top of just the right amount of rice, topped off by an amazing sauce. ?Will be back in NYC for this.
uh....it's 53rd and 6th chicken and rice...."chicken and rice, white sauce, hot sauce" - nuff said
I mean seriously...who hasn't been here...i had the serious crave one night and made my way over here.... Not a long wait but it was a hot evening and i made the mistake of putting too much hot sauce in my chicken and rice....Oh man...It was hot. But good food and inexpensive. What more can I ask for???!!
For $6 the best value in the city. Chicken and rice with 2:1 ratio of white to red sauce and you'll be set.
Late one blustery and wet NYC night, Yelp directed my wife and me to a food stand on a corner of 53rd Street and 6th Avenue. An invaluable tool for finding great eats, Yelp is my weapon of choice in my battle against food mediocrity. Although this eatery is as famous for its long lines as it is for its fare, on this rainy night, the crowd was a no-show. My wife and I shared a Combination Platter (chicken and lamb) that's served with rice, pita, and a salad. You can optionally add a fiery red sauce and/or a cooling white sauce. I like my food spicy, so I set my half of the lamb and chicken ablaze with red sauce. It was a delicious, satisfying, spicy symphony of flavors and an amazing deal for $6. The next morning, I (or more accurately parts of me) paid the real price. Here's a conversation my body parts must have had that night... Mouth: "When it comes to hot sauce, isn't more better?" Ass: "Wait a minute. Let's discuss this." Mouth: "More hot sauce. Nom nom nom." Ass: "Let's take a vote. I vote for more salad." Mouth: "Take one for the team you wuss." Ass: "Oh yeah, take this." [farts] Nose: "Gross. What's wrong with you?" Ass: "I am attention starved." Nose: "You're such an ass." Ass: "That hurts." Mouth: "Not as much as it will tomorrow. Ha ha ha." Ass: "Arrrrggghhhhh, I hate you all."
1400 reviews and this place averages almost 5 stars. ?It's funny...the cart is run by the halal guys. ?There are literally five carts with the exact same food within a few blocks, but this one is the only one with the line. I haven't tried the other carts, but I can tell you that I did enjoy this one. ?I didn't care for their side salad, but the rice and chicken is great. ? And that white sauce definitely goes well with everything. For $6 they give you a lot of food and it's perfect after drinking on a late night. ?The hot sauce is hot....you could feel the heat with a single drop. ? ?Overall....good times.
I don't know why there's such a hype about this place. To start, my friends and I got there a little bit before they opened and there was already a line. I didn't mind waiting, even though I was starving, since my friend already told me that the line moves fast anyway. The line did move fast. There's one guy collecting the money and the other guy for ordering and getting the food. It's not their service I'm rating 3 stars though: it's the food. The chicken over rice came in a tin foil pan, okay, whatever. But the chicken was chopped so fine that it kind of just mushed into the rice and sauce. It's a personal preference, but I prefer my meat to have some texture so I don't feel like I'm eating something grounded, which, honestly, can be anything. If this halal cart was maybe a little closer to where I work or go to school I wouldn't mind stopping by, but it's not so I don't think I'll be making the trek there.
I was lucky enough to get my combination platter about 10-15 minutes before the cart officially opened, so I beat the rush and my food was super fresh. Was the combination plate as good as all the 5 five reviews make it out to be? Probably not, but things might have been different if I came a bit intoxicated. All I can say for now is that the food was clean, fresh, and pretty satisfying. I did made the mistake of putting on too much hot sauce (D'oh!), so learn from my experience and TASTE THE HOT SAUCE FIRST before putting it on half your plate. One thing is certain, if everyone on the globe could eat food like this on a regular basis, the world would be a better place.
Ive been there so many times with friends. Cheapest drunk food you can get. Its a usual halal cart-chicken/lamb rice place.The only reason its famous is because of the ?white sauce. Its awesome. But then again how much of it can you have. ?Its surviving only by word of mouth because a lot of drunk New yorkers head there just for that 'crack' sauce.Yup. that's the nickname because of its popularity. The quality of lamb meat is poor. They look like cocoa pebbles or little pellets/dog food. The chicken is alright but sometimes feel its undercooked as they make so much at a time. Its really crowded and they need to open more locations in the city. How many people can you cater to from a street cart. The lines are sometimes a block long at 2-3 am. The quality of food is just ok. Its definitely worth a try. Go there when your sober and you may not appreciate it that much. Hands down the white sauce is simply great.
Long line but it moves fast and the food is great.
Combo (lamb is extra juicy/greesey and chicken can be dry so the combo evens each other out) with extra hot sauce! The white sauce is good but totally loaded w/ calories! eeeeeeeeee!
This is THE halal cart to visit - no other compares. I've never been disappointed - always end my meal with a great big smile and a happy belly. It's SO delicious! And don't forget the white sauce! ^__^
The Halal Cart at 53rd and 6th is a game changer for me. Aside from Per Se, it is by far and away the best dining experience I've had in New York (and that list includes several Michelin rated restaurants). The meats, rice, and pita are perfectly proportioned such that each bite is exceptional. And when you add on the white sauce, you're in heaven. Who would've thought that a $6 container of food could be so good?
Chicken and Rice at 4 in the morning ALWAYS will taste good! Great place to go after a night of dancing and drinking and sobering up. It's better than having some fried fast food joint and the white sauce is super tasty and pretty much sums up the whole meal. ?I'm sure after consuming so much alcohol, you are starving and anything will taste good. Great place to hangout outdoors with your fellow NY Party-ers. SUMMARY: 3 step recipe for great Halal Experience 1) Must be buzzing or somewhat drunk 2) White Sauce! White Sauce! White Sauce! 3) Have great company with you! ( Usually a good mix of girls and guys the best but any will do! lol)
Alright, my review may be a little biased because I am a San Diegan and our unofficially certified "drunk" food is the cali burrito which is by far the best thing to crave midnight munchies!! i understand that the halal cart is an east coast thing, so i was opened to trying it when i was visiting new york. We got there around 1:30am and the line was long as i expected. once i got the food, i was intrigued to be eating something that didnt come wrapped in a tortilla... anyways, the food wasn't bad at all. the bbq sauce was strangely good with the chicken and rice. the salad i thought was a tad bit random to put on a plate of greasy drunk food. the hot sauce was very painful to taste to say the least. but the white sauce was sooooooo good with the chicken and rice. Overall the meal was satisfying but i still think a cali burrito is better :) but this is coming from a cali girl :P
Two stars for 53rd and 6th. You must be appalled and shocked. Did I just destroy your standard for halal in nyc? Sorry, but 53rd and 6th destroyed my hopes and anticipation for some serious halal whoop ass in my mouth. For months and years I've heard all the great praise that gets showered on this one cart. I've heard of all the long lines, and all the stabbing, and the fact this even has its own wiki page last time I checked. So naturally, its fine time to try this place out. I order the lamb over rice, half-expecting the chicken to come smack me across the face for not ordering it instead, but all went well. The meat stayed on the grill and I remained with a not-slapped face. I was asked if I wanted to stay or to go, which is a question that still puzzles me to this day. The black stone in front of the cart doesn't exactly strike me as seating area, moreover when there's pigeon poop to be avoided. Anyways I say to go, and am asked what sauce I want. I say white sauce, as I'm far too used to having hot sauce on my halal and not being able to taste much three-quarters into the meal. So I just stick with the white sauce and walk about two blocks away and sit down on a bench. I begin my meal. The portions given were actually better than other halal carts for $6. It was more than I could actually finish as I later found out. The spices or seasoning of the lamb and rice didn't real stand out. What did unfortunately was the oils that the stuff was drenched in. Now I'm no stranger to halal needing a serious amount of oil, but I was barely halfway done when I see BP make a oil spill repeat all over the tray. In the end I had about a quarter of the plate remaining staring me at the face screaming, "YOU MAD BRO?!" Well I'm not mad, but I am saddened by how this cart's become the standard everyone compares halal to. Even Sammy's in Jackson Heights, which has decreased in quality over the years, still beats out 53rd and 6th by far. I've found Gyro King in Brooklyn to have a much more flavorful and enjoyable halal cart food. I was going to go with three stars, which meant A-OK. But then again two stars, according to Yelp's guidelines, means "Meh. I've experienced better." That being said, I knew what to pick. The hype simply doesn't add up to the flavor.
worth every penny
It's safe to say that this is the best $7 you can spend on food in NY. ?Just like I said about Katz's, I'll try anything that people can wait an hour in the cold for. ? I always get strictly chicken in rice with extra pita, since I don't eat salad or gyros. ?The white sauce is awesomeee and the red sauce is super hot, so be careful for that. ?Their sauces are so good, they had to start keeping them in the cart because people would steal it (both drunk and sober). ?They're open super late (4AM, I believe), so it's good drunk food. ?But I would recommend it any time of day. ?:] The cooks are always super nice to, so that just adds to the experience and makes waiting a little less excruciating.
if you're ever, EVER in new york you must eat at this particular halal. i think you have to go after like 7pm and the line is quite long but the wait, whether it be in the rain or snow, is DEFINITELY worth it. you have to get the combo plate with the red and white sauce, pita bread~ SO DANG DELICIOUS, i wish they had one in la ):
The best drunk food ever! came here after a night of drunken adventures..and was able get my order before the line started to get ridiculously long! Got the chicken and rice since i am not a fan of lamb..the white sauce was good and a being a fan of spicy food..i added got way too much red hot sauce that my eyes started to get teary along with a runny nose...i had to double fist water bottles to cool down the hotness and my burning tongue. But the worst thing is you cant stop eating because its so darn good! plus it just taste so much better at 4am in the cold! Just remember to add plenty of white sauce and a tiny bit of hot sauce then your good!
I came here twice during my stay in NYC back in March of 2009 and had the combination plate both times. The first time was SUPERRR good! I shared a plate with a friend and ended up wanting more. A ?few days later, we went back and each got a plate. Half way through, I had to stop eating it. I was either too full or getting sick of it. I still want to go back to NYC just to have some again. Sucks that they only open at night now. When I went, the line wasn't that long and it was during the day. Heard it's a different vendor during the day, but they look exactly ?the same to me. Wish I could get the recipe and bring it to SF. I'm sure it'll do really well in the financial district.
WOW!!! The combination plate here was so DELICIOUS that there mere thought of it makes me want to have one right now. The meat + rice + veggies + pita + yogurt and spicy sauce were perfect together. The serving size was so huge but I finished all the meat and some rice since I did not want to waste it. Since there were no chairs and tables around, my husband and I decided to walk over to sit on the ruby red steps by the Tkts booth in front of Times Square to enjoy our meal. A wonderful dinner with an awesome view!
Yummy! Worth waiting in a line for, but the night I went there, I waited for 30 minutes in a blizzard. I'm not sure I think that the wait was worth it in the storm, but I definitely would wait for it on a nicer day. Got chicken and rice - can't go wrong. Their lamb was good too.
Been coming here for about 5 years and the quality of the lamb/beef has drastically gone down. The meat used to be strips and now is minced wihthout any real taste, looks like grinded bits of bird food. Rather go to uknown gyro carts with real chunks of meat. But the pita,rice with the sauces are still good. Would recommend this to first timers, but to the regulars- time to find a new spot.
the hot sauce is actually REALLY hot. Get it on the side if you must, but go all out with the white sauce. The best Halal cart in NYC!
As others have said on here, the chicken & rice is beyond amazing. ?For seven bucks and change, they give you enough food to feed two people. ?God I wish these guys had a stand here in California.
one word: AMAZING. It is SO delicious! I don't know what spices they use but it tastes different from every other halal food stand there is in NYC. I wish they would open up a restaurant!! And the white sauce... man oh man. It just completes the meal.
I was attracted to this food cart stand because of the long line. ? So I decided to see what the commotion was and stood in line for it. ?I probably waited about 15min before getting this round aluminum pan filled with a couple of pita breads, lettuce and the chicken/lamb combo. ?Well I have to say that it was worth the wait and for $6, it's cheap. ?The chicken was tender and just right for taste, but what stole the show was the lamb. ?It was full of flavor and tender. ?Their white sauce (Tzatziki) is quite interesting and very tasty. ?It's lighter than most Tzatziki sauces I've had. ?They mixed it with a bit of mayo it seems. ?But it's too die for and it blended beautifully with the meat in my mouth. ?The pita bread wasn't all that special, but I could just eat the meat all day long. ? If you like spicy food, then be sure to put some of their red hot sauce on your platter. ?A little bit goes a long way, so be prepared for fire in your mouth if you squeeze too much of it. ?It does give you that nice spicy kick to the platter. ? This is definitely the best bang for your buck in NYC. Tip: ?The second time, I just got the lamb platter. ?You should probably get the combo platter if it's your first time. ?And try to get the exact change if you're just ordering 1-2 platters. ?The guys are super busy and they don't get to take the time to give you change if you're not ordering a lot of platters. ?And remember if you're getting it to go, they only give you 2 containers of the white sauce. ?You can squeeze as much as you want from the squeeze bottle though. ?And be sure to smother your meat w/ the white sauce.
Well it looks like i went to the wrong cart, because the real one gets there from 7:30pm to 4am and we went there at 6pm (not knowing). ?That sucks! ?The place we went to was called "The Halal Guys" and there were a lot of people eating there, so I assumed it was the right place. ?Oh well, next time I will read the Yelp reviews in more detail and also check the timings! ?The halal cart we went to had the same food (chicken + rice and lamb gyro sandwich), which were good, but not as good as what i was expecting (now i know why!). ?Will have to try again next time I am in NYC (Whenever that will be)!
Simply one of the best things I have ever eaten. ?Cheap, good flavor, hot sauce is tight. ?If you haven't been here make sure you stop here when you're in NYC. ?You won't regret it it's worth all the hype if you have heard it.
A few years ago I visited New York on a college trip. My friends informed me that I had to try this specific Halal cart. Being a vegetarian I didn't think that just ride and sauce would be a proper gauge of the carts food but I went with my friends anyway. While we were waiting in line the aroma wafting around, my Long Island ice tea sloshing around in my tummy, I succumb to the draw of red sauce mingling with white! I ordered the chicken and haven't looked back since. My waist line may not thank me but my taste buds do. Now that I live down here I have learned the obvious superiority of the lamb. My BF and I split one the last few times we were in the neighborhood. I want to go to MoMA just for an excuse to eat there again.
Waited 25 mins in line on a sat nite and was satisfied, but not blown away. The laaamb was tasty, but the chicken was a bit too dry, which is why u must drown the meat in tons of the yogurt sauce. You only need a few squirts of the fiery hot red sauce, unless u like your ?tastebuds getting synged right off. Overall, it's worth it to try once, but honestly not sure if it's that much better than the other halal trucks on other street corners.
I work in Rock Plaza and it's been our tradition to go to the Halal Guys once a week for a mixed platter. I'm not gonna tell you how freaking awesome and cheap this place is because chances are you already know it. Instead, I will tell you one fact to keep in mind: during the day, the halal guys actually have 2 carts: one on the 53rd and east side of the 6th and another one on 52nd and west side 6th. Be careful not to buy from the guys on 53rd and 6th (west side). They are not that bad, but I can't stand the fact that they are so shady that they even copied the colors and imitated the logo of the real Halal Guys. And they are a dollar more:) Stay alert and buy from the REAL HALAL GUYS! lol
You know at my age I shouldn't be eating two dinners a night or having a huge snack at 2 in the am....but it's NY so F it!!! These halal carts are everywhere but this particular one has a boat load of good reviews, it was next to my hotel and like of 5 my yelp friends all reviewed it. ?This was my 1st halal cart experience and my wife and I went back 4 out of 7 nights in NY. ?Sooo good. The lamb & chicken pita for $6 is the cheapest most satisfying meal you're going to find over here. ?Who knows how this stuff tastes in the sobering light of daytime but I don't care...I'm on vacation in NY and I'm gonna grind this stuff like I'm on death row!!
My sister recommended this place when I was in New York. ?The line was fast and I got the chicken and lamb plate. ? ? I thought that the food was good but it was dry. ? It needed a ton of white sauce to cover up that dryness.
The chicken and rice plate is so freakin' good! I say, really, really good! On this street corner, there are other carts that sell chicken and rice but you have to know which one is legit. The rest are legit, too, I guess but you have to know where to go! These "Halal guys" are manning the post only from 7:30 pm - 4 am. So it's a perfect place to stop by after a night out in the city. take a cab and get to this place at 3 am and there will still be a long line. No worries though because the line moves fast. For only $6, you can get really good chicken and rice, but it's the white sauce that makes everything come together. They should sell it in a bottle so I can take it home! You can sit by the fountains or you can bring it home when it's really cold out.. I'd still get in line even it's cold!! That's how good this cart is! Good stuff.
I would eat here every day of my life. ?Drunk, sober, doesn't matter. It's the only Halal truck to ever go to in NYC. ?EVER.
A must-try if you're visiting NYC! It's a lot of food for a cheap price! You get a container full of rice, meat, a few pieces of pita bread, and lettuce. I'm not a big fan of lamb, so I usually get chicken. The chicken itself is a bit dry, so add some white sauce to your meal and you'll be good to go. Don't worry if there's a long line because it moves relatively quickly and it'll be worth the wait!
Instructions: - Get the combo with rice - Add white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add some BBQ sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add more white sauce - Add a few drops of hot sauce - Mix the hot sauce into the white sauce lest your taste buds incur its destructive wrath - Optional: Add more white sauce - Consume When you're sober, these guys are pretty good but don't quite live up to the hype. ?When you're not, it'll make you J in your P. ?3.5 stars for the food, but I'll round up for the value and for the fantastic people watching late at night.
Hello AMAZING! This was something I COULD NOT FORFEIT on my trip to NY. I had this delicious treasure the last time I was there, and I just HAD TO HAVE IT AGAIN!!! There's something about holding that greasy aluminum bowl in your hand sitting wherever you can grab a seat and just inhaling your food covered in the white sauce and smidgen of the red (if you get a lot...you better buy all the drinks at the cart next door because you will be DYING). I want to eat this over and over and over again!! I guess it's the equivalent to LA's El Taurino! You get drunk somewhere then you go here to eat and somewhat sober up. LOL. I like it! Just my style! I will be back for you Halal Cart!!!!
I don't get what all the hype is about. I tried it once, had both the chicken and lamb. It was good, but it's not worth standing in line for. And I'm pretty sure I was at "THE" Halal cart. Maybe most people who rave about the food had blood alcohol levels that would scare away the cops when they ate the food. It is an after bar/club favorite after all.
As of this review thre are 2000+ reviews for this cart on Yelp with an aveage 4.5 star rating. Need I say anymore? Sure the globs of secret white sauce with mayo and yogurt in it (the guy actually said there is MAYO in there, yes) will give you coronary problems and the hot sauce will give you ulcers later in life but there are other things worse for your health. After eating this, I thought Halal stood for crack cocaine in Arabic, seriously. It's so good I actually eat half of it when I get home and save the half for breakfast ?^_^ ?yes really...In fact after I write this I think I will go to the cart and grab dinner tonight. There is also a cart across the street on the SE corner. It's the same owner serving the same food so don't believe those who say its not the same. I saw the owner working on both sides of the street. I've tried both carts - THEY ARE THE SAME. I just head to the shorter line. And if both are long, just suck it up and wait 15 minutes (line moves fast). And if you're really impatient, another cart is on 53rd and 7th Ave. Again, same owner/cart. This one almost has no one in line so the one negative is the rice may not be as fresh (I recall once the top layer of rice wasn't as soft bc it was sitting out for awhile but it was still damn good nonetheless).
During my trip to the big apple earlier this year.... ?I tryd out some very good expensive restaurants. But then i came along this cart on the side of a street. I saw people standing in line so i figured u would give it a try. I bought 2 plates for my wife and i. When we got back to our hotel WOW.... This was sssoo good. Best meal i had in NYC Cant wait for next visit to NY just to eat here again.
Most of the Halal food carts are pretty good but this one sticks out imho because of the exceptional white and super spicy red sauce. ?Thats not to undermine the savory lamb though because it is always delicious. ?It is also a lot of food for $7 too. I got my order of chicken/lamb and rice at 1 in the morning after a night of mischief and mayhem. ?It definitely hit the spot. ?The line wasn't nearly as long because of the time of day. ?I probably wouldn't be giving it 4 stars if I had to wait as long as many of the other reviewers said they had to wait. ? These Halal guys are definitely on my list of top late late night foodie places to hit up in nyc.
Probably one of the best cheap eats I've found so far in the city. Hard as hell to tell which cart is which though. I've eaten here twice so I'm assuming that I've eaten at least once at the correct location, hah. So far I've tried the chicken and the lamb. To be honest I'm not a fan of lamb, but the way they make it it's not too bad. It's definitely juicier than the chicken.. and with the sauce it can't be less than delicious. Lots of carbs and I don't want to know the nutritional facts on this one, but for $6 in NYC... c'mon now... it's awesome!
Warning: (1) the Red Sauce is extremely spicy, if you accidentally pour too much (dime to nickel size is enough for starters) be generous with the white sauce. (2) the food is addicting (I've had to order a couple plates before a road trip to boston for a fiending friend)
The food is good here. Way better than all other carts in the city. It's not amazing. I'm still looking for the ultimate shawarma/Doner in the city (there are a few places that come close). This is not better than a really good shawarma. They have a pile of chicken and a pile of lamb and orange rice (I think it's cooked in saffron). They give you some rice and some meat and some pita. It's tasty and it's a good quantity of food. The hot sauce is probably the hottest sauce I've come across in NYC. It made me nauseous. I'm dealing with the consequences today. The red sauce on the side of the cart is not hot sauce, I think it's ketchup. The hot sauce has its own section above the other sauces that says "Caution, very hot!"
Apparently I made a rookie mistake by squeezing the hot sauce ALL OVER the chicken and rice. My entire insides burned when the food went down..... but despite that, I was hooked! The spicy hot sauce, the mysterious white crack sauce....mmm We were in town over the weekend, and we went 3 times. The third time, we bought 6 of em to go with us! To summarize: SO GOOD
great food for cheap. use white sauce. it's worth the health problems.
I swear these guys put crack in their food... or at least in their secret white sauce. I'm completely hooked and am going through withdrawal right now, ever since I left NY. On my first try, I had their lamb wrap... but I should have gone with their chicken platter like everyone else. It's a whole tin plate full of yummy goodness: rice, chicken, lettuce, 2 pieces of pita and all the white sauce you've dreamed of (not a big fan of hot sauce). I just completely cover the top with the white sauce and let it do it's magic. It's like all my taste buds are doing a little happy dance every time I put of spoonful of that perfect compilation in my mouth. Mmm mmm... One taste and you'll be hooked too, especially at a cheap price of $6 per plate. No wonder there's always a line.
I was just in NYC this weekend and my native New Yorker friend said we had to go here! 1. Cheap! $6 combo! 2. Delicious! I have had some halal food in Philly but never tried it anywhere else, but this set my standards so high! 3. It's like they planned it and wanted to make sure there was seating for their customers. 4. Serve yourself sauces?! Brilliant. I put too much hot sauce and had to run back and get some more of their white sauce, so good! and on that note, I am about to go reheat the leftovers because it was so much food I couldn't finish it. The end.
I've been hearing so many people raving about this Halal cart but I was quiet disappointed. We went on a cold winter night so the line wasn't long at all. I got the chicken and lamb over rice. The chicken was very dry and tasted like chicken that wasn't seasoned right or fresh, and had a "chicken taste" to it, if it makes any sense. ?the lamb was just ok too.. I really don't get why people love this cart over the other halal carts in the city I personally had better Halal food somewhere else
Ambiance: 1/5 Service: 2/5 Food: 4/5 (only with a LOT of white sauce and a few drops of hot sauce) 53rd and 6th. The staple snack of all midnight drunks. ? Quick, tasty, and always a good crowd, this Halal Cart stands out from the rest with their great white sauce. ?Creamy, rich, and ever so subtly...rich. ?Yea, weird, but you'll understand when you bite in. ? But to make a point, they are NOT the best. ?They are VERY good. ?But that is because of the WHITE and HOT sauce (and the bit of pita bread they throw in), not because the rice/salad/meat is anything too special. ?If you like lamb, I'd recommend going to kwik meal in the morning. ?They use actual chunks of lamb, not the lamb loaf other halal uses. ?I come here mainly for the sauces. ?They ARE great. ? Tip: They REAL halal guys come out after 7:30pm. ?The morning are other guys.....though they are quite good too. Tip: Hot sauce is very spicy, dont just drench the platter in hot sauce. Tip: Ask for a mix box if you want lamb AND chicken. ?Same price.
love this cart.. have been eating here for a loooong time. such cheap full meal.. def worth the wait.. def something to crave late at night.. you get rice salad chicken meat and their white sause is amazing
Street food. ?Good street food. 'nuf said. OK, long version: tasty, clean, fresh, hot, and not heavy. ?Grabbed the chicken and rice dish. ?It comes in a tin with some rice, veggies, and a whole lot of meat. ?For $6, you can't beat the value. ?Next time I have to try the lamb and maybe the falafals. ?The spicy sauce isn't that spicy, so I'd go pretty liberal with it next time as well. Only reason I can't give a fifth star is because it was difficult to find a place to sit and eat (and enjoy) because there were so many freaking people eating the stuff!!! ?OK, I'll give them the fifth star because they don't rip you off... they sell at a price comparable to a meal at McDonalds but much healthier. Also looks like it's a bit of a chain with all the look alike kiosks in town. ?Anyhow, the guys on the west side of the intersection were the ones we bought from. ?You know you have the right one when you compare the length of the lines with all the other halal carts out there. Yelp says they're open from 7:30PM-4am... well, they seem to be there a lot earlier than that. This is a definite recommend!!! ?Two thumbs and two very happy grin tips up! Your wallet will also be happy. ?I haven't seen this combination in a while. ?Can you guys open up in LA? ?Maybe near my office?
It might be the sauce, but dang this stuff is good! ?(never thought I'd be so excited about a halal cart, haha...) ?Tried the combination one (chicken + lamb) and it was definitely delicious... seriously tasty! The BBQ sauce is awesome, make sure you add enough along with tons of white sauce. ?As for the hot sauce though, they weren't kidding when they said HOT - use with caution, and very sparingly!
Freakin amazing street food. ?Great place to go for after club food. ?I would kill for some chicken and rice and white sauce right now. ?Next time I visit New York, I have a date with you, 53rd and 6th Halal cart!
This place has got to be one of the gems of the city. As far as I know, everyone who comes to visit NYC is immediately recommended this place, and once they try it...its all overh ahaha. I've been to 53rd and 6th in every type of weather condition, and never once regretted the 15-20 minute wait on line. The rice is amazing, the chicken is okay, but once its drenched in that super yummy white sauce (you better put bbq sauce too) you're on another planet with that first mouthful. You have to be careful that you don't put TOO much sauce, though, cause it can be overwhelming. I used to ask for it without the lettuce because I thought I could finish the whole thing and wanted the extra rice...I was young and didn't know any better. Sadly, I can't finish the whole thing in one go -_- So I started getting it with lettuce. Finish it off with a nice cold Dr. Pepper and you've got the perfect meal :]
Honestly, not event willing to put a star. Those guys are horrible. The food stinks and makes every one sick. The food stands outside, even on the floor. The floor is dirty at this place. Pigeons are all standing close by the cart. To make it short, it is a nightmare.
how else can you get a pound of food with meat, bread, dairy and vegetables all for the low low price of $6 which is completely unheard of in new york??? ?Chicken and rice is da bomb! actually it does feel like a bomb in your gut but it's nice to have a meal that actually makes you feel full unlike all these restaurants trying to serve food in ounces instead of pounds. ?And the fact that you no longer have to wait because they've branched into multiple other carts (just look for the guys with the yellow shirts) and you can have it day or night. ?If you have to hit a cart in the city, this is the one to hit.
amazing~!!!!!!!!!!!!omg~! ?lamb platter is the best! I almost drop my tears for it
What can I add to everyones comments about this place....Been a patron for years now and it has never failed me. In my opinion, of all the late night food joints in all the cities I've been to, this by far is the best. I'm not a fan of lamb so I get chicken and rice.....with a whole lotta white sauce and a dab of the red sauce....You will die if you eat the red sauce like its ketchup. Just a warning! I know plenty of people that have had their chicken and rice ruined by using too much red suace....A little tip - on crazy nights where the line is really long, go to the south east corner of 53rd and 6th.....they are the same guys with the same yellow tshirts, same white sauce and the same food....usually a shorter line...
Theres no need for me to even review this place with thousands of people who have already done so. But I'll keep it simple unlike other people and their paragraphs/ essays Pros -long line but its FAST -$5 and its worth every penny -great food! quality chicken/ lamb -Have been around for over a decade(most famous halal food in NYC hands down) -BEST in NYC hands down -best white sauce -BEWARE of the hot sauce! -ALWAYS there from sunset to sunrise! Cons - don't go on sunny hot days during peoples lunch hours or during the 4th of july or other occasions. -thats when the lines are ridiculous.
Before my trip, all of my friends recommended trying this infamous halal cart. Honestly, I didn't think some chicken/lamb over rice dish could be THAT amazing, but boy was I wrong. The meat was cooked to perfection, I liked the lamb a lot more than the chicken, though both were really good. As our friends suggested, we drowned our food with their white sauce. We forgot to use the red spicy sauce unfortunately, next time I will keep that in mind. And best of all, $6 for a huge platter and very generous amounts of meat, what more can you ask for?! This is a MUST TRY if you come to new York!!
New Yorkers can be a cantankerous lot. It's hard to imagine any of them voluntarily standing in line late at night in the middle of winter with out-of-towners, food bloggers, drunks, hipsters, and the bridge-and-tunnel crowd for anything. So when I serendipitously happened across an eclectic trail of people who looked like they had come straight out of The Breakfast Club, all patiently waiting to order food from a cart, I knew I had found the holy grail of New York City street meat. For a mere $6 I was handed a steaming hot tin of Halal chicken and lamb over rice. The whole thing was practically the size of my head! The chicken was tender and satisfying, though it probably could have used more seasoning, but the lamb and rice were out-of-this-world delicious! What brings the whole plate together is the garlicky-lemony white sauce, a kind of tzatziki on steroids, which is an absolute must and needs to be applied liberally. But ultimately, it is the addition of the harissa-based red sauce that makes this place so addicting to me. Once my tastebuds came into contact with this fiery drug, I literally could not stop eating it. Maybe it was because it kept my mouth from blowing up, but that is also what makes this cart oh so mouthwateringly good. Just make sure you go to the right one, because there are a lot of impostors in the area!
Over-hyped. You can find better chicken and rice elsewhere. I haven't tried the lamb, but the chicken is dry and bland, and you really need that sauce to make it go down easier. Nonetheless, I have to say that the cart is a grateful sight when you're hungry at 3am and stumbling through the city. It really hits the spot.
im writing this review not because anyone cares at this point what i have to say, how this stuff is made of crack, how its the most amazing thing to exist past 2am etc etc etc. i just wanted to be part of the 'in crowd' and pretend i'm in the know and i feel like reviewing chicken and rice is achieving a badge of cool new yorkness--am i being too hard a wannabe? i was already crashed out in the wrong hotel room (all friends at a conference---nothing gone wild) but was lured back to my room with the promise of this mythical chicken and rice. three of us shoveled it into our puffy asian glowing faces while pieces of rice flew all over my hotel bed cover--notably around me (i'm not only messy, but aggressive) someone ended up sleeping at the foot of my bed and benefited from the occasional rice falling into his snoring mouth whenever i tossed/turned in my sleep. i'm sure he had visions of chicken and rice---best visions ever.
Omg memories from Summer '10 I seriously did not know they were on Yelp!!!! I believe I came here after a scavenger hunt in the city...BEST HALAL FOOD EVER!! If you are reading this...get the heck up and go...dont mind the cold!!! Seriously they give so much food and extra chicken for FREE YALL!!!! I remember there was a long line and it had to been like 12am!! I actually didnt finish it all but I gave the rest to a homeless man, I bet he was estatic! After that day, I NEVER ate halal food off any cart besides this one!!!
OH MY GOD! Is this stuff good! After reading all the reviews I had to hit it up for lunch. I always saw all the crazy lines for this place - in rain, wind, heat, cold - and wondered if it really was that good. Had the chicken with rice plate with that crazy good white sauce and pita. Guys who work the cart are all business so just tell them what you want, grab your food, and move along. I am stuffed! IT IS REALLY THAT GOOD.
This is not your average street meat! For $7, you get a party in your mouth...and a whole lot of it! I got the combo lamb and chicken, and there was enough meat to feed a family. The rice was delicious, the white sauce was the best I've had, and ?just the whole combo of flavors come together to create a truly tasty meal. I didn't have to wait very long (maybe 15 minutes), but I definitely would wait longer if I were in the mood for some real quality halal food. This is on my list of best things I ever ate!
Halal Dudes, how I love thee! My food cart virginity has been swept away by a group of guys in a cart! Sounds a little kinky, huh? Well it was, it was on orgasmic $6 plate of food. I loved the lamb and rice smothered in white sauce. Being utterly famished at the time of mass feeding may have had something to do with my ?final conclusion. But, despite these small factors, for "street meat"...this is good stuff!!!!!
I've eaten here 5 times over the several years I've been working nearby and its no coincidence I've had the runs all five times. The food taste great but somethings not right if it sends you to the bathroom. My stomachs far from weak and being that I work a block away my coworkers who've had same issue are proof I'm not an isolated incident. The lines for halal guys are always insane so food doesn't sit long, my guess is they must be using poor products or maybe that white sauce is a laxative I don't know. I say steer clear although even though I know plenty of people who don't mind the trade off of tasty inexpensive platters for the upset tummy that follows.
I don't know why I like this place so much since it doesn't have green sauce, doesn't sear the gyro and serves soggy pitas. ?All I can say is that something magical happens when you combine all the ingredients and sauces and it just works. ?Don't be fooled by the imitators, go for the guys with the distinctive logo (not just similar color) on their plastic bags. Gyro: Ground meat pebbles that are so juicy (i.e. fatty) and oh so tasty. ?Not seared like the competitors, but so soft it's like it's been steamed. ?Not a fan of this naked, but loves it with the white and red sauce. Chicken: Big chunks of firm dark meat. ?Light on the spices allowing the inner moisture to excel. ?Once again, a perfect match for the sauces. Pita: Steamy and soggy. ?Pretty nasty way to have a pita, but works strangely well in the plate. ?Kind of like how you never thought dipping a hamburger in a milk shake would be tasty. Rice: Yellow, fluffy, not clumpy, firm and tender. ?The way a proper pulao should be.
If only I can ship you over to San Francisco right by my work. I don't care if I can't handle spicy.... please drench the red with the white sauce buddy. ?My right hand is used for scarfing down the lamb and rice ?while my left hand acts like an intermittent windshield wiper blotting my face dripping with sweat! The first time I had you I stopped and smiled. A local passing by glanced at me eating on a bench and also smiled. She knew it was my first time. We've been inseparable ever since. LOL
Believe the hype. ?The Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th is THE Halal cart. ?Also probably the cheapest and most fulfilling meal I had in New York. ?You get a heaping plate of rice, your choice of lamb or chicken, and pita bread for a mere 5 bucks! ?I prefer the chicken plate, with lots and lots of sauce! ?You must not forget the white sauce... not sure whats in it, but it's delicious with every bite. Don't be intimidated by the long line. ?They've got 3 or 4 guys running the operation, so it goes by fairly quickly. ?Rest assured, it is worth the wait. Next time I visit New York, this will definitely be my first stop.
If you are an NYU student, don't waste your time making the trip more than once or twice. If you are drunk and looking for quantity (which is often the case for myself) than this is the place to go. However, the cart right outside of Palladium is much more flavorful and will save you time and money. Only downside is you don't get to have as much fun covering your meal in white sauce yourself.
Got dragged out here at 2 in the morning by 2 gfs who would not stop raving about this place. Since I was leaving NYC tomorrow, I figured... Why the heck not? Wow I am glad I went. The chicken was good but the sauces were killer!!! Make sure you ask for more sauces to go; only one out of the three of us did and we were seriously savoring every last drop of it. Some says the hot sauce is too hot but it was just right for me. Tasty!!!!
OMG!!!!! I had the chicken plate and it was delicious! The white sauce was HELLA good. I didn't get the food from the "original" one instead I got it for lunch. Of all the places I ate at when I was in New York, this was theeeee best food. My friends and I bought the food the day of our flight back home and one of them brought a whole plate back! YUM!
**FIRE SAUCE WARNING** no joke - add it one drip at a time, or you will hate your experience. OTHER DISCLAIMER there is a competitor there that is trying to steal their biz. don't be fooled. the original has the yellow bags and a diff sign on their cart. Holy jesus. I'm arabic and I think I know good halal. This shit is as real as it gets. The tahini or white sauce, is really great. so flavorful and doesn't taste to watered down. The fire sauce, is, a bit to spicy for me. I think they now have 3 different carts there.
AMAZINGGG!!! I visited New York for the first time a couple months ago. My friend that I was with said we had to try food from this place. I trusted her recommendations since I've never been to NY before. The lines for this place are crazy! Well, late night that is..since that's when we seemed to go. A lot of drunk people come here for late-night food. But whether you're drunk or not, this food is DELICIOUS! The first time, we got the lamb & chicken combo. It was YUMMMMMMYYYYY! I prefer the chicken over the lamb. ?So the next couple visits there, I chose the chicken. DON'T FORGET THE WHITE SAUCE!! It's AMAZING. We drenched our plates in the sauce. ? So much food for only $6! DONE DEAL. I can't wait to visit NY again so that I could get food from the Halal Cart! :) Oh how I wish there was a halal cart in SF. Note: Cash only!
Oh man how I miss this place. How can you beat a 6 dollar rice plate lunch. I dont know how they cook their chicken but its so tasty. ?Every time I hear a friend goes to NY I tell them you got to check this place out. I know its a street cart but dude its so freaking good. ?And of course they thank me when they come back. It would be better if they would have brought me a plate back. ?It was weird cuz I would hear about this cart night and day when I would be walking thru the street. Whats the big deal. ?Now I know. ?Love the spicy sauce and what looks like ranch dressing but not. ?Oh and the falafel balls are crunchy on the outside and moist in the inside.. ?I look and look around the bay area but nothing comes close to what they serve. ?We will meet again on my next adventure to NY.
I personally did not absolutely adore this Halal Chicken cart meal so much as to award five stars, but the boy thought it was possibly one of the best meals New York could offer. Apologies to Morimoto, Gordon, and even to you, Thomas Keller. Apparently you guys have nothing on these Halal Cart boys. So, there we were, one of us zealously ecstatic to stand in line with other equally enthused famished patrons, and the other freezing her ass off. I'll admit that the aromas really were quite inticing ?And the promise of at least 3-4 pounds of (messy saucy savory) grub for $6 is quite a steal. Such is the allure of street food. This location seems to be the busiest, since it is the original cart (or so I've been told). Expect a bit of a wait at 2am, or find another cart within a block or two with half the line.
wow! I'm surprised to see the rating is almost like per se here Halal is everywhere in NYC. Honestly there's no big difference between those sold in this cart of other cart at corners in Manhattan. Personally I enjoy the chicken over rice whenever I visit it. It's the long long long waiting makes the experience special. ?And the final food in hand is like a prize to show off! And you can't complain for something you waited for that long right? Its business hour is also attractive to me too. -- Man it's so hard to find yummy food at that area than area below 14th street. There's a new Halal opened close to my place which tasted no difference to me. So I'll probably forget the 53rd 6th one. To tourists, it still worth a taste. I mean sitting in public area eating cart food is one the things I really appreciate living in NYC. And if you find my rating somehow trustworthy, please stop by any Halal cart you encounter to, and pick the chicken over rice, saving your time to visit more place.
Wow what a treat. ?My buddes recommended this place to me so I looked it up on yelp. My one extra review may not help but I have to say how great this place was. What a bargain. ?I wish I knew how to have this shipped home to Texas.
I'm convinced this place is all hype now. ?When I first had it five years ago, it was amazing. ?Over time, it seems this place gets worse and worse. I think the owners have became complacent. ?They see the long lines night after night, and they feel they have a winning formula. ?The chicken and lamb is brought in these huge stainless steel tubs from a truck. ?It's warmed up on their grill and served to hundreds of people who line up for just a bite of their $6 platter. It also seems as if the owners have franchised or licensed their name out to other halal carts. ?There are now about 5 or 6 halal carts that sell basically the same thing using the same formula. ?Hardcore fans say that it's not the same as the original -- I've tried the original many times and I have to say, the three or four copies are nearly the same as the original. The white sauce was amazing the first time around, but I soon found out they use heavy mayo to make it. ?That's why it tastes so good.. I'm not too convinced on the taste anymore. ?The chicken seems too dry. ?The gyro meat seems too greasy. ?It's still a good value considering you're getting all that food for $6, but for me it's not worth it. ?I feel that the quality of the food is below average and the occasional stomachache the next day is not worth it.
I am not one to ever eat from a cart or wait in line, but I make an exception here. Sometimes when you had a long night out in NYC and you're hungry but don't want to go eat at a 24 hour place this is the go to place. This cart is always packed so yes it is that good. The chicken and lamb gyro over rice with lettuce and pita is so delicious especially if you drench it in their white sauce and hot sauce on top! Another big plus here is that it's always very clean and the food is super fresh!
I live in nyc just for this... I can't live without it. it's cheap for the amount they give you.. i can barely finish a whole plate so i always share with my friend which means we pay 3 dollars each for the world's best chicken and rice! that's says it all :) you might not like it at first, but a month later you're going to randomly think about it and want it.
You.give.me.gas. BUT, you are delicious, and you are cheap. Love me.
Lamb was amazing, but the chicken was fairly ordinary. ?White sauce would be a wet dream for anyone who loves high-fat content sauces, but I think it just took away from the taste of the lamb (the combination of ground meat coated in white sauce with orange rice also reminded me of all of the vomit I've been seeing on NY sidewalks). ? Perhaps the greatest surprise was that the spicy sauce was actually spicy. ?It wasn't "SoHo white-boy" kind of spicy, it actually had some impressive heat to it (and great flavor).
My last night in New York and what should I eat. Okay I'm trying to be dramatic, I'll just forget about the sandwich I ate for dinner. ?I had a few hours on my own walking around Times Square while the girls go watch a show. Should I go shopping, watch a comedy show, people watch or watch a street performance. Nah, I'm going to experience New York cuisine. Whether you are a local of New York or a tourist many people flock to The Big Apple for the food. When you talk about NY cuisine you think of pizzas, hot dogs bagels and delis. ?Its weird a forgotten mention of NY cuisine is Halai Carts. Look around they are everywhere on the streets of NY, ?Everyday I see at least one or two people visiting these carts. Now back to my lonely night walking the street of NY. I told myself my last meal in NY is going to be epic. I am going to find the highest rated place on my YELP app. I've been to NY couple times and I see these Halai Carts but never tried thinking I need to save myself for something better. But looking on my phone I see this place with over 2000 reviews. Curious and hungry, someplace I had to check out. I was couple NY blocks away but I was determined. Following my yelp app I realized, I am nearby 53rd and 6th. Great didn't look that crowded with only 3 people in line. ?Standing I begin to wonder is this the right place worth 2000 reviews. ?I needed to walk a little further and there it is. How do I know this is it. Just look for the line. Its 9:30 and there was a line of over 10 people filled with construction workers, men in suits and people like me...yes tourist. You can also tell this is the place because they have 4 guys working the cart. You have 3 choices Chicken, Lamb or combo for 6 bucks. ?I don't know how to describe it its meat, orange rice, white and red sauce. Mix it all together and you get magic. The 5 pound metal thing is a container of some pretty dam good food. The meat is soft and flavorful and the white sauce explodes with flavor. Ohh I didn't even mention the red sauce. Just one advice get a drink, it has quite a kick. Bottomline this is the best $6 I spent in New York.
A FOOD CART WITH OVER TWO THOUSAND REVIEWS AND 4.5 STARS. DO I NEED TO SAY ANYTHING? Yes, get an extra white sauce!!
This is the 1st place I eat whenever I land in NYC. I check into my hotel, drop off my luggage and I'm gone like the wind. "Yo taxi, take me to 53rd and 6th. I'm mad hungry." You know this place is good when a line of taxi drivers are there to get some late night eats with the rest of us. Yes, the line is long. Yes, the food IS that good. Yes, if Osama Bin Laden lived in NYC, he would be caught in THIS line. A man has got to eat right, right? The line moves really fast so don't worry about it; your drunk/stoned/clubbing/insomniac butt will soon be engulfing the Halal goodness. You can get the following: 1) Lamb with rice 2) Chicken with rice 3) Lamb & Chicken with rice It comes with a white sauce (I won't tell you what it is. Try to figure it out) and an incredibly delicious spicy red sauce. You'll be crying because it's so good & so HOT! They recently added BBQ sauce which I thought was strange. Is it to satisfy all the Mid-Western visitors staying in Times Square? Here's the best part - the plate only costs $6! Yes, that's $6 (CASH ONLY). I'm not sure if you can find a tastier meal in the city for that price. A taxi ride a few blocks will cost more. Another tip: go buy yourself a soda at the nearby drink cart on 6th. You'll need it to calm down the red sauce. Trust me. Halal - the other five letter word for Crack.
I had been waiting forever to try this place, and it just so happened I was with a group of friends in the area. From the review profile of this place, I expected this place to blow me out of the water, as most 1000+ yelp review places usually do. There are already a bunch of reviews, so I'll get to the point. Taste: 4/5 - the meat and rice itself are the same as my usual halal cart near school on 33rd and 1st, but the white sauce and hot sauce put it just a notch above the rest. Probably a whole day's worth of calories, but definitely worth an extra hour in the gym. Price: 5/5 - The portions are even bigger than the usual carts, for just a buck more ($5+1). Service: 2/5 - Obviously not talking about waiters here, but even for a cart they were very rude. Sumit, my friend who was ordering for us as a long-time customer of this place, was completely ignored when we asked sauce on the meal itself instead of on the side, or at least extra sauce (They've changed it so the sauce is no longer self-serve, and the hot sauce is apparently not as overwhelmingly spicy anymore). I'll be back, but only if I'm in the area.
Out of all the places I've eaten at NYC so far, I'd have to say that this is one of my TOP TOP TOP TOP favorites. I really do not feel like the chicken and rice is overrated at all. I've tried other halal carts, but NONE of them have the perfection of this cart: HUGE portions, perfectly cooked rice, and extremely tender chicken without the extra fat and tendon that many other carts throw in. Random tip: when I went with a bunch of my friends, for some reason they gave my boyfriend and me the white sauce on the side in separate containers (we didn't ask for it), which ended up being a really good thing cos that was a LOT more sauce than the usual that they squirt on. The rest of my friends just got the sauce squirted on by the halal guys, and they all ended up going back to ask for more white sauce, while my boyfriend and I had ours thoroughly drenched thanks to the sauce on the side.
Although I don't think it's the most amazing place in the world this place is definitely worth the trip especially if you are drunk, a tourist, or quite possibly both. Beware though, there are many impostors along the way. I got the the chicken and lamb combo, pretty good, and for seven bucks it goes a long way. The white sauce is great.
Hands down my favorite meal in New York. It has everything you want...meat, lettuce, pita, white sauce, super spicy sauce. If you mix everything together, you get this crazy concoction that makes your taste buds go CRAZY. I'm willing to wait in line at 2am for this stuff. I'm also willing to sit in freezing weather to eat it. Their spicy sauce is pretty spicy so be careful how much you put in it! Definitely come eat here if you're ever in NY.
Lamb and Rice FTW!! =D Just hold that volcanic hot sauce please!
There are a couple of different halal carts on 53rd and 6th, but make sure you go to the right one!! ?The famed 53rd and 6th Halal Cart is on the corner diagonal from the Hilton, with the yellow plastic bags. ? One time, I mistakenly went to one on a different corner, and was left with chicken that wasn't flavored as well, and not as finely chopped/minced/hacked at, and was sadly left a bit disappointed. ?I initially thought that I had over-hyped the chicken and rice plate in my head, but realized later it just wasn't as good because I went to the wrong cart. I always order the chicken and rice, and mix in a bunch of white sauce with the rice, chicken, and lettuce together. ?The red sauce is SUPER spicy, so I just dip the tip of my fork in for each bite. For 6 bucks, you really can't beat the chicken and rice. Love! ?I just wish it wasn't so far...I would be there every other day if it was further downtown.
I must be missing something. My friend told me this was the best chicken and rice cart that he had been to in NYC so I tried hard to like it but it just wasn't right. The line down the sidewalk shows this place is popular. Service: They let certain regulars cut to the front of the line. Not sure how they make that distinction. In order to save packing time, they made us go around the side of the cart to add our own sauce and place our own lid on the container. Food: It's chicken and rice served with pita bread. The pita bread is not all that great. The chicken and rice was good and flavorful but not something that I'm crazy about. Next time, I'll give it another try but just wasn't for me this trip.
One of the most memorable meals that I had in New York! It is sooo good that I went to New York the second time around just to try this again. So simple but amazing. I am going to invent a teleportation machine just so i can teleport these godsend across America to California because we do not have anything like this here. ? This is the first place that comes to my mind when recommending places to try in New York.
IF your NOT FROM THE AREA, THIS SHOULD BE ONE OF YOUR FIRST STOPS IN NYC. ? i remember when my friend asked a group of my friends and I, "WHO WANTS CHICKEN & RICE?" ?Everyone started shouting "HELL YEAH i want CHICKEN & RICE!" ? But what is this Chicken and Rice, you say? ?It's no ordinary chicken and rice, but THE CHICKEN & RICE on 53rd & 6th. ? My first time to eat chicken and rice, i seemed a bit intimidated by this huge platter of shredded chicken, served on top of saffron yellow rice, with lettuce all around it. ?Then, my friends told me that I got to put the white sauce, or what the locals here call "CRACK SAUCE" ?I added little, realizing it had a very similar texture to ranch. ?i'm not a fan of ranch, but when i tried it...YOU CAN'T STOP ADDING EVEN MORE! ? THIS IS A LANDMARK! ?No other place in the world could be a substitute for this Halal cart. ?It's about $6 dollars, so very cheap. ?And plus how much of it you're getting, can't even complain. ?Make sure to show up when it opens, cause this place gets crowded fast!
I stayed at the hotel across the street while in town for business. ?It was too easy to cross the street and eat the tasty chicken and lamb... I was in NYC four days and I ate here three times. ?Lines are long during meal times, but the waits aren't horrible.
Omg this stuff is the ish.... ?The crappy part is that I live on the opposite coast, which means I will be having withdrawals from cravings... Boo... I want some right nowwwwwwww....
DOG FOOD! Whats the hype? Seriously...this place really wasn't anything special nor good. Yelp Fails.
Wtheck is this place. I come to visit NYC, and everyone asks me if I tried the "Chicken and Rice" yet. Am I going to go to get this "Chicken and Rice". What is this chicken and rice?! Is is chicken soup and rice..because that is what I was imagining in my head. My friend brought us to this empty neighborhood at around 9/10 pm at night. Sketchy...I thought I could trust her. I start smelling this wonderful, appetizing smell. She takes us to this long line, and we wait for this magical chicken and rice. Everyone around us looks so happy. It's this food cart that mass produces chicken, lamb, and rice. They have this system that keeps the line moving. We order, ask for extra white sauce, and immediately find a seat so we can devour the food right away. Yes, yes, yes..it was great. ?Very great. Even had leftovers the next morning, and it was so good. Kinda wish I could get some now...for 6 bucks!
Don't be fooled by all the Halal imitator carts in NYC, this place is the real deal. ?There will always be a line, but it is so worth it. ?For six bucks you'll be filled with goodness and your pants will be bursting at the seams. ?I stuck with the chicken and rice, but my gf loves the lamb (even though she doesn't usually like lamb). ?Make sure you smother your meat with the white sauce, for me that's what really made this one of the best things that I ate on my east coast trip!
What more can you ask for on a cold winter's day than a nice dish of chicken and lamb/chicken combo. ?A mere $6 will more than fill you up, I only ate half of my order and I was way hungry too. There was plenty of meat over the rice and perfect amount of sauce! I love it and will definitely return!
Wow! Best $6 meal ever!!! ?I don't think I've ever had to wait in line for this, but then again maybe I've just gone at odd hours?? ?I heard there are 2 carts on opposite sides of the street, so perhaps I lucked out with the cart with no line. You have got to try it! the lamb rice plate was oh so yummy! ?Add the white sauce and the red sauce (be careful! It's really hot stuff!) and you're set. ?It's a pretty large portion too, so you can totally split the plate with someone.
Awesome recommendation from Cheryl Y.! We the the chicken and beef over rice and it hit the spot! ?Just make sure you go to the right cart.
OK I was in NY for work and I ate here 6 times in 4 business days. ?Ruled. ?Mostly breakfast and early dinner before dealing with suits. ?Highly recommended.
My mouth is watering just thinking about these guys. This is the first time I've had lamb and liked it. My 2 friends and I were starving. ?We shared a combo platter and a falafel wrap and we didn't finish. ? The hot sauce is a kicker so I'd suggest you add it in modest amounts. LOVED the combo platter. The Falafel wrap was good but I could say that there are falafels that are just as good at other places. Great bang for its buck and delicious! BTW: 4:30ishpm on a Saturday and no line whatsoever!
Unfortunately I was TOO drunk to remember if I got beef, chicken or lamb. Another place my friend recommended. Everytime we went to eat I'd always say, "when are we going to get halal?" My NY friends were definitely getting annoyed. Went after the club up the one with a shorter line. My NY friends were just telling me how the 2 carts are the same but the stupid tourists always go to the one with the line cause they don't know. "the bags are the same!" that's what they say... All I remember was my friend telling me that the hot sauce and garlic sauce was all I needed. I vaguely remember him telling me how spicy it was, but I didn't remember cause I had one too many vodka on the rocks. I drenched 1/8 of my plate in the got sauce. Later my mouth was on fire. I don't know what level of scoville it is but it's def spicier than King Taco salsa roja. Less flavor but more spicy! Like I said, wish I could remember the actual taste. I just remember enjoying it at 4am!
This is the crack of street meat! ?I am never disappointed and always full.
Very good and very affordable. I smothered my combo rice platter in white sauce with hot sauce on the side and devoured it. ?I was more than full. ?Looking forward to a return visit.
This is SERIOUSLY, the best halal cart EVAR. My beloved exgirlfriend and shoulda-been-future-wife came here aaaaall the time, EVERY NIGHT, and i have come here everytime im in ny, dude, IT DOES NOT MATTER, this place is straight TITS dude, i will come here no matter what time no matter what spot im at, I ALWAYS end up at 53rd and 6th for this halal truck. GO HERE NOW. ?From Jader and Erin (my heart) come here NNNAAAOOO.
You really don't know what you're missing until you've tried the chicken over rice plate here. It IS that good. There is a line but it's worth the wait...especially after a night of drinking.... ;) And don't forget the white sauce!
Very yummy and satisfying at night. Really worth the price as well! Line moves super fast as the server guys work at high speeds. I got the chicken and it was delicious. I definitely understand why the place is so popular. Beware of the red hot sauce - it is STRONG. It's good, but strong. My friends were hacking and choking to death because they underestimated it. White sauce is amazing!! Use the sauces!
$$ 6 for a plate of yummy chicken/lamb combo with a portion that can feed 2 people, sign me up! red sauce is extremely hot, beware & white sauce is delicious long for the long line after the 7:30ish I waited for 15 minutes at 7:45 with 15 - 20 people ahead of me, just a heads up
Lamb and chicken over rice with yogurt sauce = the BEST $6 I ever spent in NYC!! ?Everyone who comes to nyc must try this place. ?Its seriously FOODGASM in your mouth! ?Skip the hot sauce. ?I can't handle that much heat. ?Bf always goes for it tho. ?=) We came here twice. ?Once at around 7 pm and waited an hour.... for a food cart! ?Unbelievable! ?They weren't slow or anything. ?They were serving customers one right after the other. ?Once you get to the front, the whole transaction of taking your order, putting it in the tin plate, and paying happens in probably a minute... maybe a minute and half. ?There was just a large amount of people in line... I couldn't believe it. ? The second time we came here was around 1:30 AM after we came back from a Yankees game. ?There was still a line, but not as long. ?Around a 30 minute wait this time. ?I felt kinda sorry for the other halal carts who had maybe one or two customers....lol. It was definitely worth the wait. ?It was sooooo good. ?I'm drooling just thinking about it. ?I want more!! ?They need a halal cart like this in the bay area. ?if anyone knows of a place let me know.... I'll pay you!!! ?=)
I really do not have much to say. I mean it has a thousand+ reviews and the long line would just justify how good this food is. Honestly, I like the yogurt sauce more than the chicken and the rice. ...but this place is the S*$%!!!
Who knew chicken and rice could be so good? Even more than the chicken and rice itself, I love the white sauce and bread. Everything mixed in just goes together so...damn...perfectly. Gotta ask for extra bread and sauce next time.
Out of the hundreds of bars there are in NY... it is sometimes seems impossible to run in to everyone in the world that you know at one spot.... Needless to say, 53rd and 6th is where everyone inevitably ends up when the late night cravings creep up! It's funny because I always see everyone waiting at the original cart (the one with the ridiculously long line).....does everyone know that they have another cart right across the street? It always has a MUCH shorter line, and the exact same food! Be smart about your hunger attacks, people. Get the same food (from the same cart), across the street! Oh yea, and the food is excellent. Don't use too much of the hot sauce. You WILL want to die.
5. Get here after 7:30pm or it's not the right cart 4. Lamb Gyro 3. White sauce 2. Red sauce, thin line down the length and finally 1. Flavorgasm!
This place totally makes me wish that we had (better? any?) street food in Boston. This is a late night spot for us, but with no line, great food, and inexpensive prices, you can't beat it. Then you add in the white sauce and the AH-MAY-ZING fire sauce, holycrap, YUM. That is all. Go eat some of this, you'll be happy!
I like chicken and rice so much that I have a 53rd and 6th tattoo if you don't like this food cart, you're an idiot the white sauce and hot sauce are the only reason I might suspect there being a god
This is something to go FAR out of your way to experience. I recommend doing it at 2am after several hours of drinking IPAs at the Pony Bar nearby. Lamb gyro - awegawd, awegawd! And.... I'm done.
This is the best gyro in town... Says me! Seriously though, I can't go to New York City without stopping here at least once. I get a Lamb Gyro every time with lots of the hot sauce. The first time I was brought to this cart I saw the line and was over it. The wait was about 30 minutes but so worth it in the end.
Simply can't go wrong here. ?Food is good esp late night.
The food is solid for late night cart, don't get me wrong, but it is identical to multiple other Halal carts in the area. If there isn't a line, step right up... But if there is a line go down the block
This place is amazing. Fast and cheap and gets you pretty full. The thing that I can compare this cart to is carne asada fries on the west coast. It has the best smell from a block away! Always get the combo plate. I will always get this place when I'm in NYC. LOVE THIS PLACE
Chicken on Rice. ?That is all you need to know. ?You can find Halal Carts everywhere in Manhattan. ?I came here after a night of drinking. There were twenty people in line but it was moving quickly. I've never seen any other cart manned by three people. ?I liked how the sauces were on the side of the cart for any patron to grab and use at will. The lamb tasted like over-salted gyro meat. Stick with the chicken on rice, you can't go wrong. The portion is amazing. ?Hot off the gril, it's the perfect quick bite or post-drinking meal. However, for only four dollars you can get better quality Chicken 'n Rice at the Halal Cart on the corner of 14th & 3rd. Plus over there they include a drink!
Yes.. This is THE ONE & ONLY Halal Cart to go to Yes... Across the street is the same guys/co. and you DO NOT have to sit on that ridiculous line The white sauce is key and nobody (that I know of) can figure out the ingredients The Hot/Red sauce is REALLY, REALLY, REALLY HOT... No seriously you'll start tearing, hallucinating and maybe visualize the devil --SIDE STORY-- On one occasion, I saw a cute girl grab the hot sauce bottle as I was pouring some white sauce on my platter... Immediately I warned her about how HOT it is, and she just gave me this drunk nasty grin as I was trying to kick game to her. So what she does is completely ignore my friendly gesture and squirts 2 complete rings around the platter! for her sake I wanted to jump across and slap the bottle out of her hand... But instead I said "That was a mistake, you just ruined your plate." So she ignored me again and left... But as she was walking away I kept an eye on her.. AND WHAT HAPPENED?! She took her first bite and it was like a phantom punch to the face ***POW*** threw her plastic fork down and started coughing uncontrollably (Punk) If you like hot sauce just put in a dab... its enough -TRUST- Tip don't come here sober.... its so much better inebriated
It was OK. I don't like waiting in lines for just-ok food though. I was told that I didn't dump enough of the "white sauce" on it, and that I wasn't drunk enough... will be sure to do both of these things the next time. Yeah, there will probably be a next time given how little these big plates of foods cost.
Halal Guys serves some of the best late night, non-mobile, street-meat in the city. ?Order the lamb platter and add white sauce, but go easy on the red stuff--it's hotter-than-habanero-hot. ?The haters who think it's overrated need to remember that the experience adds flavor.
I really do not see what is so SPECIAL about this Halal Cart. I've had better. The portion size is amazing for two people to share. The white sauce, taste like the same sauce I've tried at other carts. Overall, the food was just OK.
If you ever want the best Late night eats, this is the place to go. ?The Lamb and rice is worth any wait you have to do.. ?don't buy just one plate, you'll want to get at least 2... ?that first one goes fast... ?This place is easily one of the best eats in NYC (BY FAR!!!) Would I got back? ?I want to go right now. ? Restrooms? ?Come on?!?! ?seriously? ?it's a food cart... ? NOTE: ?be ready for a long long line... ?this is the only place that I know has a longer line then Shake Shack.
BIG PORTION OF FOOD + 6 DOLLARS = I think I'm in LOVE! Lamb with rice is delicious! ?The food came out warm and steaming and smelled amazing! ?Be careful, the spicy sauce is very spicy! ?No lie, if I lived in NY, I would come here everyday! ?My friend and I even considered packing the food in Tupperware so that we can bring it back to CA with us. ?OMG I think I'm having Halal Cart withdrawals now.
DAMNNNNN you do NOT have to be drunk after a night out around town to be eating this because this is absolutely mouthwatering completely sober! Orange colored rice with shredded chicken and lettuce and pita bread mmmm. ?It was quite a wait (maybe about 15 minutes) and totally worth waiting in the freezing cold because I was satisfied! I shared it amongst two people and still had leftovers. ?We had it with ranch, bbq sauce, and the fire hot chili (be careful, this stuff is really hot, I kid you not and I love spicy food) so TRY TRY TRYYYY this cart vendor out! It's worth your six bucks fa SHO.
After passing on this cart my very first time in NYC, I have been dying to check it out once I learned what I missed out on. ?I got my chance last month, and I SPECIFICALLY made sure this halal cart was on the to-do list, even though I wasn't staying at the hotel across the street like last time. It took me 15 minutes of walking from my Times Square hotel to make it, but after finally getting a taste of halal goodness, I can say it was definitely worth the walk. ?The lamb is off the hook! ?It was so flavorful and juicy. ?The plate was very filling, but I wish they gave more pieces of pita bread. ?If I could, I would completely drench my plate with that amazing white sauce. ?I wish they gave more than 2 containers of it! Everyone on here said be sparing with that red sauce. ?After tasting it, I would have to agree. ?The red sauce may not initially burn, but it adds up quickly the more you have it. ?I only used 1/8 of the container, and my mouth was on fire by the end of the meal. ?Another reason I wished they gave more white sauce. Unsure whether I picked the right cart, I also checked out the cart across the street, which looked to be the same. ?However, it, operated slightly different from the one directly across from the hotel. ?This clone (?) has a self-serve bottle of white and red sauce. ?While I was pleased with that option, I found their meat to not be as good, almost ground beef-like. ?These carts are probably the same, but they didn't taste the same. Either way, I'm wishing there was something this good back in CA, because I can use another fix.
This really lives up to all the BUZZ! ?It tastes good whether you're drunk or sober. ?Take heed of the "CAUTION: HOT" sign. ?My friend and I made the mistake of thinking this caution are for regular American, not for elite spicy food lovers like ourselves. ?We were litterally crying as we're eating this thing. ?But that's what's sooo good about it. ?Be careful not to wipe your eyes or facing the direction of the wind! ?And it's super cheap for a whole plate! ?We ordered extras to go and it still tastes good the next day. ?MUST have when you're in NYC.
Something I truly look forward to when in the city. A fresh Gyro and Falafel with white sauce and red sauce(hot). The Gyro is sliced in a rectangle and chunked on the griddle with onions and a warm pita. Same with falafel, I like mine with bell bepper. So good! This is something I crave hard cause AZ has nothing close!
I live in Chicago and I dream of this place constantly. I never thought it could live up to the hype. The only downfall is that it's in New York and not in Chicago.
Let me start by saying I'm not a street meat kind of person. I'll eat practically anything, but food from a vendor inches from the cement jungle seems a little grotesque to me. "When and how do they wash their hands? How do I know some rat just didn't crawl by," these are questions that plague my mind whenever I pass a street food vendor...But don't get in the way of me and my Halal dudes on 53rd and 6th, because their food is AMAZING. Yet another establishment that Rusty has introduced me to, these carts are great! The rice is soft, the chicken and lamb are tossed together over a bed of shredded lettuce, which cools the whole plate down. Toss in a few cuts of pita and you've got the best, most filling and affordable plate of food in NYC, fo real. At $6 a plate, you can't beat this! It's worth the line! And don't forget about the sauces! I go for the white and the BBQ, while Rusty usually slathers on all three, skirting a ring of the hot sauce around the circumference of his plate...That hot sauce is definitely way too hot for me though. Be careful not to screw up the BBQ and the hot sauce when you're getting your condiments, because such a mistake could definitely ruin an otherwise delicious eating moment. IT IS WORTH THE LINE!
53rd and 6th, Platters, Chicken and Rice...there are so many iterations of this place's name, but no matter; EVERYONE around here knows exactly what you are referring to. Although I grew up in North Jersey, I had never even heard about this (in)famous cart until my freshman year of college at a certain nearby university that (foolishly) turned down its invitation to join the Ivy League. Anyway, one of my friends talked up this place so much that, during NJ Transit's annual (or is it biannnual?) Free Transit Week, a bunch of us hopped on a train into the city JUST for some chicken and rice. Now, even though this was some random weeknight in October, there was a massive line when we got there at about 11 pm, and I was thinking to myself, "WTF?!" I was pretty skeptical about how good the food would be, especially since I'm kinda leery about getting food from street carts. After waiting on line for about 45 minutes, we finally placed our orders. As we walked back to Penn Station with our bounty, I told the friend who had been hyping this place up that the food had better be damn good to be worth the train ride and the wait. Of course, as we began chowing down on our food as we waited for the train to arrive, I discovered that he was right: the chicken, lamb, and rice was pretty damn good. And with that, I was indoctrinated to the joys and delights of the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. Okay, I'll admit it; the food isn't mind-blowingly delicious. Yeah, I said it. If you come expecting this to be some sort of religious experience or revelatory moment, then you may be let down. But for $6, you get a warm, fresh, and generously portioned container of oh-so-delectable goodness. Spread some tangy white sauce on top, (carefully) add some hot sauce, and you're good to go. It tastes so great going down that you don't really care about the fact that it usually doesn't look so pretty coming out (and if you OD'd on the hot sauce, you are REALLY in for a fun time the next morning). So whether you are hammered, have the late-night munchies, or just craving some delicious street meat, come here for some good cheap eats. Note: there are multiple carts scattered around the area run by the same owners. Just look for the yellow shirts and bags inscribed with the words "We Are Different." The lines at the other carts are much shorter than the one at 53rd and 6th, so you can skip the wait and still enjoy the same food.
this cart dishes up street food that far surpasses that served in most restaurants. $6 = flavourful morsels of lamb over fluffy rice & lettuce + toasted pita + crack sauce that make enduring the long line + eating on a nyc sidewalk in the middle of the night beyond worth it.
mmm...chicken. mmm...rice. mmm...chicken and rice! One of the best things I ate in NYC (along with shake shack, see my review) Despite eating at various, highly rated, highly trafficked restaurants, I find myself craving this all the time. ?Again, I don't know if my being tired and super hungry had any influence on my taste buds, but there's something about the chicken and rice plate that I can't forget... perhaps, that creamy, unassuming white sauce that pulls all the elements together along with that unique hot sauce that will make you feel alive! Once I landed in Cali, I was googling and looking for recipes that tried to replicate this dish to no avail. ?If anyone has a recipe, please let me know.
I had been hearing about this cart from so many people and I was soo excited to finally check it out myself. There's a few other Halal and Guys carts near by, but I wanted to make sure my first try at this place was from the original cart. So we waited for a mere 10 minutes. ?For 6 bucks you get a pretty big platter of food!!! We walked back to our friend's apartment and ate our dinner on the living room floor- felt like the good o'l college days. The food is full of flavor and just pure goodness. ?The white sauce is amazing and the hot sauce is spicy! Be careful with that stuff!! Loved the food, unfortunately my stomach wasn't big enough for it all (fail!!!), but I'm soooo glad that I finally checked this place out. It'll be one of those must go to places when I'm back in the Big Apple!
Hope i"m writing my review on the right place, so many of these halal cart guys everywhere, as much as there are pigeons on the street. But if this is the right place I was at, then this place is $$$! Get the gyro plate and you're set. Comes with yellow rice, loads of gyro meat, some veggies and their famous white cream sauce. And their spicy sauce is so good, but really hot, gotta stop eating after a couple bites to cool down the tongue. This thing is a bit greasy but the experience is well worth the grease intake. Another must stop spot when coming to the big apple.
I don't exactly know the number of Chicken and Rice stands there are in New York but one thing I know is that this is the worst. It is over priced and the rice is terrible. The chicken is tasteless and makes me wonder what the hype is all about. Sober or drunk this food was like eating cardboard paper for me (if I have done it before). Ever since that one time on NYE I've never gone back there and I think if you're really a fan of Chicken and Rice you should try out other stands. My favorite is the one on 23rd between lexi and park. Now that's amazing!
OMG!!!!!!!!!!! Are you for real? This place is so OVERRATED. If you think this place has the best chicken and rice then you probably: A. Too drunk, you stand in line for such a long time that when you finally hold the chicken and rice plate in your hand, you are more excited than a chimpanzee holding a banana. B. Thinking that long line = good food. NO, so OVERRATED C. Have never tried any other Halal carts in NYC or tried other Halal carts and they failed your expectations. D. You have taste buds of a sea lion which means something has seriously gone wrong with your taste buds. The reason I'm giving this place 3 stars because I used to go here a lot and of course I took everyone who was from out of town here too. The chicken and rice here is just BAD, it's so so DRY. The only way to overcome the dryness of the chicken is to put in a lot of white sauce. The lamb and rice is much better than the chicken and rice. I still go here for the lamb and rice just because I know for sure that this place is always opened at 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning. Ok, now you may ask: if this place is so bad, where is the place that has good/better/best chicken and rice? My friends and I have tried many Halal carts and we all agreed that the one place that has better/best chicken and rice is located in UNION SQUARE - 14th Street. This Halal cart is right next to Forever21, DSW, Strawberry, opposite with Bank of America. The chicken and rice costs $5, and they give you so much chicken, juicy, moist, big pieces of chicken. Chicken gyro is super delicious too. So there you go, please do yourself a big favor and go to that Halal cart to check out the better/best chicken and rice. The only problem is that this place might not be opened late at night. We often go to this place during the day. Last time we came here at 11pm but I'm nor really sure about after that.
Many many reviews already here, hard to write something new to say. ?But compared to other Halal carts I've tried in NYC, this is truly the best. ?A few tips to sum things up: 1. It's the one on the SouthWest corner, right by the Hilton, where the beheaded fountain is. 2. Yes, the white sauce is delicious. 3. The hot sauce, is definitely not for the weak sauce. ?It's really really hot. 4. $6 for either chicken and rice, gyro and rice, or combination (my fav) 5. The line goes by really fast. Don't be discouraged.
There are specific conditions that must be met before you visit and eat at this cart. 1. Must be under the influence (most important) 2. It's some time between 12 am and 4 am (not as important as long as criteria one is met) 3. The food must be doused in white sauce. Optional: add a dab of their hot sauce to give it an extra kick. Why you ask? Let me be honest, the food is mediocre halal food at best and it's simply dry without the white sauce. Think Lindsay Lohan. Dry and boring without, but ecstatic and fun with it (so, I hear). 4 stars because it simply is one of the best things you can dine on when you're GONE and feeling starved like Marvin. As an added bonus, it's cheap as f**k.
can't get a better deal for food this good!! gotta have the sauces! i personally liked the lamb platter more than the chicken.
If you're not starving, make a stop at Halal and wait in the line to get a Gyro wrap. While people say their cart is nothing special, I beg to differ. The white sauce is phenomenal, the pita is always soft and warm and the meat is fresh and hot. The other carts don't move as much food so I think this attributes to the freshness factor at Halal. Halal Gyros are better than the ones they make in Greece.
Anytime I'm in NYC, whoever I'm with INSISTS that we go to the halal cart. Don't get me wrong, it's (chicken/lamb and rice platter - $6) good stuff. I know the red sauce is deadly and stay away from it - the white sauce suits me just fine. (Giggity?) It's just not something I want to eat every day. (My bf is fine with this and will usually order 4 platters, knowing full well I can only stand to eat one platter before getting sick of it.) The line late at night can be really long but the food is being prepared and sold so quickly that I've never stood there for more than, oh, 30 minutes. It tends to fly by when you're surrounded by drunks and tourists anyway. Halal carts abound in NYC but this the only one for me.
lives up to the hype
There's a reason this place has close to 2,000 reviews, all of which are stellar. There's a reason why this is such a charming place to eat from and review because it's simply called "53rd and 6th Halal Cart." There's a reason why the line is a mile long at lunch time but no one seems deterred. And it's all because this is some of the best street food you're ever going to have. Before eating here I wasn't a big fan of lamb. I was almost 90% sure I wasn't going to have lamb as part of my halal cart dish. It was mostly a psychological thing for the past few years, actually--I could never help but imagine a little lamb and its mother being shuffled away to the slaughter house. (And apparently I only draw the line at lamb as opposed to beef and chicken which I have no problem consuming). But my brother and I ordered the combination chicken and lamb, thinking he would eat the lamb, and I, the chicken. Everything was set, we got our white yogurt sauce piled on and off we went to find a place to sit. Opened the five pound container and voila the scent immediately intoxicates you. It's indescribable and when you're hungry it's even more alluring. I tried the chicken first, obviously. Great, delicious, so great with the yogurt sauce and a little bit of lettuce. Mmmhmm. But that was just the beginning. I was growing more and more curious about the lamb my brother was ooing and ahhing over and after the second offer, I took a forkful of yogurt-covered lamb. Let's just say...forgive me sheep, for I have sinned. Once committed to defending your lives by refusing to consume your little wooly behinds, your cuteness is no match for the magical elixir of the Halal Guys' addictive sauce. The lamb itself is extremely soft and tender and ten times more flavorful than the chicken, despite the fact that the chicken was also fabulous. I think I ate more of the lamb than of my own chicken. Oops, sorry bro! I was so smitten with this place that even though I was getting frequent cravings for halal carts during the rest of my time in NYC, I refused to buy from another cart. I knew that I would probably be let down and to wait for the real deal was completely worth it. Unfortunately I only went once. But surely it won't be the last. For the next time I find myself in the Big Apple I'm making a beeline for the Halal Guys and standing in line like a groupie for an hour for that taste of street food heaven. ? Yelp challenge: #13/365
Oy. ?The good ol' halal cart. ?Coming in from California, I never understood the hype around this. ?But it grew on me over time, and now I just have those deep cravings for it sometimes. ? I recently learned that all three carts near 53rd and 6th serve the same exact food and people think the other two carts are imposters. ? They're actually not. ?BUT....since the one on the SW corner always has the longest lines, my theory is that it tastes better bc they have to keep making the food fresh. ?The other carts are waiting around for customers and so the food is sitting there for a while and doesn't feel as fresh off the grill if you kno what I'm sayin. ?Anyway. I don't know what more to say except it's yummay and it hits the spot. ?7:30 pm til the crack of dawn.
This is an awesome place! Portions are fantastic, so make sure you go there hungry, if not starving! Lamb is delicious, and the offered white and red sauces are a great compliment. Beware of the red sauce; it's good but really spicy. Even the rice is pretty good! You can also sit right in front of the cart and observe New York while you eat. The only reason I gave it a 4 is I heard the servers fighting about something in Arabic, my native tongue, and it made me feel slightly uncomfortable. Surely that doesn't happen too often. Anyways, great place...
How much i love it!? I WANT SOME RIGHT FREAKEN NOW. that's all. Yea, you get this CRAZY morning shit the next day... but this halal food is the only reason, i'd do it again the next morning... Keeping it simple... Generous portions Good, well seasoned meat Good yellow rice (not too dry or soggy) Crispy iceberg lettuce Lip smacking good white sauce Lip swelling, runny nose, good ass hot sauce (NEVER GO OVERBOARD!!) why so good halal guys...why so good....
This place is great and probably the best "true" street cart food in the city. ?If there's a line, just go across the avenue to the other chicken and rice cart. ?It's owned by the same people and they wear the same shirts. ?However, one seems to be have been deemed the "original" which holds the long lines while the other one is much more reasonable of a wait. ? Hot sauce is awesome...but beware, it's QUITE POTENT so don't use it liberally.
Everyone who's been to NYC always told me to try chicken and rice. And I finally did. And it was TO DIE FOR. I LOVED IT. I would definitely live in the city to eat this since I know I will crave it a whole bunch. Their spicy sauce- makes it 10000000x better (I really like spicy food though). I will definitely come here every time I visit the city.
THE ONE & ONLY famous chicken & rice cart of NYC DRUNCHIES (drunken munchies) late after a TUESDAY night at the bars means? NO LINE FOR CHICKEN & RICE! i ordered the combo, comes w/ both lamb & chicken, rice, & pieces of pita ontop of THIS MASS OF FOOD, served in one of those personal pan pizza tins for $6!! UNLIKE OTHER CARTS, the meat at this cart is shredded instead of cubed! DO NOT MAKE THE MISTAKE OF POURING THE ENTIRE CONTAINER OF THE HOT (AS HELL) SAUCE OVER YOUR DISH!!.. i wasn't thinking & 1/4 of the meal later i was crying for some more white sauce to balance the heat!!! 3.5 stars overall!!! i think i prefer the chicken & rice cart outside trader joe's in union square.. BUT this one was still good!
Halal Guys offers a pretty good meal for $6 at 1 AM. Lamb, chicken, rice a little pita with garlic sauce and hot sauce on the side. ?Skip the chicken, go right for the lamb plate. ?Take it easy on the sauces - the garlic is fatty and the hot is inferno. Damn good, great deal, open late.
I actually didn't find out how famous this place was until I logged into Yelp and saw nearly 2,000 reviews. ?I thought I was eating at a random food cart a few blocks away from the office. ?It was drizzling so there were only two people in line, which I gather is pretty unusual. ?I got the lamb platter and everything was pretty good except the lamb could have been any meet - pork, beef, pigeon, cat. ?Maybe because it was ground up, but it didn't really resemble the usual lamb flavor I was used to. ?That being said, it was still good. ?The platter itself was perfectly arranged with just the right mix of rice, meat, salad and white sauce. ?The hot sauce is VERY hot so beware. ?I would definitely come back and try their chicken - mostly curious if it tastes like chicken or mystery meat.
Not bad, tried the lamb and chicken. ? Be sure to put the white goop on it. ?Quite an operation - lots of guys working there for you. ?There was a huge line at ~9 pm!
This place is not what it used to be few yrs ago! i was so dissapointed in my last visit to this cart.. the quality has dropped and it just doesn't taste the same anymore! ive tasted better gyro from other places in the same neighborhood! to me now its just a good place to "people watch" while i eat my gyro from some other cart!
After a rushed, partially eaten dinner before going to see Book of Mormon, we were ready for a more enjoyable meal after the show ended, but weren't expecting much in the way of quality. On the way to a bar we were stopped in our tracks by the aroma of seasoned lamb emanating from The Halal Guys cart. Despite the line of people 20 deep, I somehow knew it was not going to disappoint. I was more right than I ever knew. I was handed a gyro of epic proportions overflowing with shredded yet tender lamb. There was not a hint of gaminess, and it was deliciously seasoned and married to a searing hot sauce that was offset by the mysterious "white sauce." Belly-filling, mouth-watering late-night goodness. Oh I'll be back.
so let's start with this....if you didn't know the halal chicken and rice cart was good, you clearly have never been in the area on any evening or weekend. ?the line is sometimes half hour long....even in the winter! now, I used to frequent the cart much more often after barhopping on the weekends. ? It hasn't changed a bit over the years. ?I always get the lamb and rice, which are seasoned to perfection and flavorful and moist. ?Add the white sauce and just a drop of hot sauce, and your mouth will do flips. ?it's soooooo good. If you're a healthy eater, as I have become, this is a nice treat once in a while. ?however, your stomach might not feel so great the next day. despite that, it's totally worth it. INSIDER'S TIP- the cart guys have become so successful that they have opened an annex diagonally across the street. ?It's the same food, same owners, but NO line. ?It's funny because people still wait on that humongous line across the street. ? A lamb and rice plate will set you back $6. ?Enjoy!
after a long wait of 12 years, i finally made it to the halal cart ?(next to hilton) on this trip to NYC. we (my 2 friends and I) waited in a long line on a cold windy night (around 8pm). bought 2 meat shawarmas, 1 chicken shawarma and 1 meat biryani (with rice). costed us 22$. the food was ok, nothing compared to my earlier experience. in fact, i had to lie to my friends by saying that the food was great, ?cuz i made them wait and eat in the cold weather. the only saving grace was their hot sauce. maybe it was an off-day ... but i guess my craze for their food is over... next!
So I didn't go to the original one the first time i tried..and I just didn't understand why people were raving about this and craving it..until I tried this original one. OMG. What a BIG difference!! Those fakes are no competition!!! I came here on a .. wednesday at midnight and the line was maybe 7-8 people in front of me...so I got it pretty quick. I had to get beef and chicken or lamb and chicken because if I wanted just chicken it would be a little longer as the guy says so I settled for beef and chicken. They packed 2 white sauce and hot sauce for you and cover it and stick it in a bag with a fork and napkins. These guys know how to do business and quick! The chicken and rice...I've finally figured out why people come here to eat it!! It's amazing..amazing..amazing. Okay you get the point. I will definitely have to come back and get this but I'm scared of the line. $6 for amazing rice and chicken..mmm!!!! yeah people who raved about chicken and rice was right!!!
This halal cart is right outside my office and I eat here pretty regularly. ?The lines can get pretty long, but with street meat this delicious in Midtown you would expect them to. ?Get the hot sauce if you like things spicy, but be forewarned that it is super hot. ?I like to get a combination of the white and hot sauces served on top of the lamb and chicken over rice combo. ?It's cheap, tasty, and large enough to feed two people. ?Granted, sometimes after I eat I go straight into food coma, but such is life.
One of my best friends we call him Halal Cart Clarke, because he literally will consume anything involving street meat when we are out in the city partying. I didn't even realize that this Halal Cart was a big deal around the city, b/c i tend to be in midtown a lot for work and play so i always venture off when i'm feeling like i need a hot dog to this corner and bam it never fails to satisfy. The hot dogs are normally very good and i think he made some crazy steak and cheese once which was pretty dope and filled me up and then we met some crazy girls from Jersey which started flirting with us about street meat and how maybe they should incorporate are meat and hang with them. You get the picture the rest is a little R rated to discuss but nonetheless the Halal Cart brought two groups together for the better haha !
"Would you like some white sauce?" Would I? *drools One of many reasons why NYC is worth it to stay up late to at 4am and still have one of the best late night grub in town. ?Among the street lights. ?Alive. Awake. Show me what you got little momma, show me what you got purdy lady. ?Hands up and wave - Jay-Z
this is the best cart food i've had for lamb gyro. even though in the past few years, they're quality has somewhat declined and prices have gone up, the lamb gyro and white sauce is still the best out there. the competition cant stand a chance. the chicken i'm not a fan of. lamb rocks!
This is good for 6 bucks.
$6 for a whole dish full of Meat!! ?It took a while to find tho ? Last year I went, there was a long line but there were only a couple of people this time. I guess it's not as popular now. Regardless the food was bomb!
Where do I even begin????? This is my first time in New York and my boyfriend was raving about a halal cart he went to years ago. We were walking around Time Square trying to find this place and I was thinking that it was going to be alright. Boy was I wrong. This is probably some of the best food I've EVER eaten!!! We got the mixed chicken and lamb over rice with pita. Tips: The white sauce is amazing, get extras! And the hot sauce is...... the devils' sauce. It's good but I poured it all over my food thinking it would bring more flavor with a bit of spiciness, but don't be mistaken, this stuff is HOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!! test it out first, my face literally hurt from eating too much. It was only $6 and I swear I stuffed myself into a food coma and still had 3/4 of it left. It was like the Mary Poppin's Purse of food dishes, I could keep scooping mouthfuls and yet it wouldn't disappear! I uploaded a couple photos to help find the location. Just trust me and go go go go go!!!!!!
The halal cart is one of those things I have heard SO much about but being in LA I can't find anything like it. I pounced at the change to try it and it was my VERY first meal when I got to NY. The most popular thing from the cart is chicken over rice (or if chicken isn't your thing there's lamb). Turns out halal is not a food but rather dietary rules/restrictions. Thanks Google! The chicken is seasoned and cooked on a griddle and the rice is originally held in a white plastic bag like you would get at the market. Scary I know. It put into a big foil boil with some salad and a piece of pita bread and covered with white sauce. What's in the white sauce? Apparently its just mayo+vinegar and not some magic sauce invented by the gods. Even if you ask for a little bit of it..they will douse it. There is also hot sauce but if you love spicy..it should be NO problem. Portions are LARGE. Maybe its because I'm not a New York native..but I felt sick after. I didn't care though..the food was worth the pain. Since there are so many carts trying to capitalize on the popularity..it'll be hard to find which one is the correct cart. I simply looked for the line. There seems to ALWAYS be a line. If that fails..look for a Mamma Mia umbrella.
It's pretty good, and at something like $8 for a large plate and a drink, not a bad deal at all. ?But it's not life-changing, mind-blowing, or amazing, no matter how much white sauce you put on it.
Used to be really good apparently, but I thought it was ok. The service was horrible. Guy got mad because I asked for extra meat. It's so so.
Best Best Best Best drunk munchies everr :) I stayed across the street at the Sheraton, and it was so exciting to find out Chicken and Rice was only on the corner! We got it that night, and the morning after. Its delicious. and be sure to ask for extra crack sauce... well just extra white sauce. It makes me want to go back right now, we dont have anything this delish in philly. Chicken and lamb all the way :)
Seriously? ?These guys know what the halal they are doing with some lamb and chicken. ?Neither my husband nor I work in midtown, but we both will go out of our way in order to get an order from the guys at 6th and 53rd. ?To be brutally honest, we'll almost always order double and end up eating the leftovers the next day - just to relive some of the awesome experience. ?The hot sauce will LIGHT YOU UP!!
This damn cart is delicious and amazing. ?Been several times, drunk and sober, and my sober experience was probably the best because every time I've gone and been drunk I've thought to myself, "I wish I was sober so I could truly appreciate the magic of this halal." ? I go with the mixed every time, and I'm not even a lamb person. ?But trust, just go with the mixed, it's the best of everything. ?The rice is divine. ?I always have some leftover and eat it the morning after, it's even good cold! Like others have stated before: careful with the hot sauce! ?It's no joke. ?That stuff has made me cry before. ?Real tears people. ?Real tears. ?But even then, I was shoving halal down my throat as tears rolled down my face, it's that good. I know there used to be imposter carts but I went a few weekends ago and it seems like the cart across the street is the same people? Have they...expanded? I could have sworn I saw them wheeling foodstuffs back and forth between the two carts, anywho, the second cart had a much shorter line so maybe it's worth checking out.
I'd heard a TON about this vendor over the years and finally happened to be in the area right when my stomach started growling for lunch. The line, as always, went halfway down the block. 30 minutes later, as I wondered if this wait was really worth it, I had my $6 yellow bag full of food. I found a nice shady bench to sit on and opened my little aluminum container of WAY too much for one person to eat. I ordered the combo platter so that I could make sure to sample both the lamb and the chicken that is raved about by so many. With a ridiculous portion of yellow rice on top, a pita cut up into little wedges, and a small side salad of iceberg lettuce, green peppers and tomatoes, I wondered what all of this fuss was about. I started with little tastes of the 2 sauces I had asked for on the side: the classic white sauce and the hot sauce (by the way, ow). So, ok. Now I get it. I have NO idea why, but this food is really ridiculously good. The chicken is fresh, hot and lightly seasoned. I preferred it over the ground lamb, but that's just my personal preference- both were really excellent. The yellow rice is sticky-licious, flavorful and plentiful. The white sauce, as everyone says, is what makes the meal what it is. Creamy and cool, kind of like tzatziki sauce but without the cucumber. I actually have no idea what is in it, but it sure is tasty. I couldn't even come close to eating half of my meal, but found a homeless man who was very happy to accept my 2nd half. I'm not actually sure that I'll go back, because the too-full feeling I still had an hour later wasn't exactly the most pleasant feeling, but I am glad I finally tried it. Go with a friend and share one order. It's a wisely spent $3 each for a great lunch.
For 6 bucks its a pretty decent deal, and they give you a ton of food. However lets be entirely honest here.... the food isnt amazing by any stretch of the imagination. The white sauce is just mayonnaise with some stuff in it, and the BBQ sauce tastes like ketchup. Havent tried the hot sauce bc I was too scared after reading the reviews. Good drunk food I guess, but if I want good tasting food I'd go elsewhere.
They actually are like a 10/5 stars! NO WORDS TO DESCRIBE!!! Let's just say that I used to be a vegetarian and was converted into a chicken&rice fiend!!! The yummiest, most amazing Chicken & Rice cart!!! The only one I eat from!!! So good that I can eat it breakfast, lunch & dinner (I actually have...lol)!!!! ?Best spot after a night of partying too! So sad I'm moving to the west coast....Seriously gonna Miss this Chicken & Rice cart. TO SUM-UP: AMAZING!!!! worth the long line, worth the money, worth a trip to midtown All this talk about chicken and rice is making me hungry....Going to go grab some now....BYE!
So.... We went here late at night, DRUNK. It was AMAZING!! We we're visiting from out of town and apparently this is the Go to spot in NYC for the munchies after a night of drinking :) We we're very satisfied! We ordered the lamb and chicken combo over rice, came with pita bread and a delicious creamy white sauce and hot sauce! Let me repeat that, AWESOME CREAMY WHITE SAUCE!! Ask for extra... and take it easy with the hot sauce... that stuff is spicy. Portion - We ordered one for every 2 people! It was enough food. Be prepared to wait in line!! The line goes quickly though and the food is well worth the wait :) By the way... our friend had ordered us the chicken and lamb combo... I HATE LAMB, HATE IT HATE IT HATE IT... but for some reason, their's was sooo good and I loved it... it'll probably be the only place I'll ever eat lamb!
Super fast, super good, and super inexpensive! No receipt, no problem. Can you really write off a halal cart meal? Perhaps if you get it catered but had the lamb over rice. Finished it off quick and it was delicious!
By far, my best meal while in New York. It definitley lived up to the hype! I rarely eat at food carts, especially meat, but this was a place I HAD to eat at. We waited in line for about 45 minutes in the early evening on Saturday. There were other carts as we inched along (cupcakes, drinks, etc), and my friend and I ordered a chicken over rice plate, with white sauce and easy on the hot sauce (heard it was HOT!). They seemed exasperated with us because they were getting confused that 2 of us were sharing a plate (heard it was huge! and it is!), and I am tempted to dock a star for that, but imagining all the people they deal with, and still drooling over the food as I'm writing about it, I cant but give them 5 stars. So my friend doesnt like lamb, and since I always hear about CHICKEN and rice, we went for that plate. It seemed to get confusing after the guys put on the sauce, and they insisted our plate was at the end of the line. They gave us one fork, so I had to go back and grab one. I spied cups of hot sauce, and was tempted to take one, but figured what they put on was enough. Walked across the street to sit, ironically, infront of "Halal Guys", another halal cart, and dove in. I mean literally, I was hungry, and it was oh so heavenly good. But, just as my friend had thought, they gave us the wrong one. It was the combination, which was a blessing in disguise because I totally enjoyed the lamb over the chicken. Some of the chicken was slightly dry. The rice, with the white sauce (reminds me of ranch) go so well together with the meat. Not enough white sauce in my book, or maybe my friend ended up taking that side. The hot sauce was hot, but there wasnt enough. Darn, should've gotten the cups of extra sauce. The pita bread and salad on the side was good too. The salad is a nice side touch to eat from all the carbs and heaviness of meat and sauce. The two of probably finished half a plate, but I wish I could've eaten more to to compensate for the fact that I'll not be able to indulge in this for another couple years.
When I am in the need for fast, cheap food, the chicken shawarma/donair/ gyro is my go-to option, so it is only natural that when in NYC I would seek out the best that this city has to offer. The chicken platter from the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart did not disappoint. The $6 chicken platter gives you a very generous portion, even for the heartiest appetites. They have bottles of the white sauce and the hot sauce that you can apply yourself located on the side of the cart, but since it is winter and not too much fun to eat outside at 10pm in the middle of December, they will load you up with little to-go containers as well. So here is when I knew it was spiced just right. We are staying at a rather upscale hotel and we brought the platters back to our room to eat. After eating as much as we could, we embarrassingly realized that our room smelled like a souk in Istanbul. My husband went to ?pitch the leftover food into the trash outside of the hotel and when he returned he informed me that you could still smell the chicken down the hallway a couple of doors down from us. Awesome!
Amazing. Deservedly famous. Be aware, though, that when there is a line, you need to be ready to order and ready to pay. Do not arrive at the front of the line unprepared, or the employees will yell at you. A couple of teenagers in front of me wouldn't disengage themselves from their cell phones long enough to make an order and pay, and they got to face the wrath of the Halal Guys. But the food is incredible. So, so good. You will crave it a lot.
Now don't get me wrong but I do agree with most of you that the chicken and rice plate from these guys is pretty darned good when it's 4am, you're drunk, hungry and there's nowhere else to eat in Manhattan. Having said that, have you ever eaten here sober? ?Thought so. ?The food is somewhat bland without the pint or so of white sauce that people rave about. ? Not knocking these guys at all. ?They do provide a much needed service for the nocturnal crowd. ?Just not worth any more than 3 stars in my humble opinion.
i like the combo. ?extra cream. ?and i use the hot sauce to polka dot my plate. ?wash it down with some good ol' diet coke. ?don't be discouraged by the line. ?it's all worth it. ?you'll see, the patience pays off.
Dear Halal Guys, I am that guy who came here every week in the winter at 3 AM in the morning after a night of poker. I have dubbed my weekly journeys as "The Chicken and Rice Experience." You don't recognize me but I recognize you, you bearded man with yellow shirt. I would like to thank you for giving me the extra white sauces, codename "crack sauce" (I will find out the recipe one day!). The chicken you have is more tender and moist than any other cart I've eaten from. I am not a fan of the lamb because it is too tiny (please chop them into bigger pieces). I still remember the first time I went to you guys, I drenched my rice in hot sauce even after you and my friend warned me it was hot. My reply was, "I can take it, I've been training with Thai food." Five minutes later---I was crying uncontrollably. My bests, Antley Things Yelpers should know before embarking on "The Chicken and Rice Experience." -The chicken is tender and moist ALL the time. Not hard and crusty like other stands. -The southwest corner location (on 53rd and 6th, across the street Hilton opens at 7ish) Don't be fooled by the stand there before 7, it's a fake and it's crusty. -The southeast corner location (across the street from the bank) is opened during the day (before 7pm). The line is much shorter here. -There's a new location close to 52nd and 6th now. -Never drench the rice in hot sauce or it will bake my stomach. -You are bound to meet new people when you are on the line (Usually plastered).
Got the lamb sandwich--quite delicious with yummy white sauce and just a tad bit of hot sauce. Be careful with the hot sauce, as just a little bit goes the long way. The meal is messy--no question about that, but it's oh so good! Plus, it doesn't hurt that it's only $4! Stay on the line, no matter how long it is--you'll love it.
I don't think this halal cart needs another review after 1600+ positive reviews, so I'll keep it short and simple. It's a MUST HAVE while in NYC. ?Open during the late night hours (perfect for stuffing your face after a late night of drinking), it's inexpensive, filling, fresh, delicious. ?I got the combo plate which came with lamb, chicken, rice and pita. ?Douse your food in white sauce, sprinkle on some hot sauce (it's legitimately spicy!), dig in and let your mouth and stomach rejoice in epicurean ecstasy.
Long line and big portions of GREAT food for cheap sums this place up pretty nicely. I'll go ahead and agree with the rest of the people who say you should go for the cart with the long line, they always give you much more food. The food itself is pretty great. I always get lamb and rice which comes with two pieces of pita bread and some shredded lettuce. The pita bread is steamed over the cooking piles of chicken/lamb, so it soaks up a bit of the juice and flavor as it steams and warms up. I got the lamb while Molly went for the chicken. We tried each others and agreed we liked our own selections better. The lamb has a much more intense and meatier flavor, which I am in love with, while the chicken's is much more subtle and elegant in comparison. Either way, both dishes taste GREAT with the white sauce. I highly recommend getting a 3rd container of white sauce, along with the other two they give you. Man, this stuff is so good I'm going back again this weekend just for the stuff. - C & M
My friend excitedly says to me, "DO YOU WANT CHICKEN AND RICE?" ?Only naturally was I confused, and asked, "What's that?" I'm glad I asked because I was pleasantly surprised with how it tasted. ?If some of you don't know what this place is, it's a blend of Mexican + Mediterranean + Persian all combined into one. ?I got the Combination place in which it has the pork and chicken. ?It's basically a dish filled with rice, meat, lettuce, and other ingredients. ?There are different sauces on the side of the cart that you have to put on! (at least I suggest so anyway). ?There's a white sauce that's relatively close to a ranch, but more of the Mediterranean sauce you would eat with Gyros. ?Other sauces are BBQ and hot sauce. Btw, feel free to share with a friend or two because this thing is loaded with CALORIES!!! ?The line was pretty long, but it seemed to move relatively quickly, and I got my food and started eating away. ?It's pretty good for food off a cart, and they seem to very efficient as well. *NOTE: Make sure you go to the right one. ?You can do this by looking for the cart with the longest line. ?There are other ones probably within a quarter-mile radius with no lines, and seem relatively shady.
we came here on a sunday at 2 am and there was no line! ?we got the combo plate to share which worked out perfectly since i don't like lamb and my bf didn't love the chicken. ?the white sauce and spicy sauce is amazing but be careful not to pour too much on even though you think you may be macho. ?this hot sauce has a lingering effect that burns your stomach. i've had friends who poured a lot on thinking it was bbq sauce and all they could say was "too spicy too spicy too spicy!" ?definitely worth the $6!
Back in NYC and this time I wanted to try everything New York has to offer including halal carts. Ugh, I've tasted better. What a disappointment! We ordered chicken w/ rice and everything was bland and no flavor. My dad got the lamb w/ rice. I think he's the only one that thought it was great. Personally, the halal cart at UCD tasted 10x better. My appetite disappeared when I saw the way their had their food just hanging out in the open. ?It was raining that day too. Nothing like what I thought it would be. I gave it a chance and too bad it did not live up to my expectations. In fact, the experience was so bad that everytime we passed another halal cart, the smell just made me have an upset stomach. This is coming from a person who eats halal food/chicken over rice once every two weeks in Davis.
Best Halal food in the City. I have been eating at Halal carts all around NY and I'd have to say this cart is the best out of all of them. White sauce is a must! If you want to try the hot sauce, make sure you don't drench your plate with it. Thinking I can handle the heat I drenched my plate with hot sauce and had to learn the hard way. It was still delicious though. Self serve with the sauces and for a low price of 6 dollars for the meal. It can't get any better than that.
I LOVEEEEEE my chicken and rice! When I first moved to New York I heard about this place and I HAD to try it! Little did I know I would FALL IN LOVE with halal food. I used to seriously come here a lot my first 2 years of college but not so anymore. I think I started to realize how dirty and fake it probably is.. but WHO CARES when it's THISSS good! =P I usually get the chicken and lamb (highly recommend!) and I put bbq and white sauce on top of it! BTW I have noooo idea what that white sauce is but it's hella goood! Although it gets neukki after awhile... On friday nights the line is super SUPEr long but its worth the wait! Just bring $6 and you're set for the night and the next morning cuz its SOOO much food! They pack that thang tight! There are many food carts like this around new york but don't get confused! You MUST find the YELLOW BAG!! and YELLOW MEN!
Whats not to like about this place, cheap ($6), huge portions, and al fresco dining. Who needs the sit down joints when you got the halal cart? ?Lamb and chicken combo is the bomb, the white sauce is where it is at, and the chili sauce is atomic.. This cart runs like a well oiled machine, the guy passes the last customers food behind his back to them while he's taking your money. Not to miss..
i am not joking when i say this is where all truly great night-outs end. i seriously cannot imagine a better way to bring a night out on the town to a close by visiting this street cart. but to be entirely fair, C&R (as it is known to its fans) doesn't require a night our partying for it to be delicious - it is perfectly incredible in and of itself, whether you decide to have it for dinner or some post partying replenishment. the lines are LONG but totally worth the wait! c&r is so good, i'm pretty sure they have one of these carts in heaven. it's the kind of food that you get intense cravings for - not the cravings that pass after a few hours/days, but the type of craving that lasts until it's fulfilled. there are really only two things you should be ordering here: (1) chicken/lamb combo and rice or (2) chicken and rice. in my experience, getting the purely lamb platter has been too salty while the chicken is less so and can balance it out. once the men in the yellow hand over your food in that all too familiar shiny take out tray, you're ready for the most important party - the adding of the sauce. the white sauce is MAGICAL. sure, many have ventured a guess as to what goes in the white sauce, but no one knows for sure.... all we know is that it is AMAZING. so amazing that if i could bold and italicize it, i would. don't ask questions, just squirt a generous amount onto the meat and be thankful for its very existence. next comes the hot sauce. personally, i LOVE spice and i pour the red sauce on, but BE FOREWARNED that this hot sauce is HOT. i am talking about the still burns 5 minutes after you taste it directly on your tongue to the point where it feels like your tongue may or may not be sweating kind of hot. however, for the remaining taste buds not burned off by the hot sauce, it is a party in your mouth. IF YOU HAVEN'T TRIED IT ALREADY, GO TRY IT!!!! :) ***SIDE STORY: There was this one Saturday night at 3am when I went there with a few friends. The platter had just been handed to me and I was turning around to get some sauce when it slipped out of my hand and fell entirely all over the back and side of one of the beloved men in yellow. I actually thought he'd be furious at me for basically throwing my food at him and making a mess (think also, probability of swarming pigeons), but he was really nice about it and told me it was fine and even handed me a brand new plate without charging for it!!! to top it all off, he even SMILED at me (although, this probably would not have happened if i was a guy). so in sum, not only is the food awesome, but the guys who run it are awesome too!
LOVE THIS PLACE! awesome cheap food is amazing! just get the combo chicken/lamb with rice and veggies for 6 bucks and own it with white sauce. if your brave enough get some hot sauce. Nonetheless the food taste great and even better late at night after drinking lol. So much flavor and add the heated pita on top every bite is just fun and good. Yes its fatty but worth a visit every now and then. Their lines get long at night so just be patient and enjoy the free smell of awesomeness as you wait for your own. if you haven't gone here yet just check it out, worth it.
So after hearing so many friends of mine rave about the Halal Guys, my boyfriend and I decided to be brave and try some cart food. ?You can easily spot the Halal Guys with their yellow shirts and yellow take-out bags. ?And don't forget the loooong line of people. ?You have to beware of the imposters though who also wear yellow shirts but do not have yellow bags, just make sure the cart says "halal guys' on it. The first time I went I ordered the chicken platter and my boyfriend ordered the combo platter. ?We were both pleasantly suprised by how awesome our food tasted and the portion sizes for only $6. ?I am not a big fan of lamb but tried some off of my boyfriends combo platter and could not believe how good it tasted. ?We have gone back twice more and both ordered the combo platters. ?Beware of the red sauce though because it is extremely spicy. The only reason I am not giving the Halal Guys 5 stars is for cleanliness. ?I know they are a street cart but cleanliness is important. ?None of the workers wear gloves and on my last visit one of the workers was taking something out of his mouth (it appeared to be pit of some kind) and throwing it onto the floor and then proceeded to flip the pitas with the hand that touched the pit in his mouth. ?I saw him do it a few times and was a little skeeved.
These guys are legit. Everyone hating on them hasn't eaten as much street meat as me, i guaranteeeee it. I would give them 5 stars but they take a bit long really. But as far as gyros and chicken over rice platters go, this IS as good as it gets...
This is the one place I MUST stop every time I go to New York. ?I will go out of my way to get a plate from the Halal cart. ?$6 for a plate?? ?Sign me up! ?And the options are simple...chicken, lamb or combination.
So damn good and cheap! ?I think it was $6 for the chicken platter. A few words of advice: White Sauce, drench your platter with this sauce. "Dry chicken? What dry chicken?" Hot sauce is hot, as in it can ruin your meal and your stomach. The Halal Guys really earned their 5 stars when they were OPEN the day after HURRICANE IRENE came through NYC. Very pleased to see the cart when walking up to the intersection, since most all other restaurants, especially the brick and mortar joints, were closed.
"Make sure you go to 53rd & 6th for chicken and rice!" My first time visiting NYC and that was the one thing people kept telling me. So, a late night adventure with a group of friends, we strolled over to this halal cart for some chicken and rice. Turned onto 53rd and the smell coming from the grill had us salivating like Pavlov's dog. Fortunately, there wasn't a long line when we got there so we were able to get our food quickly. I loved it! And the white sauce + hot sauce gave it an extra kick. This was the first thing I craved when touching down back home in LA. You'll definitely get your money's worth at this halal cart. Definitely a must try if you ever visit the Big Apple. :]
Date/Time: ?Friday - 10:30pm Occasion: ?Snacking Party of: ?Two Location: ?A typical food cart amassed with a long line Ordered: ?Chicken and rice halal platter Total incl gratuity: $6 Even though we had eaten several meals already that day, we happened to be strolling around midtown and found ourselves at the ever so famous 56th and 9th Halal Street Cart after dinner. ?After so much acclaim and seeing such a ridiculously long line, we had to see for ourselves what all the hype was about so we got in line. ?The line moves fairly quick. ?We waited about 10 minutes. ?You can choose lamb, chicken, or combo. ?Since I don't eat lamb, we opted for chicken. ?They top yellow rice with hashed chicken and a few slices of pita. ?Like they say in Fried Green Tomatoes - "Secret's in the sauce". ?This platter would not be what it is without the white sauce you smother your rice platter in. ?It's like a creamy white lardy sweet mayo. ?It goes well with the white sauce and of course some dabs of the hot sauce as well. ?The hot sauce is not that hot - It adds a nice kick. ? My verdict? ?It is definitely worth trying. ?Very good! ?However, beware...it is EXTREMELY high in calories so those watching the waistline - stay far far away from this cart. ?It won't be good for you!
We stayed at the Hilton 4 nights & this line never stopped. ?I asked everyone what the fuss was about & they said this was the #1 cart in the city....On day 3 we decided to give the line a try. ?The line moved quickly & the cook & his helpers were the same ones I had seen every day & every night prior...the portions looked large so my husband & I decided to split a plate for lunch. ?We had the lamb & rice plate with some red & lots of white sauce....I agree with the previous poster- tasty but overrated! ?Everyone kept telling me I had to try this place so, needless to sayI had high expectations. ?Both my husband & I though the food was okay at best. ?Price was cheap- 2 sodas & one plate $10. ?It was tasty, a bit oily, seasoned well but nothing that amazing...unless of course every other Halal cart in the city is ?horrible. The portion was large enough for the two of us & we had some left over. ?I love Middle Eastern food- but this was just food from a cart- nothing to get all hyped-up over. ?I truly doubt we'd go here again, except maybe to see if perhaps our experience was a fluke. But since we saw the same workers all day & all night- my guess is this is the same food that became famous on Food Network or what other media outfit got these guys put on the map. ?What impressed me most was that these guys never had a line of less than 10 people & often up to 30 or more...they proabably live on Park Ave., when they aren't filling $6 orders of food to go for half of NYC. ? 3 stars because it was cheap & tasty and the service was quite promt considering the long lines.
All of my friends who have been here said this is a must do/eat when you're in NYC. So I gave it a try and I gotta admit I was blown away. Fast, cheap, and GOOD! The only thing that sucks is the line but it's worth the wait. What made my experience even better was the people of NYC. Don't let the stereotype of New Yorkers being rude fool you. Everyone is down to earth and cool. I met 2 girls out there and they paid for my meal as a welcome to NY treat. You can't beat that! I will definitely come back to this cart every time i visit NYC.
Love it, can't wait to get it again next time I'm up. I hear there are clones and copycats nearby, caveat emptor! The white sauce and hot sauce get along very nicely!
Why is this place the best? I don't know. Just is.
My friend recommended to try this famous halal cart. I honestly didn't think it will be anything outstanding as it is street food after all. OMG how wrong I was! Saturday night after several drinks I felt like this is the perfect time to try the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. At 1am we stud in line for 15 mins to pick up our chicken and lamb combo. The guys were working incredible fast and the food was surprisingly hot even after the 8 blocks walk back to the hotel in high heels in the cold. The food was fantastic! Perfectly cooked and full of flavor (trust me even after a few drinks I can tell if something isn't good). All that for $6.
Finally I came this famous halal cart! On a Wednesday at 12:15 pm, 18 people in line, and the waiting time was 10 minutes sharp. Hope this info helps you judge the waiting time. As for the most important part, the food, I ordered combo (gyro and chicken) rice, $5(amazing!). The first thing I noticed was the hint of cumin seed, which adds appetizing flavor. The chicken and gyro were a bit crispy and had balanced spicy taste. I'm not really big fan of lamb, but I really enjoyed the lamb here. But above all, rice maybe the best part of this lunch box. Perfectly cooked! Well, honestly, still this was not a big surprise or sensational. I may be spoiled with another famous cart near my office, kwik meal. But I'll definitely come back when I miss yummy lamb here..!
i got food poisoning!!!
For street food, this place was the best value: large portion of food for just $6! But the chicken and lamb were rather dry, rice was bland and white sauce was not as tasty as all the reviews claimed. I don't think drowning food in sauces means the food is good - it means you're drinking a lot of sauce. Negative: while in line for about 20 minutes just before 1pm on a Tuesday, I'm about 3 guests back from ordering and a couple of suits show up and are allowed to cut since they're buddies of the staff. I understand hooking up your friends and all (worked at a bubble tea cafe for a while during high school), but when it's still considered 'rush' ?time and you've got around 30+ customers in line? Not cool to let your friends cut from a principle standpoint.
there's a reason why this place is legen - wait for it... ....dary. It's all about that secret white sauce. Lather that stuff on. Don't be stingy or "considerate" to the person after you. they have enough. trust me. When you think you've put enough, put a little more. It's not like this is ambrosia or anything, but it's something you have to experience when you're in NYC.
Plain chicken, plain rice, that I can plainly cook myself! Yes I am complaining. HALAL NASTY.
You must eat here if you haven't. This is something that locals and tourists alike need to indulge in. The food is always hot, there is always a line, and it is sure to fill you up! Make sure to douse your chicken (or lamb) and rice with white sauce, just be careful with the red (read: hot) sauce as it is much spicier than most people expect. After you've got everything, grab a seat nearby, or along the edge of the fountain. The best time to go without having to wait super long is mid-week after midnight, although you will likely still encounter a wait. Warning: Do not skip the line or attempt to skip the line, the people that have waited for 30 minutes for their food will be upset and may lash out (it has happened).
Sooo tasty. So, I agree that it helps to be in an inebriated state to enjoy this. ?After a night at the cigar bar, my guy was in need of a late night creep for something cheap and meaty. ?How many places are open @ 2 in the morning, and will get you your food in less than 3 minutes? ?Why these fine gentleman of the Halal Guys are...they're magic I say. We rode across 53rd street and saw the half a block long line at the 6th avenue cart. ?My guy scoffed when I asked him if he wanted to wait in line for the "experience". ?He wanted food, and sooner rather than later. ?Being the sweetie that I am, I told him to keep driving to 7th avenue where we parked across from....another Halal Guys cart...and this one never has a line! ?Seriously, I don't know why people choose to stand in line when the Halal Guys have the same exact food in a few carts around the area. ? Anyways, my guy was psyched when he saw that we didn't have to wait in line, he ordered a combo platter with white sauce and a little hot sauce (the best thing on the menu), and we were on our way home in less than 3 minutes! ?Ha! The food is delish! ?The lamb is salty and tender, the chicken is a little dry, but also tender. ?Def best if you mix them together and let the happiness baby that they make dance around on your tongue. ?I warned my guy about the hot sauce, but he's "Mr. Louisiana", and doesn't think that we Northern folk have a clue about heat...he was soo wrong. ?I couldn't stop laughing as he popped some food that was pretty drenched w/hot sauce into his mouth. ?All he could say was,"My word" as his eyes got big and started to water. ?I hurried and got him some water when he started to cough and utter curses about the heat that hit him like a ton of bricks. ?It was so hot that he took all of the food that the hot sauce was on and scooped it out of the platter. ?He actually threw away food. ?This is the man who almost stabbed me with his fork when he saw me reaching for his plate. ?Lol...consider yourself warned folks.
The wait isn't that long, but just cross this off your list and be done with it. ?Other halal carts are pretty tasty too.
this place is cheap, for 6 dollars you can really fill up, my friend and i split a combo rice plate (chicken and lamb, with pita, veggy, and rice) first off, im a health nut, i felt really guilty after i ate it and read online somewhere that one plate consisted of about 2045 calories, hard to believe? no, its believable, its quite obvious a lot of oil was used in the cooking, and not to mention the white sauce..isnt exactly fat free or low cal delicious? yes, but i think that i've had better..though i dont know where..this place just didnt stand out for me. i've had enough halal food to know when something really hits the spot, this place came close but no cigar not to mention these guys are mean and rude, i know they're food cart vendors and its amount turning over customers and being quick quick quick, but a wadded up ball of $1s for change and the "pay me and get out of my face" attitude does not make for good customer service
SHOOT ME PLEASE THIS PLACE IS DELICIOUS. I live in California, and there are times when I come look at pictures of the food ?because i'm starving in the middle of the night. So sad, but that is the closest I can get to it. I went to New York for a class trip, and i randomly got in line with some friends. If you've been anywhere else in New York NOTHING ELSE WILL GIVE YOU AS MUCH BANG for you buck unless you eat like 6 mcdoubles at Mcdonalds. Now for the taste, its off the charts nothing like it. Nothing as fresh or as flavorful. Not even salty, or too this or that. Just perfect. ADD THE WHITE SAUCE THATS on the side of the cart. Dont ask what it is, just do it. I recommend anyone going to New York to eat this or else they should stay home.
I love me some chicken and rice!!! ?I was introduced to 53rd and 6th chicken and rice when i was in college on long island and we would take trips to the city just for it. ?I get the chicken and rice and load it up with some delicious white sauce. ?Sooooo good. ?beware of the red sauce VERY SCPICY! ?But if you can handle it (i can't) i have heard from a bunch of people that it is tasty. ?If you havent been before, you need to go!!!! ?I believe they are only open from around 7pm to early morning. ?There is a fake cart there during the day. ?One time i went to get chicken and rice and it was raining, but there was still at least a 20 person line.
I didn't even check Yelp for reviews on this cart bc EVERYONE and their mother would tell me about the legitimacy of this chicken and rice joint. But I wish I did bc we put more than the recommended amt of red hot sauce and nearly had a throat / nasal burn! Watch out for that hot sauce man! But seriously everything else was heavenly lamb and chicken in your mouth. A sufficient amount of food, for $6, and you get pita, rice, chicken or lamb combo, lettuce, and amazing white sauce. Can't wait to come back here on my next NYC trip!
okay maybe i'm crazy, maybe i wasn't drunk enough, i don't know, but i didn't really enjoy it. at all. i am however middle eastern and eat food like this all the time, our basic comfort food but i didn't find it enjoyable, but i would give it another chance just because i feel like i have to according to these reviews and everyone i know basically. meh.
"The Guy". Better than most restaurant meals. I dream of this food. I will cry tears of joy when it next touches my lips. I have nightmares of when I drank only water with the hot sauce. Tears would not stop streaming down my face. I wish they delivered or had grubhub/seamless. Cancel that. I don't. While the lines are long, the wait is short (time wise... but you will get antsy in your pantsy), and that all adds to the magic. Taste (^_^) Bang for buck (^_^) Self-serve sauce (^_^) Available all night (^_^) The nearby Hilton not allowing Halal patrons to pee +(-_-)+ Glad I came. Both meanings. PROTIP: Beware, during the daytime, there are impostors (same color shirt, etc). ADDENDUM PROTIPS: 1. Order "no salad" to get more rice/meat. 2. Open the white sauce container, pour desired amount of hot sauce into white sauce, then stir. You will have an evenly distributed hot/white sauce combination!
We went here TWICE during our NYC trip, since our hotel was two blocks away (51st & 7th). My favorite order was the combo of lamb & chicken over yellow rice! ?I am not sure what the difference is between the guys wearing yellow and the other guys wearing white shirts, but we went with the yellow guys! Even though my boyfriend made the mistake of pouring a lot more of the BBQ sauce on our food (he thought it was hot sauce), the dish was still yummy!!!!
Lamb + chicken + falafel + rice + pita + "salad" + yogurt sauce + chili sauce = GUT BOMB.
I came here the first night I was in NYC and it was literally after we stuffed our faces with fried chicken at Bon Chon. I was told this was the best halal cart in town. And they weren't wrong at all. The line wasn't that bad when we got there, maybe because it was still early for all the drunkards to come eat here. But it was everything I had hoped for. The chicken was perfectly cooked, juicy and flavorful. The sauces were just as amazing. The red sauce was much hotter than I expected. I should have tasted it first before drenching my food with it. In general, for some reason, everything seems hotter than stuff in California. But the white sauce was something though. Despite not being able to finish my meal because it was too hot, it was damn delicious I must say. Sure as hell won't find anything like this in LA.
I don't usually eat lamb because of it's gaminess, but their combo of chicken and lamb with their yogurt sauce was so delicious! Definitely a place you need to stop by when your in NYC. Also beware of their hot sauce. It is burn your butthole hot!! so a little goes a long way.
I have heard so much about this cart, maybe even too much. Then I tried it. For the price and convienence, its worth the four stars. Is really one of the "best" things I have ever had? No, not by any means. The chicken was a little dry, but that is probably due to the fact that they have the chicken sitting there gathering heat for awhile. Rice was pretty tasty, but that was due to the mystery sauce they piled on. Recommend! but you don't need me to tell you that ;)
There are many food carts in the city but this is a go-to place every time I am in NYC. Love, love, love it.
YUM. upon first glance, I didn't understand what the big deal was. after 1 bite, I still wasn't convinced. But the more I ate it, the more I couldn't stop scooping & feeding, scooping & feeding nonstop. I don't think I even bothered chewing. After 2 "sessions" I believe the best option is chicken + lamb over rice combo. The lamb tastes better, and is by far more tender, it gets heavy. Chicken's lighter, leaner feel is a nice contrast. The white sauce is awesome, but don't get overly greedy, because it ends up getting too creamy. A teeny bit of hot sauce + 2 tablespoons of white sauce well mixed w/ the rice/meat/veg is what I believe to be the perfect combination.
This place is awesome!. great after a late night of drinking, but beware of impostors and lines.
Great combination of your choice of meat (chicken, lamb, or both) rice, salad, and pita with the speediness of fast food. Your plate will always come fresh and moist (from what some believe is due to the high turnover rate). No dry meat, cold pita, or hard rice found here!! The "add your own sauce" part can be tricky, but all the pro's know the perfect technique: - completely drench the top with a layer of white sauce, - crisscross some BBQ (make sure it's actually BBQ sauce and NOT hot sauce! You know it's Hot Sauce since the tip of the squeeze bottle is burned off!!!), - add about 10 drops (yes I said DROPS) of HOT sauce for some spiciness. If and only if u can handle really spicy food, go up to 15 -20 drops. For those who don't believe me when I saw the Hot Sauce is like liquid FIRE, try some before you put it on your food! A few tips on how you know you're at the right place for the greatest Halal Cart in NYC: 1) Beware of the impostors, they too will wear yellow shirts and serve their food in round aluminum containers. 2) This cart lies on the northwest corner of 53rd and 6th. 3) If your not waiting in line for this food, your at the wrong cart! 4) This place is ONLY open from 7pm to 4am, however, I did witness them continue to serve food till around 6am since the line would not disappear. Overall thought: "Tobin's best"- Street Meat
For $6, you can have the heavenly dish known as "Combo over rice" and then if you're like me you will add white sauce only. When it's fresh, and it almost always is given people queue up for a long time to get it, this street meat is the best around. I always apologize to anybody nearby while I'm eating for any noises they may not be familiar with. ?I basically shovel this in as quickly as possible, enoying every single bite. I actually think if I were on death row and I had to contemplate my last meal ever, this would be in the top five choices!
Went on a Friday night / Saturday morning at around 1 am. Let me tell you, definitely all hype. It's chicken or lamb, rice, tiny salad and couple pieces of pita for $6.00. Price is not bad, but for the price there are so much better meals that could be had out there (i.e. Chinatown).There is nothing to write home about or to die for. It's a decent platter, nothing spectacular or special. The only compliment that I would give them would be for their hot sauce. I love spicy food in general so I'm used to heat, but hot damn their hot sauce set my mouth on fire. No idea what's in their white sauce, probably consist of yogurt, maybe some mayo and who knows what else. I do really want the recipe for their hot sauce.
Yumyumyumyumyum. Chicken & lamb combo covered in white sauce. I especially loved the rice. Came here on a Tuesday night so there wasn't much of a line, but there were still hella people eating their platters nearby! I dont know what makes their food so good, but I gave into the hype and I'm glad I got to try it at least once! :)
Delicious!!!! I love halal food and they have some of the most delicious halal there is to be found! Yes there is a line sometimes but I have this theory the longer the line is the better the food is, so it is def worth the wait.
The best 2300 calories $6 will buy you!
We ordered the chicken and lamb combo and my sisters and I shared one plate. ?There was three of us, it was late at night and we just wanted to 'try it' as it was our first time in NYC. ?Hindsight now tells us we should have ordered our own. ?Every last bit was eaten from our foil platter. ?It was a great meal at a great price. ?I did like the lamb better than the chicken and if I return, I will opt for the lamb plate and likely add a lot more white sauce. ?But overall it was all a treat.
Go here at 4am. Order lamb + rice. Extra white sauce. Only a dash of hot sauce. Mix well with lettuce. Pass out. Rinse and Repeat.
My cousin and I had just left MoMA and were trying to think of a place to grab a quick, light lunch, when we spotted this cart. ?He had heard great things about it, but never got around to trying it. ?Fortunately, being 2pm on a Saturday, the line wasn't very long at all so we picked this as our lunch spot. We both ordered lamb gyros with the white and hot sauce. ?For a handheld meal, that cost $10 for both of ours, it was surprisingly really good and filling! Next time, when I have a hearty appetite, I'll definitely have to try one of their plates.
We have been here through snow, sleet, rain, floods, earthquakes, monsoons, tornadoes, and a few comet showers. If Judgement Day were to come and claim the last day of humanity, this Halal Cart would find a way to set up in the Kingdom of Heaven and Hell. First of all the prices are rediculous! And please top my lamb/chicken with that creamy white sauce that I purposely leave dripping from my mouth!! I've come to this cart at all hours and with some amazement I have always wondered where they get their restock of meats. (all of a sudden the pigeons have disappeared?) I love you chicken and rice! more than I miss summer sex with oriental geisha! hehe
Their combo platter (lamb, chicken and rice) is legit. ?Make sure you get all three sauces, white, red (hot) and BBQ. ?The only thing they don't have is toasted pita.
Ok so there are three carts and supposidely they're the same but you may as well wait an extra five minutes and go for the original which is on the South East corner of 53rd & 6th. You literally say what you want and 10seconds later its in your hands lol.. im not sure if thats a good thing or bad thing? ill take it either way. words of caution: the hot sauce is REALLY HOTT... and i love hot sauce but this was insane. be careful!
You know something is good when you crave it later! I wish I lived in NY so I could go out and get some! It's great because it's open til the wee hours of the morning! I got the combo (lamb and chicken) so that I could try both. They were both pretty good, but I prefer the chicken. ?Overall, it was a little greasy but was still pretty tasty! And the white sauce was great! Make sure to put lots of it on your ?dish! NOTE: The hot sauce is VERY spicy! I tasted a little bit that I got on my finger and whoa! it was SPICY! You only need a couple drops to spice up your dish. Try it before you dump it on cause you could ruin it by making it too spicy. My only complaint is that I would've liked more veggies (but then again, I love veggies in my dishes). They serve it with some lettuce. But I would've like a little more, and maybe even some onions or tomatoes. But I get it, it's a chicken and rice truck so I shouldn't expect anything more than chicken and rice. It's pretty good; I can't wait til I visit NY again so I can eat some more!
This place is pretty satisfying when you crave halal. But the first time I ever had it, I was hooked instantly. I went back there three nights in a roll to satisfy my cravings for Chicken and Rice. The bad part resulted from my manic addiction was that I suffered from heavy diarrhea deuce for a whole week. I could not stop squirting. Nonetheless, the food keeps me coming back from time to time. Hot sauce = WINNNINNGGGGGG.
Another disappointed food cart, first the Japa-Dog in Vacouver and now the highly reviewed NY Halal Cart. ?Maybe my expectations were already so high that the only way to go was down. ?Yes its $6 for a good size portion and the white sauce is good but I've had just as good or even better Halal Cart. ?Plus we just came from DC and found a Halal Truck at the National Mall that was wayyyy better. ? I got the combo plate with the shredded chicken and chopped up lamb (similiar to grind beef). ?Not sure if it was lamb but sure I'll take your word for it. ? The chicken was dry and rubberish similar to canned chicken. ?The lamb had no grill marks and very bland. ?I had to dip my meat into the white sauce for added flavor since the only thing that had flavor was the white sauce. ?It comes in a round container with a yellow bag. ?Who knows maybe they were the impostors pretending to be the actual Halal Cart that night. ? My three star review is based on comparison to other food carts. ?Let's just say I would not take a cab all the way across town for it but if I'm in the neighborhood and want something quick and cheap than this is your best bet.
the best late night food to eat in the city!!! i fly to nyc every summer just to eat this! my halal brothers never makes me wait in line which i give them a extra star because the line would be 150+ long! must order the chicken/lamb combo! which comes with the yellow rice pilaf ,salad & pita bread. ? must add extra creamy white sauce is unbelievable..it is so good that they gave me 2 bottles to take home!! much love to my halal brothers oh and the hot sauce is hot enough to make your mouth numb!
This is ridiculously glorious. ?In a city where a mere cookie can cost you upwards of three dollars this simple cart manages to pack enough deliciousness into a sizable portion for under $10 that it should be considered a glitch in the Matrix. ?I literally wanted to get drunk upon taking my first bite just so I could experience what I was eating in a different state of mind...thus appreciating the same taste TWICE. ? The best parts (in my opinion) are the jizz inducing white sauce and the buttery, almost cheesy rice. ?These two components create a combination of savory and creamy so incredible that, in combination with the chicken create a party in my mouth and I DO NOT EVEN MIND THE FACT THAT THE PARTY IS IN MY MOUTH. ?And yes, the party in my pants was also invited. ? My goodness. ?If this chicken and rice were a man I would have no issues with letting him have his way with me. Oh and I also happened to go on a Thursday afternoon so there was no line. ?This probably enhanced my experience to unknown proportions, given that lines and popular places in NY go together like...chicken n rice.
I wouldn't normally give a fast food place 5 stars but this place definitely deserves all the stars it can get. Its $6 dollars... SIX! for a butt load of chicken and rice. I don't live in NY but whenever I go visit, I try to go everyday. The first time I had it, I couldn't finish one by myself. Why it deserves 5 stars. It's fast, it's consistent, it's cheap, it's a lot, and it's delicious. Whether you are sober or not, it's good all the time. I'm amazed at how they keep the chicken so tasty and not dry. WARNING: For those that think you can handle hot sauce. Don't underestimate the red sauce. When I first got it and they just gave me a tiny little thing of red sauce, I said nahh.. give me more. But one of those tiny things of red sauce is enough to get your tongue burning. I wish they had this in Atlanta. : /
Cannot say anymore than has already been said. This place is freaking amazing. Amazing while sober, probably even better if drunk. Hot sauce is freaking spicy.
After I arrived at Laguardia, I went to my friends place to drop off my stuff then we took the train to Koreatown (not really a town, just one street) had dinner at Mad for Chicken and many rounds of happy hour priced beers at Ichiumi. Around 1:30 AM we took off to go to the Halal Guys at 53rd & 6th. I ordered the combo plate with chicken and lamb with saffron rice and 3 pieces of pita bread. ?The char on the beef and lamb is so good with the rice and the crisp cabbage, to add to it the white sauce makes everything THAT much better. BE CAREFUL OF THE RED SAUCE, I over did it and for the next day i had "fire in the hole". Guys there are super friendly and make good food. Definetly will be back.
For the price and the amount and quality you get, this is worth it!! I visited NYC for 6 days and I got Halal cart THREE times. Yes, three. I'm probably becoming lamb myself. Get the combo plate! and easy on the red hot sauce... it's fatal!
Not going to lie, it was really good. But I want to say that this place is over hyped. It's nothing special really. I think people rave about it because of the amount of meat they load their dishes with. It's good quality halal you're getting. But it's over hyped. No wow factor like I'm going to die from withdrawals from this place.
probably the best food ive had in nyc when i came up for a visit. it tastes better when youve had a couple drinks though and i preferred the combo even though its lamb.. their red sauce is what makes the dish though i think.. id be able to use it on anything. def. a place to go if youre new to nyc
Excellent value and taste. ?Not sure I would line up for more than 15 mins for this, but I've seen these guys have a line over 50 ppl long........at 2 in the morning on a winter night. These guys have a long line for a reason!
Found myself in Midtown last week for a two day meeting. ?While Yelping for lunch options, I realized we were only a block south of this landmark vending cart. ?I dragged all of my co-workers here with me and I don't think any of them were disappointed. ?In fact they were more than eager to return the 2nd day. ?The first day we went it was raining a little bit so the line was short and moved quickly. ?Not so the second day, there were maybe 15-20 people in line in front of us and the line seemed to crawl. ?In fact it took a little more than half an hour for us to finally get our grub. ?This just isn't satisfactory, esp considering all of the food is already prepared and they just have to dole it into a tin for you to take with you. The food is super tasty and just about worth the wait. ?I had the lamb platter both days (minus salad). ?This has to be the best meal that $5 can buy, esp in Manhattan. ?Rice, ground lamb and some pita smothered in white sauce. ?Go easy with the red sauce it's super hot and you'll pay for it later.
Pretty awesome white sauce and knock your head off hot sauce make the combination plate into a scrumptious lunch. ?The big portion of lettuce, rice, lamb, chicken, and pita was plenty for me and the fiance to share, so it turned out to be an extremely cheap lunch too. ?It wasn't oh-my-god, gotta-write-home-about-this amazing, but I wasn't expecting it to be--and you shouldn't either. ?It's good street food. ?I'll go back when I'm in the area.
Seriously don't understand the hype over this place. ?Yeah it's open late and yeah it's a lot of food, but STILL, convenience and size is never a good enough reason to love something so much. ?Don't people care about quality anymore? ?The food is not tasty at all. ?It's pretty bland actually. ?Also, the meat is skanky. ?It's New York for goodness sake; there's better late night eats out there without all the rude, drunk, sketchy people in line!
First HALAL Cart/meal in NYC and i'm totally loving it! They had a really small menu which was good! Their menu consist of Falafal(Spelling) and 2 types of meat dishes, either lamb or chicken and lamb. I ordered the Lamb while Lily had the chicken and lamb! LAMB WAS BETTTTER! :)
Always go where the long lines are. Even if you've been living under a big fat rock and have never heard about the chicken and rice platters from here, follow the above food mantra and it will be unlikely to fail too hardcore. Even if it does, the platter is like, what, $6? Small price to pay for a large reward. This cart is so much better than any of the other competitors trying to leech business away in the nearby vicinity. For all the impatient people who grow tired of waiting for the best chicken and rice, just wait!!! (the lamb is okay too but I prefer the chicken platter) You'll be so disappointed if you go somewhere else. Secret ingredient white sauce is the key to this place's success. I know that sounds disgusting but it's a legitimate claim. In conclusion, get the chicken and rice from here and douse white sauce all over it. Add the red sauce if you want to make it a real hot mess. Awesome possum!
Agreed with Miss Bonnie B. ?They need to bring it to the bay area. ?We had it 3 days out of the 4 when we were in NYC. ? We got tricked by another Cart around the corner. ?So make sure you go to the right Halal Cart.
I come here pretty often for lunch during the work week, but I had my first non-sober experience here Friday night around 12:30AM. ?The line was like 20 people deep at this point, but they really keep the line moving fast. ?Like usual the food was awesome. ?It's nice that their cart is right in front of ledge that you can sit on. ?Street carts tend to be very hit or miss, but this one is very consistent. ?They have great lamb, and an even better white sauce. ?I love that they keep the bottles of sauce out so you can apply it yourself. ?Whenever i give another cart a try, it never beats the food from here. ?The closest i can find to this cart is the Greek Truck, but they're only around for lunch during the week.
Holy Cow this stuff is GOOD! My wife and I were staying at the Hilton next door and we noticed at 2 AM that there was this long line of people waiting to get some food outside. We kept wondering what it was, and then finally at around 2:30 AM we said screw it, lets go see what is going on down there. Holy Crap that food was good. When we went down to the street to see what was going on we had no idea what were getting. We actually thought it was a hot dog stand. YES, WE ARE NOT FROM NYC, GO FIGURE! We tried to go back the next night and get some for the road, but the guys seemed different and shady, so we skipped it. But no matter what, we can not stop raving about how much we loved the chicken and rice!
One of the best dishes we had in NYC, and by far the least expensive. ?It will be the first place we go next time we visit; best chicken and lamb I've had in a long time, maybe ever. ?The white sauce is delicious!
Lives up to the hype! Had the combo plate and it was unbelievably good! ?And the portions were so big, I didn't even need to eat dinner that night (but did anyway - at Carmine's). ? It's been 3 months since we were in NYC. We ate a lot of good food. But this is the one meal I can't wait to get back to. ?Unbelievable!!! I just need an excuse to go back to the City.
u know that episode of How I Met Your Mother where Barney has a video resume of himself...and there's an avalanche of "AWESOME"? That's exactly what The Halal Guys mixed plate is. AWESOME x 100. PS - JFK Security is cool with you taking halal as a carry-on. lol
OMG- Be careful with the RED HOT SAUCE, it's REALLY HOT! I love spicy food and I can handle more than the average person when it comes to chillies and spicy food. Not sure if it was because my stomach was empty, but I got the combination plate to go (chicken, lamb, rice, and salad) with 2- 2oz white sauce and 2- quarter size red sauces (.25 oz) to go. I mixed the red hot sauce with the white sauce and put it on my plate. The first bite was delicious and after a few bites the heat lingered behind my throat and I could feel my intestines burning. I couldn't eat another, so I put it in the fridge to cool it down. When I woke up in the morning, I had it for breakfast and it was really good! Its so cheap for NY standards. $6 bucks for a plate (not sure how healthy or clean it is though) I would come back and eat it again minus the red hot sauce. That RED HOT SAUCE will burn your A$$!
One of my friends looooooooves their chicken/lamb and rice. He would literally make a trip just for that. I like the food too but mostly I love their hot sauce - just makes everything so much better.
If you go to NY you need to go here! Everytime I go to NY, I have to stop by. If you're not into hanging around drunk people, going when they open (like 7 pm?) is a good time - the line isn't too bad. Food is inexpensive and FRICKEN TASTY. The sauces are sooo good. Don't put too much spicy red sauce though, or it might give you ulcers :)
Short & sweet: Service: 2 Food: 3 Wait time: 10 minutes Price: 4 Cleanliness of bathroom: n/a The problem with going to places that everyone else has waxed poetry about is that it can be a little anti-climactic. The rice was good, the chicken and lamb were good, the white sauce was good, the spicy sauce was spicy as hell... everything was good and the portions were huge, but I wasn't awed. There wasn't a party in my mouth. And I thought, "This was what everyone was talking about?"
YUMMY YUMMY. it was so delicious that i couldn't help but scarf most of it down at dinner and then polished off the rest later that night. and who says one person can't finish the entire portion... i do wonder tho if the super-high ratings can be due in part to cognitive dissonance. after all, when you get this steaming hot bowl of food after spending a looong time waiting in the cold, then aren't you automatically inclined to love it to justify that investment and energy? but i suppose you can also argue that the expectations would be even higher then. anyways, love it! and now that my work is a few blocks away for the next month, i will be a weekly visitor. as for the time...last night, i got there around 715 and they were nowhere close to ready. after standing in the cold for a while, i wandered off to ann taylor loft and came back just before 730, only to wait another 15-20 minutes while they finished the prep. the line was only about 10-15 people long then. next time, i would aim to get here by 745. waiting 10 minutes is much preferable to 30. i also had the dubious privilege of seeing the worst parallel parker in the world. seriously, i stood there for 10 minutes watching one guy in a black sedan try to get his back wheel off of the curb, to no avail. he even almost hit an old man! there were collective gasps all around. finally he gave up. but hey, it distracted me from my shivering misery for a while.
loveeeeeeeee it!!!!!!
I was disappointed last year when I came to visit New York for the first time and couldn't cross off the Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th Street on my foodie to-do list. How funny is it that a year later when I am back in NYC for a conference that my hotel is right across the street from it?? I stumbled across the street after experiencing my first snow in NYC to grab a quick lunch since the conference wasn't going to feed us for lunch. Even with the snow, the line took at least 10 minutes, but digging into the food later at the comfort of my hotel room while watching TV was well worth it. They give you a very generous portion of chicken with lettuce and tomato and rice for $6. Definitely do not say no to the white sauce nor the hot sauce---it makes so much better! And don't eat it separately...you have to have a piece of the chicken with the lettuce, tomato, and rice mixed in with the sauces in every bite. Best way to go. I can only imagine the wait on a non-rainy/non-snowy night, but for the food and price...I wouldn't mind it at all!
The best middle eastern platters, the rest are imitations. Watch out for the looooong lines though specially late at night or early in the morning depending on how you look at it. All the drunk clubbers standing in line for 45 minutes to get their fix ;). Good times!
Everyone and their moms told me to go here. ?I didn't know Asian moms liked Halal food off of street corners. I liked it, but to be honest, I like the regular halal carts. ?This one was recommended because it's very simple, just meat and rice and a sprinkle of lettuce. ?I think it's the sauce here that everyone is addicted to. ?I'm sure it's mayo, yogurt, spices, and crack. ?It's delicious, but what won me over was the spicy sauce. ?It's like tapatio times 10. ?I used like 3 of the packets on my order. ?I think I prefer the regular halal carts because they use a lot of onion and doesn't feel as heavy. Cheap, fast, yummy, rude cooks. ?They questioned me when I asked for extra sauce. ?boo!
Walked to the cart after the SNL show. ?Let me tell you, the food here was worth waiting in the pouring rain for. ?The line was not too bad although I heard it can get pretty crazy. The food..Oh my, my mouth is watering just thinking about it. ?Soo soo delicious. ?Make sure you add this on your "Things to Do List". ?I could fly to NY everyday for this meal!
You can have your lamb and eat some chicken too with the delicious $5 combo meal. ?The rice to meat ratio is also great: not so much rice that you forget you had any lamb/chicken to begin with, yet enough to balance out the rather heavy meat plate. The big draw for me is the quantity...the 1.5x serving size quantity. The quality of the meat is definitely above average, but debatable when compared to other carts (e.g. Kwik cart). The hot sauce is very much the opposite of cold, so I'd recommend getting the little plastic cup instead of having it poured on. The line can be long, but generally on work weeks it's tolerable. In the winter it's actually a short wait.
While visiting NYC, this street cart was mentioned to us by a friend who said we must check it out. ?We knew this was the cart as we saw a line. ?We got the chicken and it was very tasty. ?Quite a different experience as I am not used to getting food off a street from a cart in San Diego. ? I am glad we've tried it!
I saw the line and immediately knew this was the one. The white sauce is divine with the combo platter. Even on a cold and rainy ass day I enjoyed eating this wonderful culinary dish. Tourists and locals alike must try this.
Beware the red sauce! Try two packets of white to one packet of the red sauce. There's multiple carts now and I don't really notice the difference between the carts. It's all the same food. I don't know how but it doesn't matter how full I am, I can always eat more. You're pick of chicken, lamb, or combo. You can't go wrong.
After a long of touring the city with a friend, we were lucky enough to walk down 6th and find a nearly non-existent line. We ordered a chicken and lamb combo and found a nice seat at Rockefeller sq. The proceeding moments of my life were ?magical. An amalgamation of chicken, lamb, pita, and rice swam in a pool of white and red sauces. The white sauce is pure liquid cocaine to the foodie within. As I ate from the generic aluminum bowl I quickly returned to the reality courtesy of the red sauce. Dont be like us and just order the plate and pour on whatever sauces you want without a single drink or drink vendor in sight. Great place to go grab some quality fast food (yes, those can all exist simultaneously) with great portions and low price. Convenient location within short walking distance to Times sq and other touristy locations without all the touristy things. Things to note: Red = Hot White = heaven Chicken is good, lamb is good, combos are great.
the highlight of my NYC trip: chicken and lamb over rice w/ pita bread and white & red sauce. this plate alone is worth the $400 airfare cross-country. chicken was tender and lean down to the last bite. lamb has a distinct taste i can only describe as herbal, but can get a bit intense towards the end. sauces are unlimited so sauce it up!
It's very confusing to find this place bc there were 3 halal truck out of the 4 corners at 53rd & 6th? I had no idea which one was which, but i just went for the one with the longest line - when in doubt just follow other hungry souls. Anyhow, i got the chicken & rice combo & it was so delish. ?The goodness factor would have prob tripled if you have this after a night out drinking. Cheap & good, can't beat that deal. Try it if you're not turned off by the long line
wow, i must've been just as lucky as ken k. when i came here we literally waited 15 minutes. ?my girlfriend dragged me to 53rd and 6th for a food experience that she said would haunt me once i returned to cali. i watched warily as the man scooped chicken, lamb, rice, and pita into the little aluminum pan. ?i winced as i saw him douse the entire combo in white sauce (refer back to my phobia of white condiments) and watched as he dribbled a little bit of red sauce over it. ?i leaned in and whispered "more red sauce". he raised one eyebrow and asked me to reconsider. i growled "more". so he gave the overall dish another good squirt of the red stuff. ?we walked a little ways and opened up our cartons to eat. i wish i had just taken the entire bottle of the red sauce cause that was MONEY. ?the combination was beyond anything i had eaten before. 5 stars all the way
One of the the best dishes $6.00 can get you in New York City. When you're drunk at 3am, THE best dish $6.00 can get you in New York City. Every component of this meal is bursting with flavor. People have referred to the white sauce as "crack" sauce and I totally agree. Don't ever tell me what's in it. I don't want to know. All I know is it ?that it aids in clogging my arteries and tastes like heaven. Their hot sauce is extremely spicy, so don't over do it. I always get the chicken & lamb combo - moist and so delicious. Call it whatever you want: platters, chicken & rice, halal cart, just go get some!
I get it. At 2am, this stuff makes great drunk food. At 12pm, for $6, this stuff makes a cheap, copious lunch. But earth-shattering or life-changing? Not really. The line goes pretty quickly - I probably waited for 15 minutes max. Yes, the lamb/chicken combo is the way to go -- you get a heaping ladle of tender chicken and diced lamb over orange rice, some lettuce leaves, and a few slices of pita. Covered in white sauce and hot sauce (if you so choose). For all you control freaks out there, they have little containers of both sauces already filled up and ready to go, so you can get them on the side in a hurry. I like to think that I'm a very adventurous eater, but I'm generally skeptical about street food. The good thing about this place is that I didn't even give it a thought as I devoured my meal. Yes, it was really delicious comfort food. On a colder, rainy day, it filled my belly and put a smile on my face. Mixed all together, the white sauce and the hot sauce definitely complete the dish. Yes, the hot sauce is good. The white sauce is nothing to write home about. Together, they work. But it's not like this is gourmet sauce here - there are no complex flavors, no intriguing undertones. Like I said, it didn't change my life. If it were a little healthier (and the wait were shorter), I would add it to my lunch rotation -- but alas, it will have to be an infrequent indulgence.
I've been coming here for almost a decade and although there are complaints, it's the best halal cart food in ny. It's different, the meat is well marinated and spiced, and I always go for the combo (lamb and chicken) cuz I can't choose. Service has gone a bit on the rude side... Asking for a to go lid seemed to them like the biggest trouble... but I guess money does that to businesses... Oh wells. At least the food is still awesome. ESP on a rainy chilly night.
I roll up to the cart and the guy asks, "Mixed?" I hesitate for a moment, then say, "yea," as if I knew what he meant. He fills the round foil tray with half chicken and half lamb meat. (Ohhhh...so that's what he meant!) The white sauce is legit, meat is well-seasoned, and the rice is like some bomb-digitty pilaf. The portions they give for $5 are a respectable meal that SHOULD be split with one other person. Screw that though. Mine, alllll mine! PS: I ate this while sober too, so I'd imagine for late night this is grubbery at its finest.
They offer either lamb or chicken piled on top of some yellow rice and lettuce with some pita bread on the side. A very simple meal that can be spiced up with it's offering of several sauces. They have barbecue sauce, some kind of white sauce, and hot sauce. All of them are great, especially the white sauce--be sure to pile that stuff on by the pint. The hot sauce is hot, and warrants the "caution" warning. That stuff will ruin your dinner if you pile it on and can't handle it... They give OBSCENE portions, which is a plus for me... I had trouble finishing my lamb plate. The bad thing about my meal was that after a while, the lamb gets very samey, and bordering on the disgusting side. But that's really just a side-effect of over-eating. These guys gave me a satisfying meal, but I gotta say their portions may have you despising halal by the time you empty your plate.
Yeah.
There are sooo many Halal carts in NY, but ths is the most legit cart of all. Being from LA, I'm used to taco trucks. I'm glad that NY has its own unique late-night post-drinking food. ?I wasn't in NY for very long, but I came here 3 nights in a row. The line is pretty long, but it progresses pretty quickly and definitely worth it! Order the chicken+lamb combination and use a lot of white sauce and some hot sauce. I mistakenly thought, "how hot could the hot sauce be? It can't be that hot" I was sweating bullets and I woke up with my stomach burning/hot. I have a good tolerance to spicy and I got owned.... So please people, learn from my mistake.
I got the combo platter from here before my volleyball game. ?The line was super long and service was fast. ?I ordered the combo platter which is basically just chicken and lamb with rice. ?Pita does come with your meal as well and of course the standard red and white sauces. ?I will agree that their sauces are very good, the portions are enormous but if you have their food without any of the sauce, it's terrible. ?Virtually unseasoned lamb and chicken topped with rice. ?So take my advice and make sure you grab extra white sauce and hot sauce from these guys or you're in for a plate full of boring.
best chicken and rice cart I ever been too! thank you jesus is walking distance from my job. I just cant tolerate the lines.. try and go off-peak times! dont know if there is such a thing but if you dont mind it, it will still be worth it! becareful of the hot sauce.. just a drop feels like a ball of fire!
"Chicken and rice". ?Sounds boring but somehow this food cart makes it the most exciting thing. evar. ?To this socal girl, chicken & rice is quintessential NY, maybe how the "ghetto dog" is quintessential LA. ?My first experience here was after a late night of partyiing in the city. ?And as everyone knows, drunk food is the best food. ?However, I decided to give it a second go sober and see if it was really as good as I remembered. ?And alas;.. it was! ? Get the combo plate w/ chicken and lamb, drench it in white sauce, add a splash of red sauce (spicccyyy!) and you're good to go! ?Tons of food and it'll only set you back $6. ?Ample "seating" everywhere, among weirdos and pigeons but it's ok, you're in NY!
Something about the white sauce here just lingers in your mind for a lonnngg time. WARNING! the hot sauce is VERY hot! Portions are also very large, share if your not dying from hunger. I personally like the lamb but order a combo if you want to try chicken. Enjoy!
First off if you know me then you know I have a thing about food carts. ?Till this day (even with all the yelp reviews) I am very skeptical about eating from food carts. ?In my short 21 years I have seen enough to make me want to stay away. Well let me tell you... the food at this cart is delicious. A few years ago when I was really hungry at like 3am and me and my bf were in the city, it seemed as if this was the only spot that was open for food. I just said what the fuck ill try it. ?Back then yelp wasn't even around like that to have let us known that this was the go-to spot! We had just "heard" this was a good food cart. So I had this chicken in an amazing gravy with this white sauce which he squirted all over, complete with rice, and salad. ?It was off the CHAIN. So when I used to eat meat I would ONLY eat lamb from here. My bf put me on. I never even liked lamb, but he told me I MUST try it. ?This halal cart seems to turn it into a master piece. ?I would have never expected lamb to be see good. On my last and most recent trip I realized I couldn't get anything as per my pescetarianism...think again!! They had falafel. I only falafel 2 other times on life and i hated it. It was dried out, flavorless, and tasted like shit. He told me to get it and I'd love it. ?Again I was skeptical. I wasn't going to buy something that I knee I didn't like in the past. ?The vendor was nice enough to let me try one for FREE. ?NOTHING is free is this world, not even a falafel ball. I just thought it was really nice of him to let me try one. Most new yorkers are very stingy and trying to make a quick buck! Of course I LOVED the falafel, and got a whole meal. That white sauce just does it. I'll be back for more!
Fantastic quick cheap tasty loved it recommended sauces great too.
lol these guys sometimes just dick around during slow times so the line gets longer and then people like Tom Tourist stand in line just for the standing in line. I met a guy yesterday while the line must have been 100 strong and he had no idea what he was standing in line for. But in all actuality, the feed they serve is delicious. Lamb, chicken, mix... can't go wrong with the platter. I think this place must be the place that serves the highest amount of actually good food for the lowest price: the delicious to dollar ratio is so high, almost too damn high. I could come here every day for lunch (well, not really, you just get so much food) if I lived in NY. Even when it is below freezing people will stand and wait over 45 mins for this food it is so good. If you're in a pinch though, there is another cart across the avenue that serves pretty much exactly the same food, and the line always pails in comparison (probably because there isn't much line space over there) and the food is just as good.
People kept telling me about chicken and rice and I brushed off their suggestions, thinking "What could possibly be so great about chicken and rice?" Boy was I sorry that I waited this long to try this Halal Cart. I'm also sorry that my first and only experience was an hour after already eating dinner (members of our party got hungry again after walking around the city)--so I only had a few bites :( But they were the most flavorful, moist and delicious bites of my life. Warning: DO NOT drown your bowl in hot sauce. It is REALLY REALLY spicy. I mean it.
Soooo, I dont get the hype. There are tons of halal carts all around the city (and I try to stop at every one near me) that also have chicken & rice and lamb & rice. I think the rice at this place is not as great as other carts. It tastes like the yellow rice mix you can buy from supermarkets and not authentic basmati rice with seasoning.
I would give this a zero star, but Yelp won't let me. ? Seriously? What is the hype about this place? The "chicken & rice" cart right out of my office on 55th and 6th is WAY better than these guys.
I got here at 7:45pm on a Sunday and waited for about 20 minutes. ?I didn't see a menu before I got to the front of the line, but 99% of people seem to order the lamb and chicken platter. Sauces are included on the side--white sauce tastes like ranch + yogurt, the red sauce is spicy as hell. ?I scooped up a bit of it with the tip of my fork, mixed that in with the entire platter, and I could still taste the spiciness. ?Come hungry or share because the portions are generous. The same guy scooping your meat onto the plate is also the same guy collecting and touching everyone's dirty cash =\ but for only $6 for a delicious plate of meat and rice, I'm willing to risk it.
Oh, 53rd and 6th Cart ... I can say nothing except that you are the best. ... And i want extra white sauce. That is all.
To many years of very early morning grub to give a bad review, and the price is awesome, even for a broke college student. Fun fact, this cart is on the very corner were the first cell phone call was made in 1973.
Who knew street cart food could be so good. ?Worth the wait. ?Don't leave NY without trying this cart out.
I can't really believe their food has so high ratings on yelp. I tried it today: ordered both their lamb platter and chicken platter. Both of them were not tasty by any stretch of imagination. Chicken platter was slightly better but still way below par. I would never recommend this place to anyone if great taste is what they are seeking.
yum yum. no new york trip is complete or authentic without a stop by this cart. as everyone else says, love the white sauce- its what makes their dish. they also give you a ton of food. what's not to love?
What more can I say that hasn't already been said? The hubs and I celebrated our one year wedding anniversary with champagne and chicken and rice as a midnight snack in our hotel, which perfectly topped off our anniversary. We're classy peoples like that. Our perfect concoction of toppings? Two white sauce and one hot sauce. Hot sauce brings it to its Greatness level, a MUST if you like spicy. Thank you for a wonderful last meal of our trip.
53rd & 6th is a diamond in the rough. To those who know, they know, but it's inconspicuous appearance makes it tough to distinguish from any other Halal cart in the city. Anywhere with a line is a good sign. It means the food is good, really good. 53rd & 6th ended up being one of the best meals I ate on my entire weekend in NYC. We decided to stop there on a Friday, during lunch hour. The line was very long, but they move quick. You better know what you want when it's time to order. This isn't one of those places where you can be indecisive. Most people seemed to be getting the combo plates, which looked delicious. I wasn't hungry enough to eat one, so I decided to go with a lamb gyro. I ordered it with everything, white and red sauces. Total ended up being about $4, a great bargain. The gyro was unbelievably good! The lamb was cooked to perfection and bursting with flavor. The pita bread was very fresh and soft. The star was the sauces though. The red sauce in particular, was amazing. It made the gyro very spicy, but in the best way possible. If I had more time and a bigger appetite, I could've easily eaten 2 or 3 of these gyros. They are that good! This place just goes to show you that the best food isn't limited to expensive, pretentious restaurants anymore. If you're looking for a great meal, think about hitting the streets. As long as I keep visiting NYC, I will continue to go back to 53rd & 6th.
Love love love love it. I always get their combo plate. ;) You get a little taste of each meat. I use to smother everything with the white sauce but lately I feel like their BBQ sauce might be better. Or even half and half with a bit more of the BBQ. Their hot sauce is too spicy for me. I hate that there's so little seating and no tables! If you're ever in the city come and try it outs! It's definitely worth a try. happy eatings~
mmmm, and eating it past midnight is even more winning just a warning...before you pour on the bbq sauce, better make sure its bbq and not hot sauce lols (this happened to a friend of mine). The hot sauce can kill people. But please be generous with the white sauce. also this the only halal place that gives you pita! how awesome is that?!?!?! If you want a piece of heaven for only $6 then come here
I love their lamb and rice. To me, the chicken can be a bit dry. There is an option for a combo of their meats. There is no additional charge for that. This way if it's your first time here and you want to try a bit of everything, you can. Their rice is different than the rice they offer at most chicken and rice carts around NY. It's much better. Pita bread and salad always come with your meal for free. The white sauce is Mmmmm MMMM good. The red sauce def. has a good kick to it. I love spicy foods, so this is right up my alley. One should try it out first before deciding to dump the whole red sauce onto their meal. One of these bad boys serve as 2, sometimes 3 meals for me. You will def. get your moneys worth here. If you don't want leftovers, share this with someone. Or if you have a big appetite, then 1 would suffice. The service is fast, which is good because the line is ALWAYS long. I guess if you go on an off hour, it'll probably be shorter. But for some reason I always get a craving for this place during late hours, and that's when others are rolling in too.
I feel funny having to stand in line for food at a cart, but boy oh boy, this cart here is soooooo good! i dont mind the line anymore =] i always get the combo, and drench it in their white sauce and lots and lots of hot sauce (yes, i like it super spicy)!! their sauces and rice seems to set them apart from other carts. i use to hate that you would get your food, then have no where to sit down to actually enjoy it, til my friend took me to his secret spot! if you walk down 53rd towards times square area, you will find a small alley w/tons of benches to sit on and enjoy your halal, it also has lighting so you can actually see what your're eating. You can thank me, next time you eat your halal in my spot =] the other great thing is, there is a magnolia's a block away, i usually go in there to pick up bread pudding to enjoy for dessert after my halal =]
Best halal cart ever. Don't use more than a few drops of the red.
Coming from an area populated with food trucks and twitter feeds to follow, it was nice to know that these guys were serving at one corner, every night. ?My friend and I had looked this cart up prior to our trip and decided that it needed to be on our list of go-to food places. We got there ?1/2 an hour before they opened and already there was a line. ?But don't worry, the line moves fast thanks to the wonderful Halal guys who take your order, your money and give you your plate within 2 minutes. ?After eating at sit down restaurants for dinner, it was kind of nice to go casual, order from a cart, sit quietly in front of a random building as I obliterate the plate of chicken and rice before me. ?We all ordered the chicken and rice plates and were pretty surprised about the portion size - huge! ? The food was delicious and filling, especially if you're hungry. ?Come to think about it, this would be great post-drinking food too. ?As hungry as I was, I just couldn't finish the entire plate (mind you I'm eating for two), but my husband gladly finished his full plate and the 1/3 I had left. ?My only tip, if you like spicy food, but don't want to burn off your taste buds - take it easy on the red sauce that they offer on the side of the cart (I should've listened to the nice homeless man who gave me the tip right before I ordered). ? Otherwise, splurge on the white sauce. ?Whatever it is, it's pretty good.
I've heard many things about this legendary halal cart, and had intentions of going the last time I visited NYC. ?However, sadly that did not happen. ?I did not want to make the same mistake twice, so I came here with some great friends on my last night in NYC. ? Food (9.0/10) = Chicken, Lamb, and Rice for $6.00...OOOOOOOHHHHHHH YEAAAAAAAAAAA! ("Macho Man" Randy Savage). I was fortunate that the line was not long when I came here. ?But after tasting the deliciousness of this "street meat," I would line up for this stuff even if the line started at the end of the block. ?Man... I don't even know how to describe the food. ?The chicken and lamb were seasoned well and surprisingly not dry. ?They add plenty of cheese too. ?Meat and cheese baby...oh yea! ?I added the white sauce and the red sauce. ?I don't remember what they were, but it made the food so much better. ?Note: I wasn't drunk. Ambiance (?/10) = it's a food cart. ?I witnessed a turf battle between two homeless men though, haha. ?The dominant beggar spent most of his time near the food, asking for the change people received after they paid. ?Lurking in the back of the line that night was another man collecting change. ?It was entertaining to see the dominant beggar go after the lurker, and how some of the regulars in line encouraged him to protect his income, haha. Service (7.5/10) = Service was fast. ?These guys really know how to keep the line moving. Overall Opinion = I don't know why you just read my review. ?This is the 1758th review, and they've average 4.5 Yelp stars. ?What more do you need to know to convince you to visit this epic joint on 53rd and 6th? ? ?Go get your chicken and rice, and maybe a free show - "The 53rd and 6th Halal Cart beggar vs. the Lurker."
Chicken and rice: SO GOOD AND SO CHEAP!!! A must try. And I was sober when eating it too.
What can I say that hasn't already been said? ?This food is like crack... you'll be hooked (seriously, the FDA should analyze this food for addictive elements because just the thought of it has me salivating!). A mixed bowl (chicken and lamb) with a lot of white sauce and a splash of red sauce is what I get. ?The food is cheap and filling and you probably should share it with someone because its a lot. I really don't know anyone who doesn't like this food. ?I'm not saying you will love it too - its just that when so many people give it excellent ratings you definitely gotta try it out.
Got the mixed plate, chicken and lamb. The hot sauce is indeed HOOOOT. It was soooo good and I thought it was slightly reminiscent of Taco Bell, back in the day when I was in the third grade. A very distinct and coma-inducing flavor. I don't know. Line moves pretty fast.
This place is ridiculously amazing. These guys absolutely know what they are doing. Definitely the most legit cart in NYC...and the wait is definitely worth it. We were walking towards our hotel near Rockefeller and noticed this huge line and asked these guys why they were waiting. They said it was the best halal food and great late night. Sounds like a challenge, so of course--I accepted. While in line, I started chatting up the people in front me. These guys were partying in NJ and one had a craving for the lamb + chicken combo, so they drove all the way into the city for this. And they were absolutely right, the combo is excellent. And the white yogurt sauce on top is just heavenly.
a must-visit spot in NYC. multiple, different groups of friends recommended this as THE spot to go if you want cart-food. checked it out tonight for dinner, it was the bomb!!!!!!! hot sauce was very very hot, which i'm into, and it was good, but i would watch out with how much you put on your food! and i'm into really hot stuff.
$6 meal in New York? And it is cold here most of the time? Ordered the combination (chicken/lamb) version. White sauce is money here, this is where they differentiate themselves from everyone else. ?I tried matching the amount of red sauce to the white...let's just say a couple tears were shed. ?Came here again the next night and it was raining. ?Ordered just the lamb this time and man I got to say, lamb greater than chicken. ?And the rain made it even better, HOT SAUCE AND LAMB all day if I could.
"I only did it for the check-in" There you have it folks, my review of the 53rd st Halal cart is completely shameful. I did it all for the check-in. However, even though i visited purely for the klout, i did learn a few interesting bits of info in those 7 minutes while my boyfriend waiting for food. First, there is a cart on either side of the street. Both are the same company they just expanded because of how darn good they are. People seem to think that one of those carts is a fake or they're rivals. Neither myth is true but it does speak to why on one side of the street the line is longer than the other. These bad boy halal cart owners have some pretty sweet people psychology figured out. Regardless of the line length, the food is extremely popular and packed with people munching on their food from the cart. The workers/owners take orders swiftly and keep their customers happy hence the success. So if you're in the area, giving these famous guys a try for a cheap lunch or dinner is well worth it. Even if you only do it for the check-in.
CHICKEN, LAMB, AND RICE. Sounds simple but its AMAZING. 6$ for all the rice, meat you want to eat with a small side of greens. The yogurt sauce and fiery fiery hot red sauce makes the dish even better (as if that was even possible). Seriously, the portion makes a Chipotle burrito bol over-priced. Fast service, delicious meat, low cost. Doesn't get much better than that. Be sure to use some of the white yogurt sauce with the chicken..it dries out a bit faster than the juicy lamb.
Much shorter line this time, although my palpable excitement at being able to eat lamb-rice made the queue seem like the 4 hours I once waited as a younger man for the Batman Ride when it first came out at Six Flags Magic Mountain. ?Bad analogy, I know... I think I could eat this everyday... ?it's just a perfect blend of savory, spicy, and oily... ?with equal parts groin-grabbingly good ground lamb with heavily spiced rice, and the white and red sauce really push it over the edge. ?No fist bump from the worker this time I'm afraid, as I remember the trials and tribulations I had from the last time I slathered my plate with "the red". ? Strangely enough, leftovers were even tastier the next morning in my hotel room. ?God, this food is so good.
I can't believe it was so cheap! Seriously it was only $6 for a huge plate of food. I ordered the rice with half lamb and half chicken. It came with some white sauce and hot sauce. I was unable to finish it in one sitting so I had a small snack between dinner and lunch. I also love that it was conveniently on the streets of New York City. It was perfect after walking all over the city. It was quite easy to find no matter where you are in New York City.
I get the mixed platter, chicken and rice w white cause and a splash of hot sauce. Meal goes down well. Nice plate to get every once in a while. Beware of hot sauce, very hot.
overrated and not that good. i think people talk of this place like it's the best thing ever, it was just ehh and i wouldn't eat it again. stick with the gourmet food trucks. it was cheap though, but didn't hit the hangover spot that it was looking to fill.
For all the confused masses, let's get location confusion out of the way. These guys have the yellow shirts AND yellow plastic bags that say Halal Guys. By day, they are on the SE corner, while an imitator piggybacking on the fame is on the SW corner. At 7PM, the Halal Guys take over the SW corner (their main location) in addition to the SE. Last time I went, they'd taken over the block and had another couple locations down the street. At night, lines are usually ridiculous at the main SW location, since most are not aware of the other ones. As for the food, before I had tried other quality street meat/vendors, I'd believed this to be the best thing ever since the invention of the Slinky. Nowadays, I think they're overrated. Don't get me wrong, it's still good, but there are better halal street vendor style foods in the city. The chicken and rice is pretty good, as the chicken is lightly spiced and all white meat, though a little on the dry side. The lamb is ground meat (but still unidentifiable), very salty and spiced, in a delicious way, but also extremely greasy, though worth the atherosclerosis. All platters come with sliced, warmed pita bread, and yellow rice, which is also greasy. The white sauce is delicious, though very thick and tends to have hints of being made from ranch dressing, like every other generic halal cart. When getting it to go, I use about 2 containers' worth on the platter. WARNING: although very delicious, and unlike the liquidish, generic red sauce from other vendors, the red sauce here is not for the faint of heart. It is HOT. The only comparison is the equally mouth-burning sauce from Mamoun's Falafel (I'm tempted to say it's the same). Seriously, most people I know only use a few drops, and I'm dying after I put 2 small containers on my platter. Totally worth it. You do get A LOT of food for your $6. Now that I'm over my college/early grad school chubby days, I make two meals out of these giant platters. Service is gruff, and half the time they'll ignore requests for any modification or an additional sauce if you get it to go. I hate coming here at night because of lines, and also having to deal with all the drunk, douchey club-goers, and what I like to affectionately call "brown guidos." Think Jersey Shore but with Indian people. If you want cheap, greasy, pretty good halal street vendor food, Halal Guys gets you a lot of ?greasy bang for your buck, but there's better options in the city.
So ALL my friends talk about this place. ?I don't know if it was just overhyped to me or what, but I didn't think it was the best thing on earth. ?It's more of a 4.5 star to me but I'm rounding up because I feel obligated to. ?It's cheap ($6) for a huge plate, and what you get is a pie dish sized plate of very well seasoned rice and very well seasoned lamb (or chicken). ?The white sauce is amazing. ?It's some seasoned yogurt based sauce. ?The red sauce is really good too, but not as hot as most people are saying so I didn't put enough on :( ?(imo you need a 2:1 ratio of white sauce to red sauce). Again, it's very good and I'll try it again, but even though my rating is a 5 star, I still feel it's a bit overhyped. ?Coming in and knowing it's not the best thing since sliced bread will help you appreciate it more. yelp.com/biz_photos/xEnN?
Good food but even better when drunk and late at night. ?I like to get half lamb and half chicken. ?Make sure to drench it in the white sauce! ?The red sauce is good but SUPER hot so beware and try it first with a few drops. ?4 stars because the people were sort of rude as they tried to hustle as many people through as possible.
We hit this spot on a Saturday night. After a few wrong turns (my direction is crap), we located this cart upon recommendation from a friend. I had carefully read the article to ensure that this was THE cart and it was. The bright yellow bag (plus, how it was at the intersection, duh) indicated that we needed to order whatever they were selling. The 'what' they sold was chicken and rice...though it also came with lamb, pita, some lettuce, and two sauces. There was just one person ahead of us, we were lucky. We opted for additional pita and rushed back home to eat while the food was still hot. The damage? Like $15. Cheapest meal we had in NYC. The food was pretty dang good. The white sauce was ranchy/yogurty/creamy/cool and red sauce was spicy-omg-hot. Its diminutive size belied the huge fireball that erupted when I dumped the whole thing (like a couple teaspoons) into my food. It was good but man, it was spicy. I took my hub's red sauce and did it all over again too. If I had another day in NYC, I'd gladly eat this again and taken one home with me! Now, where can I get this in Seattle??
OMFG FINALLY I have been waiting for you for months now halal cart! This perfectly ended my night and my trip to NYC. ?I made it just right before the line rush, which I was happy since it was freeeezing at 1:30am. $6 for a lamb and chicken combo over rice and veggies and pita bread. That's a STEAL in Manhattan and for such ginormous portions!!!!! ?I tried and tried to finish it all so that it won't be a waste since I am from out of town, but barely made it! My combo was smothered with white sauce from corner to corner. ?As I ate my plate, I wanted more and thank god, they included another white sauce container in my to go bag :) ! ?I ate some of the hot sauce but boy! few drops of it was super spicy already! Go to the original cart!!!! It's not hard to miss with that line compared to the other side of the street's cart! Amazing, how amongst the vast selections of food in NYC, that this halal cart can purely satisfy your appetite for such a low price! ?The simple things in life may be better than anything else :)
i dunno what to say, but i've gotten so many people addicted to this stuff its like they're a drug addict trying to get more. the lamb and chicken over rice are both equally as good. ?the taste is very similar once doused in that amazing yogurt sauce and SUPER fiery hot sauce. i believe the prices are 8 dollars each, and as a new comer you might think that was a little bit pricey. ?it actually isn't with the amount of food you actually receive. to note...LOAD up everything with that yogurt sauce. ?if you can take spicy food...i mean SPICY, take it easy with that hot sauce. ?it is literally fire in your mouth if you take too large of a bite with sauce on top. arrive early or be prepared to wait. ?although the line can seem long after midnight, it moves fairly fast. ?after about 8-10pm they open their second cart next to the first cart so they easily can power through long lines with no issues. remember, don't be fooled by fakes or wannabe's 53rdand6th.com these are the halal guys, and know what they're doing.
I think this cart is overhyped or maybe i just came on an off night. I just didn't see anything special about the chicken and rice. Maybe I missed something? Or maybe my friend messed up my plate when asking for extra hot sauce and white sauce. That hot sauce was super spicy, and I was almost on the verge of tearing. The guy was super nice. I think I'm willing to give this guy another try when I make my annual trip out to NYC, and this time I'm going to eat it as is with nothing extra. $6 and it can be made into 2 meals for sure.
Do I have to tell you how good this place is???!!?!? ?The 5 stars should say it all!!! ? I'm salivating just thinking about it!!!! ?Chicken & lamb platter extra hot sauce& white sauce ..... GET IN MY BELLAY!!!!!!!!
shit man. you don't need me to tell you how good or awesome this place is. if you don't like this spot, you GO TO HELL! ?NOW!! but seriously this idefinitely the best street meat joint. and DON'T YOU DARE ASK FOR EXTRA SAUCE ON THE SIDE. ?The dude ALREADY KNOWS you want some extra to take home so you can put it on top of whatever it is you will be cooking next 3 days. ?i only say this cause he really got mad at me last time i asked for extras, but i still love that guy. god... i'm hungry just thinking about this place.... goodbye
Ok...this was a nice suprise during our trip to NYC. Great food, great sauces (go easy on the spicy sauce until you determine if you can handle it or not) and the price is outstanding for the protion you get.
This place is great for some cheap eats! Totally yummy with the white sauce...you must get the white sauce!! Makes great late-night food and portioned big enough for next-day leftovers :) Will be here again next time I'm in NYC!!
In Jersey we call it Platters. And Platters is BOMB! Hungry? Do it! Go! Bring your friends! The white sauce is amazing! You'll go again... its that good :)
WOW!!! This has got to be the best deal/best food New York offered during our stay there. The line was pretty long, but they move pretty fast, but it was all worth the wait. $6 for chicken and rice and huge portions and it was amazingly delicious! Eating cart foods may have some disadvantage, but its so delicious that its okay!!!!! You have got to try this one when you are in NYC. These carts are everywhere, but this location is the best!
Yeah, it's good. But I've had better and at a far lesser price. This is waaayyy more expensive than any other halal cart I've been to. My usual spot is the NW corner of 52nd & 6th but I decided to give these guys a shot. Won't be coming back. The guy was stingy with the sauce (both white and hot) even after I asked for more. Worst part about all of it - total was $15 for a lamb n rice, chicken n rice and 2 bottles of water. Are you kidding?? I'll be heading back to my usual spot on 52nd from now on where the prices are as they should be - $5 for a plate. p.s. this line was hella long! guy was too busy chattin up the tourists in front of us (another downer, too many tourists)! girl, i'm just tryin to get my lamb n rice on and get the hell out. yaah mean?
Don't be fooled by the fake chicken & rice carts nearby pretending to be this one! ?There's been a wait here every time I've come, whether it's at 8 PM or 3:30 AM b/c it's that good. ?The line goes by pretty quickly though b/c of their speedy service, which is good unless you're waiting in the freezing NY cold. ?The portions are pretty big...I've never finished a whole plate alone, which definitely says something! ? Beware of using too much hot sauce...it'll really kill your taste buds and pain you for the next few days.
After a year and a half and many many days of craving, I was recently able to repeat the chicken and rice experience. So worth it; a must-have while in NYC. I'm pretty sure they put some kind of crack in the white sauce (or maybe it's the hot sauce!) because I haven't eaten at another halal cart that compares. While the line has been pretty ridiculous every time I've gone, it's super fun watching these guys work. They've got this system completely optimized- maximum efficiency at it's finest.
this is a perfect late night food! ?when i first tried it, i didn't think that i was that good, but after few days, it made me want to try again!
New York Perfection? Manhattan Mind-blowing Meal? Late night UN-guilty pleasure? If you hear people saying this food cart is a guilty pleasure, they're talking madness. ?This Halal Cart is the business in NYC. ?The last time I came here was 6 years ago when I saw the long lines every night from my Hilton hotel window, and it is still crowded with people to this day. ? I usually get the Chicken but it seems to be that all of their meals are a pleasure for anyone. ?The mayo?/white sauce is a great addition to the meal, but if you are a spicy lover go ahead and add their spicy sauce as well--Beware, it is a lot spicier than you think. ? It also seems to be in a nicer and safer area of town so you'll see a bunch of people bumming it on the street, and eating their meals sitting on the cement. ?Absolutely nothing wrong with that.
Just like the 1500 reviewers before me... This stand is awesome Chicken is amazingly seasoned and tons of food for only $6! Got there at 7:30pm... must have been the perfect time because there was no line which I gather is a rarity.
You must try it if you are ever in New York. for $6, my friend and i shared a combo which included seasoned rice, chicken, lamb, some salad, and pita bread + unlimited white and red sauce. the sauces MAKE the dish, i was considering taking 10 packs of the red sauce on the plane with me to Canada.....where can I buy this stuff!?!!??? TRY IT FOR YOURSELF. I did, and I'm definitely going for seconds next time I'm in the city.
Who would've thought that a food cart has its own website to advertise??!! Well, this sure has one and I'm glad that it does 'coz otherwise it would've taken me awhile to find this food cart. For those of you that are like me who ten to forget where things are, just find Hilton Hotel in Midtown and look for a long line of people in front of a food cart. I ate the lamb over rice dish, and it was not only delicious, but the portion was more than enough for me to eat over 3 meals! Pros: easy to locate, food is tasty (just don't put too much of the chili sauce 'coz it's seriously spicy!!!), quick service. Cons: hhhmm.. perhaps the lack of choices, it's only open after 7pm so not an option for lunch. Will definitely go back there again to try the chicken! :)
Was in NY for 4 days and had this 3 nights. There is always a line even when the cart has not arrived yet. Be ready to wait but you won't regret it. I normally don't like Lamb but it was very flavorful! You can't go wrong with anything you order. Pita bread, white sauce, hot sauce AMAZING! I love my hot sauces but this hot sauce had to be a 9/10 in spicyness! be aware! What better way to end a night after watching the Yankees win?!
Look for the yellow bags! I got combination of lamb and chicken it was good. portions are huge for $6 try a little nyc favorite! lamb was good, and I don't really eat lamb it tasted like ground beef. Ask for sauce on the side and be warned lines are long during lunch.
I lost count of how many times I've been to this corner which is not something I can say that I'm proud of. It's gonna be amazing the first couple times you have it. But like anything, it gets tiring after having it dozens of times. DO NOT load up on the hot sauce. I HIGHLY suggest that you try it first, before you drench it all over the platter or you'd be one very unhappy camper. Here are some 53rd and 6th experiences that you may VERY POSSIBLY encounter. 1) You wake up the next morning with a platter next to your bed and scarf down whatever's left. 2) You puke as you're eating it and you're like fuck it. I'm gonna eat some more. 3) You finish one platter by the fountain, and you're like shit I'm still hungry. So you buy another one and realize you can't finish it. You toss it in your fridge and forget about it. A week later you smell something rancid in your apt. 4) You fall in love with the white sauce. So you end up stealing an entire bottle to bring home. And while you're at it, you're like, I might as well take the damn hot sauce too.
After seeing over 1800 reviews of this Halal Cart, I just had to try it out! Its a great grub spot after a day at the MOMA and then chowing down around the corner for some tasty lamb & rice combo. Its a no frills food cart where after viewing some modern art exhibits for some culture, you get a bit of good street grub all in one! Its cheap, tasty, and even plenty enough to share for two. The boyfriend was definitely enjoying the delicious meaty pile of lamb and white sauce. And considering the street fair at the time, people still lined up for this food cart instead. Its simple and straight to the point! Awesome street food!!
Wow...food cart excellence. ?These guys have their formula down pat. ?I cannot believe I stood in line for 20 minutes at 3pm on a Sunday to have food from a food cart. ?But in the end, it was well worth the wait because I think it is just part of the experience. ?The combo was what I ordered and the chicken and lamb gyro bits are just perfectly done. ?Intensely seasoned, and just the right balance of moisture and crisp bits. ?The basmati rice is better than most rice sides you get at regular restaurants. And this white sauce, what is it? ?It's like some liquid crack. ?It's thick and garlicky and just oh so good. ?I went for some red sauce, and it's the real deal in hot sauce. ?No pseudo-hot sauce, the red sauce is fiery. ?Don't be a hero, when he squirts a bit on there, it's probably hot enough for most mortals. ?Asking for more is only if you have a teflon stomach or you have a death wish. The guys here are all business, but I respect that.
Get the chicken and lamb combo with lots and lots of white sauce (SO GOOD) and a few squirts of red sauce (it's really spicy, yo). Don't let the long line scare you off - it goes by pretty quickly! If there isn't any seating available, walk a few blocks down. There are a bunch of places to sit in that area, if you're willing to look around.
BEST 6 DOLLARS I EVER SPENT. I got the combination plate and omg.....every single bite i took just made me want to eat even more!!! the price is SUPER CHEAP but the HUGE amount of food you get! the service is SUPER fast. so if you see a long line don't get discouraged! it goes really quickly! these guys know what they're doing and they do it quick!
The one and only Chicken Lamb Rice. You cannot get it better anywhere else. A requirement for every NYC visit.
This is the best halal that i've had so far. It's amazing & ?despite the 1 1/2 hr wait or so, it's well worth it (just try to go with someone so you can talk instead of boring yourself to death). I had first went to this cart with my bunch of best friends last winter. We waited on line for practically 2 hrs in freezing temperature. That whole experience is a story on it's own but I will spare you all. The moral of the story though is to NOT go overboard on the hot sauce. That was one of the greatest mistakes of my life - i didn't read the sign beware, and drowned mine in it. I had lost my sense of taste for a good week and after every bite of the halal, I had drink a gallon of water pretty much. All in all, awesome halal cart and I really like the combo. Just remember to take it easy on the hot sauce. Doesn't matter if you eat jalape?os like pieces of candy, this one really packs a punch.
Super yummy! I was walking around looking for a place to eat, and found a GIANT line of people in front of this cart. So I decided to have a look. There were people everywhere, and looking at the food made me start to salivate. So I waited in line. It must've been 30 minutes, but luckily I had eaten half a hot dog earlier in the day :) I got the lamb/chicken combo platter and shared with my boyfriend. SO MUCH FOOD! You get a lot of meat, rice, pita bread, and veggies. Of course, the white sauce is super yummy. And beware of the spicy red hot sauce. I almost started crying since I unknowingly sprinkled it all over my food. Overall, the meat was tender and everything was paired very well together. However, I have to say that the rice was not as flavorful as I wished it was--it was a little bit bland, but I guess the flavors of all the other items more than made up for that. I will definitely be back here next time I'm in the city!
The original chicken and rice? Yes. The best? Not even close. Marinate your chicken!! It's so bland. Tastes like they just bought the chicken from the grocery store round the corner and threw it right onto the grill. CHICKEN HAS NO TASTE. Also, get some veggies involved! I liked when they used to have peppers and onions. Now its an over-hyped waste of time. There is better out there.
This is the cheapest and best place I ate while in NYC. ?You have to eat here if you visit... especially from Hawaii since there is nothing like it here... the closest thing we have is Greek restaurants. ?I had the combination rice plate and also the lamb and rice... SO good. ?I want more! ?Someone needs to bring this cart to Hawaii ASAP
Food was nothing short of amazing. Will last any normal sized person for 2 servings. The hot sauce - IS VERY HOT! You have been warned lol
I have to say this was my first NYC "food truck" experiment. I always thought it was nifty in LA or San Fran when you had to track them down on Twitter (go ahead New York, it is fun), however this one just materialized out of the blue. I was out strolling the new UniQlo flagship store and MOMA when my friend an I passed by this cart with about a 30 minute line on both sides of the street. ?The first one we passed I said no way, but the second one hooked me, because a) I had never seen such a line (social psychology at work) and b) it just smelled so good! We stood in line for some time and struck up a conversation with some businessman in front of us who told us how this food cart paid something like 300 a month taxes and brought in over 4 million a year. He even proclaimed it been written up in Forbes (I did a little research and did not run across this article but who knows). What an awesome experience. The Tzatsiki sauce was amazing and the hot sauce very hot but also very good. I ate every single bit of this awesome six dollar chicken and rice delicacy. I want more please! ;)
53rd and 6th HALAL...why don't you come to LA LA land? We could definitely use some DELICIOUS chicken and rice here! I've waited for this place in the rain, in the wee hours of the night and it was freezing out. They seriously put crack in it because I HAVE to come here every time I'm in the big apple. I even get super depressed when my ?friends post pictures of it on FB. It makes me sad that they're so far away from me. Believe the hype and come here. You won't regret it. This is definitely one of the things you have to eat in your lifetime. Miss you 53rd and 6th! I hope you think about me as much as I think about you! Kisses!
After reading the reviews I'm kind of sad I ate the food from the cart sober but oh, well, the food was still great. For $6 I had lamb and rice, which also came with a few small slices of pita bread and a salad. A delightful surprise in the salad are the tomato slices. I've never gotten that in food I've gotten from other carts before so this place would get six stars from me if it were possible. Their location is also great because it's right near the MoMA, which you can get in for free if you're a CUNY student, and the cart is also right near a huge plank of marble you can sit on while you eat your meal. I went on a Sunday afternoon in the beginning of the month so if you're afraid of encountering long lines Sunday afternoons might be a good time to go. Another thing I want to add is that the Halal guys all wear yellow shirts with the location of the cart on them so patrons don't get confused and accidentally get food from one of the knockoff carts. So get yourself to 53rd and 6th and look for the Halal guys with yellow shirts so you can experience the food for yourself.
Don't get the hype??
Every time I eat here, I end up telling myself "never again" as I waddle away shamefully with my face covered in white filth and sweating profusely because I've decided to put entirely too much red sauce again. Then I come back for more.
Yuuuuummy! The combo platter is D-liscious! Especially for $6. I had some for dinner and took the rest to work the next day for lunch.....it was just as good! Apply the hot sauce with caution! Enjoy!
I have been here a couple of times but finally confirmed my suspicions. The already tasty dish DOES get better the more buzzed you are.
Halal~ Oh how we love thee. ?Every blue moon, we make a trip out to NYC and we always make a list of places to eat. ?On that list each time, without fail, is the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. ?Mind you, I usually steer clear of street food like the plague. ?The uncertainty of the cleanliness of it all makes me extremely nervous. ?I still refuse to eat hotdogs on the street. ?But the first time I tried the Halal Cart, I was in street food heaven. ?Chicken and rice with extra white sauce and extra hot sauce. ?So grubby, so guiltily pleasurable, so good. ?In fact, our friends formed a club in which whenever one of us goes to NYC that person must bring some back for the rest of us.
It's totally overhyped and the lines are ridiculous AND the guys are serving the exact same food at like three other carts in the area, but who gives a damn? The lamb is great, the white sauce is especially great, and the chicken is by far the best I've had on the street in NYC. You can get the same food at any of the carts that say "the Halal guys, we are different" on the workers' shirts. All are delicious. Watch out though, a lot of imitators in the 56th and 6th area have sprung up, some even use deceptively similar shirts/logos.
Out of all the street food carts roaming on the streets of Manhattan, this was the only cart that made my mouth water as I walked by. The lines for this specific Halal cart is ridiculous! People are literally squirming around 53rd and 6th, and waiting in the cold to get a taste! I personally think the food smells better than it tastes. I got the chicken plate, which comes with lettuce, rice, and pita bread. People have warned me about choosing between their red and white sauce (the ingredients are unknown to man). The smell of the red sauce burned my nose, but I was too curious not to try it. It's no joke. The red sauce will have your forehead dripping SWEAT in 20-degree weather. Just go with the white sauce -- it tastes better with the plate anyway. The halal cart reminds me of an upscale Taco Bell. The meat is definitely tastier and better cooked (what's in Taco Bell meat, anyway?), but the rice and iceberg lettuce was basic. The pita bread was ok, but if you dip anything into that white sauce it'll instantly taste better. I think what really saves these carts are their special sauces. You can't get that sort of stuff at your local Taco Bell.
say hello to the millionth review!!!!!! anyway, there're already plenty of raves/ comments/descriptions/compliments? for the taste/price/the wait and everything else about the sauces. all i want to say is in order to beat (miss is probably the better word) the crowd, just come here extremely late in the night (2-3 am), ?when it is bitter cold (like this weekend where the temperature will feel like 0), or during the snow (if they're open). in other words, when you don't feel like going out or its sleepy time, that means others don't as well, hence the short line. we always only waited for 10 mins or less to get our food. yummy, tasty, greasy and most important of all... satisfied!!!! ...*burp...* :))
Street food at its best ***** AHhhhhh, I dont even need to begin to describe how great these guys are. I mean read all the reviews! I hate waiting in line for anything, as an impatient new yorker, but not for this, not for a delicious meal that I only paid $6 bucks for. The hell with tables, silver ware, table cloths and service, you dont need that when food taste this damn good. Order extra white sauce, and if you dare to have them pour the red sauce, this is spiciness to the max.
Best thing ever. NOW I probably can't say anything new that hasn't already been said EXCEPT... Halal guys wear YELLOW SWEATSHIRTS that say HALAL GUYS. IF you go after 7pm there will be two halal guy carts. SAME THING... Yes, One line will be longer because it is the "original" BUT its the same exact food. They even cook it and walk it over. BEWARE THOUGH.. before 7pm there is an imitator. They wear yellow hooded sweatshirts too with even the same design logo but they're called "best halal" or something with a mama mia umbrella. Go to the real halal guys!! If you have any questions.. ASK!
The. Best. Effing. Halal. Cart. In. New. York. Cheap and delicious! Simply thinking about 53rd and 6th makes me and my wallet drool. ?Like seriously, 6 bucks for a ?meal in Manhattan that's fit for a king?! Everything they cook is fresh, hot, and tasty. I had the chicken platter with the insanely good red sauce. Companions had the lamb and beef platters with lotta white sauce and red. Didn't really like the white sauce. ? I'm no meat junkie, but they really do succeed in making dead carcasses extremely aromatic. I can't wait until my next venture into the Big Apple.
This is the ultimate hangover food in NYC (although i didn't have this after a night of crazy drinking). I had the Lamb plate with rice and salad. The Lamb had a lot of flavor and was made even better by the white sauce. Be careful when spreading the hot sauce bec it will sneak up on you. Best to get the to-go condiments instead of dousing all that hot sauce right on your plate. I couldn't finish the plate because there was a lot of food. While the lamb was really flavorful, it got overwhelming at the end which is part of the reason why I couldn't finish. Also, this dish is very greasy so definitely don't expect a light and healthy fare. Instead of lamb, you can also get chicken, or a "Mix" of the chicken and lamb. Last thing, make sure you go to the right Halal Cart. Watch out for the yellow shirt and the logo. There's another cart across the street that also gets a long line so you can get mixed up.
BEST STREET FOOD EVER! Totally unassuming from the looks of it, this cart has scrumptious food for a great price. I'm a fan of street food in general, but this place blows everything else out of the water. With a very limited menu, these guys have landed a goldmine! I had the ultimate platter, which came with chicken, falafel, rice, pita, hot sauce, and the amazing white sauce! In the winter months, you either have to eat your food quickly so it won't get cold or find somewhere indoors to enjoy it while you eat. This cart is another permanent spot on my NY list! Love it!
Over promise, under-deliver? ?Many people may disagree with my review but it's ok, it's Yelp. ?From what I heard this was "THE spot" to be. ?Friends dragged me here and we waited in line for about 10 minutes before we could place the order. ?I was expecting an orgasmic food experience! Ok, the food wasn't bad and I would even say it's very good. ?Most halal cart places either overcook the lamb or put too much salt. ? The way they serve their lamb is different from other people. ?They seem to finely chop the meat so not only is it easier to eat, i think that actually brings out the flavor more too. Parking is hard to come by in that area unless you happen to be going there around 10pm or later. ?They're situated on the corner right by an outdoor fountain and other seating areas. ?(Ingenius location planning or just dumb luck?). ?Good luck finding a seat though. ?What's pretty awesome is everyone there seems to just be genuinely having a good time and you even see strangers striking up conversations! ? Another awesome feature the Halal Guys have is on the side of the court, you have your self-serve "white sauce" and "hot sauce". ?Go ahead, go nuts! Gave it 3 stars only because i didn't buy into the hype. ?I'll come again if my friends would drive me again but i wouldn't go out of my way. ?Then again, I don't really like halal food and if it's another halal guy, i'd give them a 1. ?(And i really hate to give 1's).
I found that the chicken and lamb here are extremely overrated. ?The meat was bland and not as flavorful as other places. ?I did not go for the white sauce (I rarely do, since I think it's gross) however I always got the red sauce. Is it because of the hype that it got such high rating? ?Is it because I refused to eat that white fluid? ?Is it because of the beer at 3am? There are bunches of other better options just about anywhere else in Manhattan. ?In fact, I feel that this place was one of the worst street meat experiences I've had. I would never know the appeal of this place...I bumped a star up due to the portion. ?It was humongous, though I dumped more than half of it away.
If I could pack them into my suit case and bring them back to California with me. . .I'd do it in a heart beat! ?53rd and 6th is a must every time I'm in New York! ?The last time I was there I stood and waited in line in the pouring rain with my suitcase before heading to the airport and it was worth it. The spicy sauce is out of this world so add with caution. I LOVE these guys! The food is delish and the price is unbeatable! Halal Guys PLEASE come to San Francisco!
The 53rd and 6th Halal Cart is a lived up to all the hype. Prior to leaving for my New York trip everyone I spoke to made sure I knew about this place. Now I understand what they are talking about. The combination chicken and lamb plate is a great deal for about $6. You get chicken and lamb on top of rice, a small side salad, and some pita bread. It all tastes wonderful, especially when you add the white sauce. BEWARE of the red sauce as it is very spicy. You might want to try just a few drops. The only down side is that this cart has very weird hours. It is open from late night to early morning. I believe they are targeting the clubbing/drinking crowd. This would be excellent eats to soak up all that alcohol. Expect to wait in line on major party nights (Fri/Sat). We went on a Monday and it was not too bad. The 53rd and 6th Halal cart is offers great food at extremely affordable prices. You should definitely try it when visiting New York. YUM!
One of my favorite destinations in NYC. The food is simple and cheap and good. I get the half and half and smother it with the white and red sauces. Very spicy as I shovel i down on a cold night.
This place is obviously amazing (look at the reviews), but what I didn't realize was that they have two carts one directly across the street from the other..I felt like an idiot for standing in the longer line. I ordered the combo plate and it was absolutely delicious. I only wish the guy didn't drench my plate in the creamy white sauce, I love cream sauce but this one is super rich so a little bit is enough.
Terrible. The "lamb" was dry and that white sauce? Mayo?!?! Please. ?I will stick with the Egyptian Guys cart on 58th and 9th avenue. At least they give you chunks of lamb and use a YOGURT sauce.
Yum!! I love the halal guys and I love white sauce and I love late night unhealthy eating. The rice is fluffy and delicious, the meat is full of spices and flavor, and the hot sauce will leave your tongue numb if you're not careful. I think out-of-towners and snobby byotches scoff at chicken & rice and the people who rave about it, but they need to get off their high horses. It's the perfect after-party meal and the price is right.
As you walk about NYC there are food stands all over the place - one thing that you'll notice about this one - which is right outside of the NY Hilton, is that there is ALWAYS a line! That's a clue that it's that good!
After hearing all these great reviews about this cart, i decided to try it. I should have tried other halal carts so i can compare all of them and see if this is indeed the best one. The chicken over rice was good and especially tasty when you add the white sauce and a FEW drops of the hot sauce. do NOT pour that hot sauce over your rice - it is freaking spicy! More than one drop in a spoonful can get you burning. I didn't think this was THAT great. maybe i was not drunk that's why. haha but nonetheless it's definitely a place that you should try at least ONCE.
The best $5 you can spend on lunch in midtown.
hhahahahahahahahaha. yum
So I don't know which is the "original" cart and which is the 2nd one.. on diagonal corners. I get confused.. but the Halal cart guys insist "it's the same!!" - sure, buddy. What's to say that hasn't been said? I get the sh!ts every time I eat this, because I'm lactose intolerant and usually don't do too well with street food. YET! I still go here fairly regularly.. (no pun intended). It's *that* good. And...bring on the white sauce and the spiciest red sauce in the city. PLUS BBQ sauce. Aw yeahhh. My secret sauce weapons...
This place is sooo yummy and cheap!! I tried to recreate the food here at home but I cannot get the white sauce right! what is the secret ingredient?? Beware of the spicy sauce...it's very very spicy. also, the more white sauce you use, the better it tastes...i got it one time with less white sauce and it didn't taste as good.
This is probably the best $6 you can spend in NYC. I want to put crack sauce and just about everything...do yourself a favor and get the combo NOW. Another thing, eating a combo plate after pounding a few beers is about as good as it gets.
After watching the 4th of July fireworks from the Hudson River, my friends and I were making our way back to the subway but we were feeling a bit hungry and so decided to head to the infamous halal cart on 53rd& 6th ave. I've been hearing about this place as the Chicken n' Rice stand (not its official name btw) for 5 years and I finally got the chance to experience what everybody's been raving about. It was dark at night but we were just follow the crowds going east cuz they were all thinking the same thing to eat too lols As we make our way across the avenues, we saw many halal stands, but don't be fooled by them and we continued walking until we saw the stand w/ the LINE. The line was long like there were prolly 50 ppl ahead of us, but we got up there in ~15+ mins so it wasn't that bad. I also got this big yellow tote bag from the stand while waiting on line too. I paid my 6 bucks and got my combo meal (chicken, lamb, rice, salad, pita bread, white sauce). I also added some bbq sauce and you MUST get this! the white sauce is good and all but the bbq sauce just adds that nice kick to the meat. Some of us were waiting on line while others got seats on the streets so I was able to get a seat after i finished ordering =D i couldn't finish it that night, and saved the rest for tmr's lunch and it was still just as good except for the pita bread. my awesome late-night meal after July 4th fireworks show: yelp.com/biz_photos/xEnN? Now, every time I come around midtown west, I get the mood for their halal, but I have to keep reminding myself that the stand opens at 7PM and not all day long. Keep that in mind you halal craving peeps.
Seriously over 2000 reviews! ?I had to check this place out. ?I was in NYC for a week and my hubby tried two other halal carts and this was the best one! ?It was close to 12:30pm when we stopped by here. ?There were literally about 6 other people in front and by the time we left, there were over 25 people in line. ? I got lamb over rice and they give you a good amount. ?Since the line moves very quickly, you immediately get a hot plate. ?Love to dip my lamb in the white sauce but BEWARE the red hot sauce is HOT!!! ?I just ?had my hubby add the sauce on the side because I can never enjoy my meal when my mouth is on fire. ?So I quickly dip my plastic fork in the red sauce then stuck my fork in a a piece of lamb and then put it in my mouth.... my tongue was blazing steam. ?That sauce is hot, it was good but the hottest red sauce ever had! ?Make sure you get a bottle of water to wash your meal down with. Glad I got to stop by and check out all the hype. ?Halal guys need to take over the streets of San Francisco next.
Bomb.com Who would have thought street food would be that good!! I was quite scared the first time having it cause I didn't now what to expect! I always thought street food would be dirty and gross...but yet again my moto is "the dirty the better the food!", but I didn't expect this place to be as GREAT as it was. WARNING: SPICY red sauce is ACTUALLY SPICY! and trust me, I am they type to can handle spicy!!! THE line is super long!!! but worth the wait. If you are ever visiting NYC or just need a midnight snack...This is the place to go!!! Price: for $6 its worth the wait!!!! I can't even finish the whole thing! Dish: I usually get Half chicken, Half Lamb! try it! I usually don't like chicken but this chicken is actually juicy!
The other day I was in the neighborhood waiting for a friend and I watched a man, who I guessed to be homeless. He was "messing" around with some flattened pieces of cardboard in a vestibule. As I stood there for a moment, I realized that he was Muslim and preparing to pray. I appreciated that he found the time to do so in the chaos of the city and was able to drown out all the noise that surrounded us. But after he finished, he took a short walk to the corner and started working at the 53rd and 6th cart and I didn't see him wash his hands or use any anti-bacterial. Health code violation, much?
I will wait in line in the pouring rain for this delicious food. ?Halal Cart is my go to staple every time I visit NY and the dish of choice is the combo (lamb/chicken) rice plate. ?The white sauce is dangerously delicious and just a bit of the red sauce will have you reaching for your drink as your tongue lights on fire. ?The red sauce is like Tabasco on steroids. ?That being said, I seem to be a sucker for the heat so end up adding more white sauce to balance out the hot sauce. ?The best part of this cart is that they serve food all night long, the time when you really need something to grease the belly before heading to bed. ?It should go without saying, but this is a cash only place so make sure to always carry $6 in your pocket for the food and don't forget grabbing a soda at the next food cart to wash it all down.
Oh, it's love. Hot love with a squirt (or several) of delicious creamy white sauce.
This was the first time i've ever even heard of the word "Halal." ?I know my uncultured butt would understand what this food was about, but i'll try anything once. ?And you know, it was pretty delicious. ?I just really wish I wasn't in 18 degree weather when I ate it. ?I really can't explain what it tasted like. ?The foods worked well together, especially with the white sauce. ?Oh and I didn't even touch the hot sauce. ?I can handle a little to moderately spicy foods, but my girlfriend told me it was even hot for her and she was bottle fed hot sauce as a kid. ?So if you can beat the line, even though they're pretty quick about it, try some of the food. ?It's not at all expensive. ?2 people can share 1 plate and it's only $6 total. ?Just make sure the night is nice and you're not freezing your a$$ off.
I am sure this place does not need another review but just to mention, this is a food cart in NYC, next to the Hilton tower and believe it or not you can get something really quick, delicious at this place for real cheap. My favorite: Lamb with Pita bread, no rice. Lots of White sauce and generous red (hot) sauce. = $5. This has been my favorite casual/meal food place since school. No NYC trip is complete without at least one meal of this platter.
His palms are sweaty, knees week, arms are heavy... He's nervous, but on the surface he looks calm and ready, To order Halal: combo with white sauce aplenty. This is about how I felt standing in line at New York's top rated Halal cart, after having read all the reviews on Yelp warning of the businesses streamline efficient ordering requirements. ?Thanks to my fellow Yelpers, though, nobody would have guessed by the smoothness of my order that I was an out of towner who'd never dined at a street cart before. ?(And for shame, being a native Portlander.) The only thing I will add that others on here may have not, is that I'm a somewhat picky eater when it comes to meat. ?I don't like strangely discolored meat, and I particularly dislike biting into those chewy or bony bits of random flesh. ?Nasty! Well the Halal Cart put me completely at ease, having finished the entire platter with not one such reproachful bite. ?The white sauce was delicious, and the lamb was flavored just right as well. ?I'll definitely be coming back for more!
I waited for 15 minutes for a gyro. It was good but not amazing. I'd go back but I'd had other carts that were as good as this.
No, no, no, no, no. Bad tourist. First of all, would you really bet your life that you are even at the RIGHT food cart? The one you saw on TLC or the Food Network or whatever? Are you SURE it isn't that one on the other side of 6th Avenue? Or maybe that one down on 52nd street? Yep, didn't think so. Look, I get it if you don't know what "street meat" is and you are getting into the NYC vibe. And I get it if you work nearby and want something quick and cheap. But, you know, it is just OK. I am not going to play the snob card and try to expand my street cred by talking about this other cool cart you don't know about, which is way better and blah blah blah. All these carts are about the same. Good, a little too greasy, with tasty calorie bomb sauces that make you regret it a couple of minutes after you finish eating. And even though they don't taste a lot like garlic to you when you eat them, your coworkers complain if you eat at your desk, and your breath tastes like garlic for 2 days afterwards. But come on people, don't stand in a long line for this one. There is one on every corner in this area, and they are all equally, um, good.
that chicken rice bowl was the best thing that happened to me. go to any of those carts -- they all have the same food. just because one has the longest line doesn't mean it has the best food. (trust me, i saw them carting food back and forth from each other) GET THE CHICKEN RICE WHEN YOU'RE IN NEW YORK! A MUST-EAT!!
Its true, beware of the imitators. 53rd and 6th is the magical corner where you can sample NY's finest street food...A chicken & lamb with rice platter ?the famed Halal Cart! Make sure you go wo the one that has the yellow bags. The other "halal" marked carts are those jumping on the bandwagon. This past week was my 2nd time in NYC and my 1st time trying out the Halal cart from several recommendations from friends. I'm glad I found this spot as I will definitely make it a mandatory food stop next time i'm in town. The white sauce is definitely what helps accompany the chicken and lamb. Like many others have said, take it easy on the red hot sauce because too much will mess up your taste buds all day long. A few drops goes a long way. Enjoy!
Honestly, best cheap to-go food cart food ever. Wait, scratch that. Best food ever! It's so incredibly cheap but with large portions. Get the mixed platter with some white sauce (and hot sauce if you like things spicy, unlike me). There is usually a line but the guys at the food cart are very fast and efficient. They do not waste time doing anything. Very good for eating late at night. This place always has a line even at 3am. During summer nights it's really nice to sit by the fountains or on a nearby bench just eating. So so so good and definitely worth the $6. (But... the next morning you will most likely feel like shit after eating the 1500 calories or whatever amount of calories the platter has. It will feel like you just ate the entire world. You will feel ridiculously bloated and uncomfortable. But it will be worth it! Trust me!) Also there are a lot of "fake" carts that try to imitate. Don't fall for it. Get the original.
It's aiiiight.
5 stars? ?You betcha! ?Definitely go for the lamb platter with both white and hot sauce. ?You'll be licking the plate as you bumble away in your food/grease coma. ?I recently paid a ridiculous amount to park while driving through NYC (even though I could have gone over the GWB to get to Conn.) just to have this food. ?The parking wasn't worth the price, but the food made it all better!
OMG! with so much hype, i was afraid i was doomed for some disappointment. We headed to this cart after my beloved A's beat the Mets at Citifield. We were both hungry but saved our appetites for the halal cart. We shared the chicken over rice, and it was enough to leave us both satisfied. Great serving size for just $6! The white sauce is off the hook...and be forewarned....the red sauce is SUPER spicey....so use with caution. The Mr. absolutely loved this dish. I can see now why they are so popular. We lucked out and only waited a few minutes in line. Make sure you look for the guys in the yellow shirts, and long lines, as there are many different halal carts out there. We will certainly make another trip back to this cart the next time we're in NYC!
The chicken and rice cart on 53rd and 6th ave is the best $6 meal in NYC. ?I always get a mix (chicken and lamb) and load up my plate with the white sauce. ?In addition to the meal being incredibly tasty, you get a ton of food. ? Line moves fast and perfect meal for a late night in the city
Just another 53rd and 6th review for the masses to read. I like this place because it is cheap and filling. I mean for the size that they give you, it nothing to complain about. The food quality may not be as great, but HEY its a food cart on the side of the street not a sit down restaurant. I give this 5 stars because of the classic nostalgia of tradition that I have made. Which is pilgrimages to the cart when ever either I or my friends are not sober. The food is best enjoyed at the night time and when the person is so called "not sober." Other than that, try not to eat to fast your you will FEEL LIKE A PLATTER! trust me on this, after eating so much, you will understand when you finish one platter in one sitting!
Heed the hours listed -- if you don't go then, you'll be getting some impostors. ;-P This was so tasty. ?Like most people at 2am, I may have been a little intoxicated, but oh my gooodddnessss. ?The white sauce was so tasty, a little sweet, and then there was both mild red sauce and holy shit my mouth is burning red sauce. ?I was a bit liberal with that last one, and yes it hurt a little, but AAAH it was so good. The lamb was really good in addition to the chicken, so I'd suggest the combo of chicken + lamb with rice.
its exactly what you expect. ?Long lines, perfect for the drunk munchies. ?Cant beat the price for the type of food. I like the chicken and lamb combo. ?DO NOT OVERESTIMATE the power of the hot sauce, trust me.
$6 for a lamb and chicken combo. ?It was tasty, yet there was so much food, I wasn't able to finish mine. ? Be generous with the white sauce, and careful with the hot sauce.
The best!
I can use some of these Halal carts in LA. Cheap, fast, and friggin good. Had the combo and I was stuffed... couldn't get out of the hotel room for the rest of the night.
Chicken & rice here is the BOMB. I tend to eat it super late at night but others have told me that it still taste just as good during the day. The price is right and the line moves quickly so I can't complain much there. If I were to modify the plate to make it better, I would add a little bit more lettuce in there. Just saying. For those who think this place is overrated, come here after a night of drinking and you will NOT SAY THAT AGAIN (unless you black out and don't know what you are doing). BTW if you are a true SAUCE BOSS like myself, you need to basically drench the whole plate in white sauce. DO NOT just put it on the top layer and think, "oh this should be plenty" because YOU ARE WRONG!!! It's just not enough like Lebron moving to the Heat. I'm sorry. Check yourself before you wreck yourself and use the white sauce generously. Red sauce in my opinion is too spicy for no reason. It's not the tasty spicy kind but more of a peppery spicy that destroys your taste buds FOR NO REASON. avoid the WTF moment in your life and don't use too much of it. HERE IS THE SPARKNOTE VERSION: If you come to new york city, you gotta try this place at least once.
Ordered the combo with chicken and lamb. Once we saw the huge plate of food, we were skeptical that we would even finish half of it. But once we got started eating, we inhaled it so quickly we didn't know what hit us. The rumor is, they lace their food with crack. Very high possibility. Because we wanted to eat this every meal after that, but we had to exercise ultimate self-control. MUST TRY, PEOPLE!
this place is seriously amazing! i rarely give out 5 stars, but this place well deserves it! get the chicken and rice with white sauce!
Not sure what all the hype is about. ?I mean chicken and yellow rice..it is good and the white sauce is very rich. ?But, I didn't think it was anything to write home about. Maybe I should have gotten drunk first.
This is review #2011. In 2011. had this on a friday night before hitting up MoMa (which is free on Friday nights), which was a great idea because coming out of the MoMa, we saw a HUGE line. Which, if you are greeted with one WHEN (not if) you visit this Halal food cart, you must be brave and stand in it, because it is worth it. You will make friends and be rewarded with one of the best meals in NY. The lamb and chicken combo plate for $6 is enough to feed two people. Each bite is magic. The textures of the crispy lettuce, flavorful meat, and chewy pita all blend together so well, it's like they're made for each other. I suggest mixing the white sauce (lovingly dubbed crack sauce by many other reviewers for its addictive qualities) homogenously in your bowl before taking your first bite into bliss. ?Warning: hot sauce is hotter than your average hot sauce. I truly cannot conceive any street food to be better than this.
It was 2am and the group of people that I was with was talking about the best food there is out there, even better if you are trying to sober up. They kept saying 'Halal' and I finally decided to ask ''what is that?", after the initial shock they said ''we have to take you!'' so the quest began... An hour or so later we arrived at the place. A cart...on a street corner?! Oh well, I'm already here and I've always wondered if food from a cart is any good. The line was ridiculous but totally worth the wait. The chicken on top of rice, topped with cucumber sauce, and served with pita bread is like dying and going to heaven(if there were such a thing). If only San Diego, CA had one of these to go to late at night after a night out.
Stumbled across this places after seeing a long line so decided to try. Must get, combo with lamb and chicken. sweet /spicy red sauce and white tarty sauce is a must. There is also this red spicy sauce that is pretty spicy so don't mistaken it with the sweet chili sauce. Would've given all 5 stars if the server wasn't so damn grumpy and rude.
You can't miss this place. It's the spot with a line down the block no matter what time you show up. My only regret is not eating here sooner. The food was so delicious I came back 4 more times over the next month, nevermind the toll over the tunnel is twice the cost of the combo (6 bucks) and can quite frankly feed 2 but once you try it, you won't share! Stick with as much white sauce as possible and the the red sauce is spicy. There isn't parking. Be warned, this can lead to a massive addiction
It's NOT the best halal in NYC. Average lamb (cheesy taste), average chicken. Nice takeout tin. The biggest serving of halal food I've ever had for 6 bucks. Pita is given without requesting it. Add a dollar for 3 extra falafels. Relatively long line.
Ok, so this has been rated over 2000 times, I think that says something. I'm not going to go into too much detail, because I feel like its already been said. I will say this though, If you're into chicken shawarma/donair/ gyro as a go-to option the chicken platter (well any platter) from the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart ?never disappoints. 2000 people have vouched for this. Quick tips. Check your streets there a lot of ?false "halal guys" out there. (good food, but not the halal you are looking for) Lines are long (because its good) but move fast. The portions are (extremely) generous Those who like some heat (everyone's idea of hot is different) go w/ the red sauce Those who don't like a little heat go plain or with the white sauce Enjoy!
In this world, people are separated by those who've had the platter and those who have not..... If you're in NYC and your down to try something different (street food), this is the place you can't miss.
believe the hype, it's delicious. SW corner of 53rd and 6th avenue is the one you want, which is easy to tell because it always has the chronic line. lamb and chicken platter $1 for two extra tubs of white sauce (it comes with two, youll want more) I also ask for an extra hot sauce because I'm a G like that cash only it's really really really rad.
I crave for this EVERY DAY. This weekend, I had it again while in NYC and well, it was only a teaser because now I can't have it when I want it. Go early, like 3am if you don't want to wait in a LONG line. And do NOT over indulge in that hot sauce they have on the side because it's REALLY REALLY SPICY. Get the combo platter and it's CASH ONLY! ?That's all you really need to know :)
For years, I've walked by the lines, wondering what on earth is up with that? I hate lines, and have generally been quite satisfied with the food from many other trucks. ?A friend of mine claims that the reason for the line is that this is the only "true" Halal truck in the city, but since most of the customers are not Muslim, even if true, I doubt this is the reason. ? Finally, one day not long ago I had some time to kill and decided to wait on this very long line. ?My feeling after it was...The Emperor's New Clothes? ?What am I missing? ? First, because they make an impossibly large amount of food to feed the frenzy, the cooked chicken is cooked in far bigger amounts at one time than any other truck, and the chicken piles up quite high. ?I don't think this helps. Second, unlike every other truck, with the ubiquitous question, "White sauce? ?Hot sauce?," you're on your own with the sauce. ?There's a little area next to the truck where you can put your own sauce on. ?Well, I had no idea how much sauce to put on, or how hot their particular sauce would be, but I can tell you, I put on too much. ?It was impossible to eat more than half my meal, and I threw out a lot of food as a result. ?[I'm noticing many reviews mentioning a different type of experience with sauce, but that's how it was when I went.] Third, the drinks are sold separately by their drink guy at the corner. ? I felt that for the price and the time out of my life, I shouldn't have to apply my own sauces, and disliked having to buy my drink separately. Overall: ?Not impressed. ?I might give it another shot sometime, but I'll stick with the Rafi truck, I think.
pretty much amazing! I was first introduced to this little plate of love in 2009 by a local friend. Love at first bite! Since then I have made several trips back to NYC just for this (yes, that good!) The mystery white & hot as fire sauce is the BEST!!
New York, you befuddle me A city so rich, full of diversity A misnomer you are, like it's meant to be A culinary destination for fatties like me Foie gras, Jean Georges and fancy places Complete with waiters and their linen grimaces Casual feasting is what appeals to me Street carts filled with oiled chicken, smelling so lovely Laden with yellow rice And white sauce too Because you taste so nice I'm a SLAVE4U!
With over 1500 reviews and 4.5 stars for a food truck.. what more can I say? Get the combo with the lamb and chicken and rice, but you have to ask for the white yogurt sauce separately (either that or they forgot to hand that to me). Yes the line is long, but it goes pretty quickly. I particularly like the location, mostly since the bf and I were able walk over after putting our name down at a nearby busy Japanese restaurant (refer to my review on Hagi), and devour the lamb and chicken as a starter (no kidding) before going back into the restaurant. Totally worth it when you're trying to binge as much as possible in a short span of time in NYC!
I love chicken and rice! This place is amazing! The only reason I'm giving it a four is because of the long lines! The key is they actually three carts, take a look at the right side and on the north west side of 52 nd street! As a city kid, I've tried theirs more than a hundred times. I've also tried multiple different chicken and rice plates... The white sauce here is the best... You can imitate the chicken and the rice but you can't get that white sauce anywhere else.
The best gyro I've ever had! ?White sauce is yummy!
Best food one can ever eat. Its the best chicken and rice in the city. I have brought alot of people here and they all loved it. We once went there to eat all the way from jersey on the train in like - 12 degree weather. There are 3 carts by the same guy in the area. I prefer the one opp ATT just because the line is smaller and there is more place to sit and enjoy. I think its the white sauce that makes it complete. Just dont put too much because you will feel sick after the ordeal.
I can eat their food 2-3 times a week and it doesn't get old!! There's something about their white sauce that is unbeatable! For $6: the chicken combo serves as much lunch and dinner. Everytime I come to NYC, I always drop by and get my Halal fix!
Simply Heaven, def. worth the wait.
OMG..!! i have always been a fan of halal carts in the city but this one raise the bar..love the quantity and the quality of the platter, their white is heavenly and unlimited..the line is too long but its worth the wait :)
Believe it or not there is a definitive bar for halal cart street meat in the city and this is THE place. ?When someone mentions 53rd and 6th, you either know it or you're immediately introduced. Stand in line (even when it's 4 AM), pay $6 and your only choice is chicken, lamb, or combo and white sauce, hot sauce. ?If you have extra time, you can even observe how a single business (halal cart) inspires an entire economy to serve the needs created by that business (competitor halal carts, beverage carts, taxi lines, etc). Oh, and be warned, I personally love spicy food but their hot sauce is really, really hot. ?Be judicious and go easy with it.
Late night snack and the best bang for your buck here in midtown is what you want then this is the spot to be! Open from 7PM to 5am on Friday and Saturday, it's perfect for late night snack or just a really late dinner. Just be sure to go the one with the longest line as they are the original cart and the chicken, lamb or chicken/lamb and rice are always hot and fresh.
The Halal Guys gave me my first ever taste of street food and I am now officially hooked. On their cart, at least. It really is as good as the bajillion reviews have made abundantly clear. It's crazy...looking at it, you can't help but notice that it's absolutely nothing special. It shouldn't taste as good as it does, but it defies all presumption by knocking your socks off. I got the chicken platter and got two very filling meals out of it for just $6. The white sauce is divine, and the hot sauce is as well. But beware! When they say it's hot, they mean HOT. Even if you like spice, take it easy, trust me. My Latin boyfriend squeezed it all over his platter and I thought his mouth would explode.
Prolly the best chicken/gyro place in NYC....halal too!!! Amazingly good food....I am never tired of eating at Halal Brothers!
Cheap? Check White Sauce? Check Hot Sauce? Check Combination Lamb/Chicken Platter? Check Long Line? Check Fast Service? Check Drunk Food? Check 5 stars? Check
This place is soooo legit. Out of all the mediocre halal carts out on every NYC street, this place blows them away. All you need to know: Lamb is sooooo flavorful, moist and yummy. Chicken is good but ranks second to the lamb. Spread the white sauce generously Be careful of the red. Super spicy! Get it over rice or in a nice soft pita bread. Rice platter comes with a small side salad. Cheapppppp! Paid $10 for a lamb pita sandwich and chicken over rice. Tons of food. The night I went they had two carts operating on both corners of 53rd and 6th. Because I'm not a native New Yorker, I just went to the one that had a longer line. Can't go wrong there :P
Late night food...yummy. On the way here, the new yorkers were having a debate which one was the real cart. "The real one is WEST of 6th." "No, it's EAST of 6th." My friends didn't want to wait so we went to the one with shorter line (probably the fake one).... So we get in line, and my fellow Yelper foodie friend tells me "You want to order the combo, with no lettuce." I start to object, saying "But usually if I'm given a choice, I choose lamb over chicken." But she's the NYC local, and tells me "Trust me." I kowtow to her Yelp Elite'ness and do as she says. She also tells me "put lots of white sauce on" but then tells me "that read stuff is hot sauce and it's REALLY REALLY hot." Another friend thought it was BBQ sauce and started to pour some onto mine before I could object. Holy shit this hot sauce is hot. My mouth was burning afterwards....felt worse than the time I had a habanero burger...but that's a totally different story. New business idea: Put an ice cream stand next to the hot sauce condiments and they'll sell like hotcakes!
Ok...how can u live or visit manhatten and not check out THIS halal cart? (Only to be known as 53rd & 6th) what can I say? For 6 dollars u get a combo plate with chicken, lamb, pita bread, rice and veggies...and lets not forget all the white and red sauce u can handle to put on it! The only pain is the line...if ure lucky enough u might only have to put up with a small 15 min line...but I've seen days that its half a block long. There is the exact same cart across the street now...but Idk I just don't trust it if its not on the of corner. The guys working can be a d*ck at times and I hate when ppl they know cut in line...but over all ..great street food! I would eat here more often if my stomach can handle it
Ok...so the first time that I ate the lamb from this cart, going down it was amazing...however a few hours later my stomach was furious. It was so good however, that I decided that giving it another go was a must. Subsequently I have not had any GI issues and have loved it just as much on many occasions. The white sauce (which I think is doctored mayo) is fantastic. Though I will say it is possible to mix too much in (my boyfriend and I did once accidentally..not good). The hot sauce is seriously hot. I've definitely mixed a little bit too much of that in too, and I have a tough tongue. The line can be long during evening hours, but the food is well worth the wait.
Haven't had similar experiences to compare but the meal was great and super cost effective (that I think all same style places are? Don't know) Took the chicken and rice platter. The chicken was juicy and well cooked, the rice was seasoned well but a bit oily, the salad was a nice addition. The WHITE SAUCE was very tasty but a bit oily. Even if spice lover, the red sauce needs caution, extra hot stuff!
Delicious and cheap. Enough said.
I was sober this time aannnndddd the food was just as good!! I mean sooooo good. Yeah so the cart isnt that clean and yes there's a huge chance that you'll end up with Salmonella poisoning, but you know what?? I don't give a fuck! Salmonella has never tasted this good. I went around 3:00pm and the line wasn't bad (10 minute wait). When it was my turn to order I gave the guy a "as-salam alaykum" and let me tell you he hooked it up! Got the chicken and lamb combo, extra white sauce and this time I asked for BBQ sauce and the combo was reaaaalllly good. MASSIVE stomach ate 15 mins later, but its so worth it. It was a cold day out and I saw this homeless man who looked like he was starving, I had to get him a plate. Dude loved it! Martin I doubt you'll ever read this, but the next time I hit the cart I got you my man!!
Their chicken and lamb with rice is the best $6 street food I've ever had. First off they give you a huge plate! When you get it, be sure to douse the meat with white sauce...make sure the meat drowns. My boyfriend and I had it twice on our 4 night trip in New York. Apparently my drunk ass said it was "BOMB.COM x 10" over and over when we got it after hitting the bars one night....although I wouldn't disagree being my sober self either =] It seems like it's 24 hours?! and they have several carts positioned on each block at this intersection. You can't miss it!
I work in the CA-CIB building between 52nd and 53rd and can smell these guys cooking whenever I step outside. ?To reiterate, the aroma will make your mouth water regardless of whether you just ate a 10 course meal or not. ?Call it self restraint or apathy, but I've only eaten here twice. ?Yes it's cheap, yes the white sauce is addictive, and yes the hot sauce is out of this world spicy and delicious, but I can't imagine eating this calorie/fat intensive meal as often as these other people without seriously questioning my health. Why I am writing this review is as a PSA to let people know that these guys are NOT at the southwest corner of 53rd and 6th during the day. ? It is widely known that those guys are imposters, so tourists, please stop going to them and posting pictures and reviews to claim they are the authentic 53rd and 6th Halal guys. ? The real ones are at the following locations during the day: i) southeast corner of 53rd and 6th ii) southwest corner of 52nd and 6th (I get mine here as there is almost never a wait). iii) 53rd and 7th (not sure which corner as I don't venture there) It is only at night do they move to the southwest corner of 53rd and 6th. And if there is ever any doubt, look for the yellow plastic bags, the authentic guys use yellow instead of white.
This place was so damn hyped up leading to my NYC trip that I went straight there after I landed at JFK. I honestly ate a quarter of my chicken and rice bowl before tossing the rest in the trash. I ate it again the next day while I was drunk and devoured it. 2 stars sober and 4 stars drunk? haha
white sauce. enough said.
Holy S*** Mixed plate, with extra white sauce and hot sauce! Make sure you have EXTRA white sauce! the lamb was delicious! the chicken was great but the white sauce on everything, makes it 5 stars! Back to cali where there are no halal carts ?:(
I'm writing reviews on all the stuff I did while in n.y. for the people like myself coming from outta town an wanting to hear it from someone other than locals cause, let's face it ....people from different areas have different views ?from what the locals have,( like beer joints). ? We stayed , upper westside, and were coming up on leaving day and hadn't really tested the "street meat" to it's fullest. I took a cab from west 73rd, to this specific joint cuz of the reviews and of course got the combo w, extra sauces, hailed another cab and went back to the apartment and ate that damn food like I,d been in a p.o.w. camp for the past decade. I am saying it was really good and everyone should try it for themselves. I know when I'm back in the city I will hit it up....."eat the street!!!!"
well worth the wait.
I don't even why I am writing to tell you this cart when there are already 1500+ reviews, but maybe its because "chicken and rice" (this is how my friends and I refer to the cart) is all kinds of awesome! So awesome, in fact, that for a friends birthday, instead of a typical sit down dinner and drinks...we did chicken and rice and drinks! We literally drove into the city, got our food from the cart, and then went back to eat it in our respective cars. Afterward, we went to a lounge to get our drink on...CLASSY I know lol! I'm not even gonna lie..it turned out to be quite a memorable night and a construction worker eating a platter near the cart even offered to pay for my food. Thanks mr. construction man *wink* Ohh but the shenanigans don't end there. There have been a few occasions where I would get up and have an overwhelming urge to get a platter [lamb, rice, salad, and a warm pita. yummm!]! Of course, I would cave and take 1 bus and 2 trains (yes...I understand I may have a problem lol) to satisfy my craving. I remember that once the guy at the cart asked if I worked in the area and I had to laugh as I said no, because I was thinking about how kind of insane it was that I had commuted all the way from brooklyn for the sole purpose of getting a platter! The cart is notorious for many reasons. Among them is the the huge amount of food you get for the cheap price (seriously, I've never finished a platter in one sitting). Another stand out is the hot sauce. I consider myself to be a lover of all things spicy, but even I stay away from their hot sauce. Too much of that stuff can render your meal inedible! You've been warned! ? I am admittedly a picky rice eater. There are very few places outside my mom's kitchen, where I can say the rice is good. This cart happens to be one of the few places that do qualify. Who would have thunk right?! Plus the rice is bright orange...it makes me happy just thinking about it haha. Besides the neon rice and "burn a hole in your mouth" sauce, the last thing that makes this cart stand out is its white sauce. ?I have tried a few other carts(and happy to say I am alive) and not one has come close to the yumminess of 53rd and 6th's food OR sauce. So, is this the best meal of your life? no. But is this as good as street meat gets? I think so. Simply put... this is THE KING OF CARTS! P.s....by cheap, I mean cheap! 6 bucks for a platter I think?...I haven't gone in a while so the price may have changed
Oh why did I forget to review this place of all places? This was the one place I had to visit every time I went to NY - no matter what! Seriously, I was very skeptical in the beginning about a food cart. Come on. How could this little cart be so good and have so many patrons during the hours of 7pm and like 3am? Just didn't make sense. When I saw it for the first time, I was really surprised because everything I was told was true. The humongous line, the yellow shirts, and the enticing smell. Couldn't wait to try it. The wait was probably 20 minutes at the max. It varies on what time and what day you come. Even though it's known for their Chicken and rice, they also have beef and lamb as well. I personally love the beef the most. It has an extra punch of flavor to it, but the other two are good as well. That round sphere of food is surprisingly big and could be split between two people easily. There is salad, there is rice, there is meat, and there is this fabulous white sauce that just tastes so good when put on top of everything. The hot sauce is super hot so I'd be careful if you put it everywhere. Last time I went it was 6.99 a plate so that is super inexpensive. Cheap, good food! Best food cart ever!!
Had this plenty of times, sober and drunk lol. 10x better when you're drunk, then again most food is. I personally prefer a chicken/ lamb/ or combination gyro sandwich ($4) over the full platter ($6), since I don't like to overeat too much after late night drinking. Cheap and good. Thats what every post drinking food should be, and this is one of them. If you are extremely hungry, get the typical Chicken and Rice. Just go easy on the hot sauce, but go crazy with the yogurt sauce.
It is the best cart food I've ever had! The food is worth queuing up for and the portion size is way too generous. The hot sauce is really HOT so use it sparingly, I squirted extra white sauce on mine from the side of the cart. Highly recommended!
I love chicken and rice. It's great for lunch on a nice day outside or late night after a fun night out in the city. I usually get chicken and lamb with rice and white sauce added all the time. For $5, you can't beat that. At night I usually went to the 53rd/6th SW corner, but then I started going to the cart across the street on the SE corner because the line becomes too long when I was told it's the same owner. Recently I just found out that if you want the original chicken and rice for lunch, go to the stand on SE corner, or go to 53rd/7th. The one on the SW corner is a competitor during the day. Make sure you get the yellow bag! midtownlunch.com/2008/11?
The one thing missing from CA is amazing cart food like the kind from the Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th street. ?Let me tell you: ?there is a reason this cart has 1600+ reviews and a 4.5 star rating. ?And there is definitely a reason why there is a long time (though it really doesn't take very long for the line to move). This is the one place that I recommend to ALL of my friends going to NYC. ?Yum! ?I prefer the lamb over the chicken (though I was reluctant to try the lamb, because I had never had it, definitely much tastier!). ?And don't even get my started on that amazing white sauce (hehe, I'm a fatty and always ask for extra). ?All for only $6. Greatest part is it's open til 4am. ?If you think it's amazing sober, man, it is heavenly after a few drinks. =P Do not be daunted by the line, it'll move quick, and will be well worth it! P.S. The hot sauce is HOT, so add it sparingly.
Thought it was really good value but unfortunately not worth the trek from East Village. ?If we were having a late night close by I would definitely make the trek for a late night feed.
My recommendation: half and half plate with EXTRA WHITE SAUCE It might not look like much...but the Halal cart at the corner of 53rd and 6th in Manhattan might be the most delicious food you'll ever taste. ?I get a mixed chicken and gyro and rice platter for $6; they're open from ~noon until 4AM (I think) and the white sauce...has crack in it (it MIGHT). ?It might be the best food I've had regardless of source or price! GET EXTRA WHITE SAUCE... pictures: jjkan.tumblr.com/post/69?
cheap and delish. i ordered the combo plate, but shoulda just had the lamb. that lamb is so freakin good. plus get extra white sauce. so cheap for especially huge portions.
The idea of cart food used to gross me out a bit (and it still does a little) but this place is a MUST if you're in New York Ctiy. The white sauce is ridiculously good, as are the other sauces (note - the hot sauce is very hot). The food itself is delicious as well and would be great even without the sauces (but I do suggest putting loads and loads of sauce just for the added delicious-ness). The line can get pretty long at times. I've walked past the cart a few times before in the winter when it was freezing and the line's stretched for what I would think to be a good 10-20 minute wait. It's definitely worth it though... especially if you've never had it before. Warning: You WILL get hooked.
3.5 stars. It's good food, and you get a lot of it for a very low price. ?But to wait for an hour or so for this, I don't think so. ?I can imagine falling head over heels for this food if it were 3 o'clock in the morning and food choices were nil to semi-nil. ?At 8pm, after a half an hour wait in the line, the food is 3-star okay, and ?add a half star for value if you'd like.
10.22.11 and 10.25.11 Dear Halal Guys: Hi. ?I know we just met, but I think I'm in love already. ?Any one of you would work. ?Preferably the one that cooks for me and doesn't take my money. The first time, after the New York nightlife at 4:00 AM, we stumbled into the line and I claimed my prize (after winning a bet at the club...victory is sweet, and in this case, very spicy). ?It was devoured rather quickly, with some spilling on the floor because, let's facde it, it's 4:00 in the morning and my coordination isn't all there. I had to judge this sober (OK, hungover). ?It happens to be right downstairs from my NY office building. ?Jackpot. Chicken and rice and pita and lettuce. ?So simple, and so delicious. Drench in white sauce and have him draw a heart with the red sauce. ?No regrets. Total damage with a soda: $7
The line up situation is explained by a taste of anything they sell, really. During the both times I lined up for this cart it was pretty hilarious to see curious faces on bystanders, what with the 40 people in line for some gyro or lamb on rice. Once you do finally get a taste of what is offered here, you'll be amazed and speechless. Obviously, everything comes pre-made via a black SUV in serious plastic boxes, but the addition of sauces, the pita and the little-more-spice-than-you- can-handle makes this street corner super rad.
(Halal Halal) All my foodies that ready to pay cheap (Dollaz Dollaz) Bitches know the red sauce is (Hotta Hotta) Come on, you drunk and want food (Follow Follow) It's Yumma... (2x) Think you know the real Halal? The best plate dolla for dolla (Halal Halal) 53rd and 6th (Gotta Gotta) Screw you fake bitches, "We are different" jiggaz You get the chicken and rice plate its ridiculous (Chicken Chicken) Pop da white sauce its finger (Lickin' Lickin') Sure the line is long (Get it Get it) Baby Baby So good you don't wanna leave tonight and food truck they be Cause you really need to be eating at any cost It's in a to-go tin, if you full, then just eat more When it hits your lips, so good you get twisted Have you twitchin', like "Damn look I am addicted" I just wanna have it in the worst way, right after partying all day And put the meat and sauce all over my face, Heard me? I love that, dirty jigga cooking the meat hot, and heat it The combo of meat, rice, lettuce and sauce you need it (Halal Halal) All my foodies that ready to pay cheap (Dollaz Dollaz) Bitches know the red sauce is (Hotta Hotta) Come on, you drunk and want food (Follow Follow) It's only 6 dolla... (2x) Ja Rule - Holla Holla youtube.com/watch?v=Midc?
It was good, but not worth a long wait in line...thankfully, I went to the one on the southeast corner, so the wait wasn't more than 10-15 min. ?I enjoyed my lamb gyro from Kwik Meal on 45th & 6th much more. ?The hot sauce wasn't THAT spicy...I easily went through two servings and needed more.
chicken and rice + white sauce = amazing. the spicy sauce is crazy spicy!!!! beware! def worth the wait. and only $6!
I hate lamb... but the combo plate with chick & lamb over rice... OH MY! Ridiculously delicious. Add a lot of that spicy hot sauce and I'm set. I'm salivating as we speak. I was a skeptic due to all the hype around this place but I must say it has lived up to its full potential. This will definitely be one of the first places I hit as soon as I'm back in the Big Apple!
My favorite food cart in NYC. ?Great food at an amazing price. ?However, be prepared to wait in line. ?Order the combo lamb/chicken platter with extra white sauce. ?You will not regret it, guaranteed!
This place hits the spot. This is my 2nd time eating here and I had to make sure I came back to scarf down this amazing dish. I ordered the combination plate with lamb and chicken. The orange thin rice is soft and goes perfectly with the meat. The white sauce I drench over everything and take it easy on the hot sauce. If you put too much hot sauce, you may regret it. This is a MUST eat place whenever I visit New York. It gets a ton of great reviews for a reason. If you come late you probably won't have to wait in any line. I love the halal guys cart. Recommendation: Combination platter.
This place is fine. Whatever. The chicken tastes like someone microwaved a wet pillow, and the bread is actual cardboard. ?It's the cheapest bread you've ever seen. ?But it's cheap and you get a lot of food and they make it quick. ?And it's the famous halal cart. Woo.wee. The hot sauce is volcano lava, but when you're drunk it's not quite so bad. Still way too hot though. Peer pressure is strong. ?This is the magnolia cupcake of drunk food.
I will be making my annual trip to New York in July. ?The Met, Carnegie Hall, the people, the subways, the restaurants...and all I can think about is getting to the Halal Cart.
This review is for the spicy red sauce that the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart carries (Can I say love love love love). I've seen people write that you should drench your chicken and rice with white sauce and then add a dab of spicy sauce for the best flavor. UM WRONG! It's actually the other way around. Ok maybe drenching your bowl with the spicy sauce is a bad idea. But I definitely prefer the spicy sauce over the white sauce, although I have to admit, the white sauce here is something special. But let's not diverge our attention from the star here! I even tried to sneak a few plastic to-go hot sauces but they are QUICK! They shook their head and told me the sauces are on the other side in bottles. DANGIT. Halal brothers, you win this time! I guess I"ll have to get it to go next time :P And for those of you looking for great quality food? Don't come here! This is where you would go for super cheap quick food when you are starving your ass off OR after a late night of drinking. Remember those hot dog carts out in front of the Hollywood clubs? mmmmm Yeaaaa those bacon wrapped hot dogs??? It's kinda like that. EXCEPT with awesome spicy sauce. Anyways I thoroughly enjoyed my red sauce drenched chicken over rice. None of the other carts can make it as spicy as this place!!
Hits the spot- chicken and rice with some pita and salad. $6 for 2 meals worth of food with a fast-moving line. ? Best eaten after a work day from hell. Why? ?Saltiness made me drowsy with food coma. ?zzzz like a baby
Really quickly: Its cheap Its a lot White sauce is tasty but has a lot of mayo in it Red sauce is indeed quite spicy. There are two carts, they have similar logos and what not, one has a long ass line, the other has a shorter line. ?They're the same, the only difference is the location and the length of the line, do with that what you will.
My favorite meal in NYC. $10 got me a sampler plate with falafel, chicken schwarma and kefta, rice and salad plus a soda. Load up on the yogurt sauce, but watch out for the hot sauce; it is HOT! Take your food into the Hilton lounge to enjoy in comfort.
We came at 3am in the morning and found that this truck was still crowded and lively.. Well, I realized that I was in the city that never sleeps.. When I tried the first bite of their lamb platter, it was just ok and I did not find something amazing about it. It was justtt.. plain good. Well, the lamb was actually pretty soft and did not smell like lamb (I like the smell of lamb, so I was disappointed eating lamb but doesn't smell like lamb).. But, when I added the chili sauce, one star was added to it.. the spicy sauce brought the taste into a whole new level.. Let me warn you first, the spicy sauce is really spicy! It was a pretty decent experience for me, but for my friends, well they asked to come back here the next day, so I guess they liked it very much.. Oo, it was very cheap, like 6$ per platter and the portion was huge (for me)
WAYY OVERHYPED! ? NOT worth it standing in the rain on a cold NY night! The white sauce is just ranch dressing -.- ?the hot red sauce you can get at any asian store, the lamb you can get at any greek place. ?NOTHING SPECIAL for such overhyped ratings. ? we JUST went to NY this past weekend, and let me warn other people to not even bother making the trip over. ?You can do better somewhere else. The only positive thing i can say is that the portions are big for $6. ?THAT'S IT.
it's not the greatest food i've ever had, but it's good, and definitely something eaters have to do if visiting NYC. ?the white sauce is indeed great, and the red sauce is indeed like eating a ball of fire (even for me, and i have a high spice tolerance). ? the eating experience is also a really fun part. ?line up in the middle of the night with a bunch of happy and hungry people, grab your food, and sit on the floor in circles with your friends to eat. ? i did have a bit of an unhappy stomach the next morning, but it was almost worth it. ? again - 3 or 4 stars on the food, but definitely something you have to do once!
I didn't quite get it. ?Better than average "street meat" but only by a fraction. ?Been to plenty of carts near my office there are very near to Halal in terms of quality/taste. ?However, because of the hype I had to wait 30 mins this cart, which is absurd. ?It appears I got caught mid shift or something, but it would have been considerate for one of the guys to have notified the line how long it would take. ?I'm sure most would have stayed, but it was irritating being in limbo for so long. ?Honestly...meh.
I LOVE the Halal Cart!! This is another one of my must haves when I am in NYC. The only reason I give it a 4 star is because they only service it late at night! Argh!! The food is cook just right!! And only for about $7 bucks it is a lot of food and GOOD food at that!! I always get the combination when I go. The rice,chicken,lamb, lettuce with the sauce and a little hot sauce (because it is extremely spicy!!). A PERFECT combination to a awesome late night treat! Definitely recommend everyone trying this place!
New years day/eve at two in the morning, street meat is the first thing that comes to mind, and yes it's wort the ageda on the train ride home. This cart is always packed, the turnover rate is incredible and the food is ultra seasoned tasty and by NYC standards pretty cheap. A must try if your visiting from out of town.
I had the combo platter so I could try the chicken and the lamb. ?The lamb definitely had more flavor, so I would just get that next time. ?It was sooo delicious, and for $6 a great steal. ?I totally understand why there is always a line.
I got to go to NY for the weekend for a wedding and was delighted to try the Halal Guys. ?There was a super long line, but the food it really quite great. Yummy lamb + rice + pita slices. A LOT of it. For just 6 bucks! I could have split it with TWO friends and be satisfied. ?Consumer Beware! the spicy sauce is SPICY. It even says on the sign: CAUTION HOT! I like spicy foods but four drops of this stuff mixed in and you wont be able to taste the difference between the rice and the meat. I think the funniest thing is that there are at least two other carts called the Halal Guys that look exactly the same. ?The vendors will even say the food is the same. Don't be fooled... Only one has a long line (and that's the one you wanna go to)
Wow. ?There are so many halal carts in NY. Even in this one corner of NY, I could see like 5 other competitors. ?Do not be fooled. ?This is the original and will have the longest line. The wait is worth it. ?I got the chicken and lamb combo on rice with a little salad and slice of pita AND a can of soda for only $7. Amazing price! ?The portion size is ridiculous. Even though my friend and I were starving we could have easily split one. ?Get lots of white size. It tastes like a looser version of sour cream. ?Do not get the hot sauce. Even if you ask for a little, they tend to douse it on. ? One of the coolest spectacles was watching them empy the grease pan from under the flat top grill. ?[Shudder]. ? Regardless, the chicken and lamb are tender and well-seasoned. The starchy rice is the perfect counter balance to the meat. ?The salad is just lettuce, but who really pays attention to that anyway. ?The pita bread is a garnish, but hey why not eat it if it's there. I want to go here every day when I'm in NY next time, especially after a late night.
my fav. "eat and run" spot in new york city. ?they have numerous halal carts practically in every block, but this specific one is by far THE BEST! ?i always order their chicken and rice w/ secret white sauce on the side. ?i ?can eat this meal repeatedly... breakfast, lunch and dinner...ohhh how i miss thee! ?i think it's time for another east coast visit *HINT*HINT* ; )
Every time i go to NY, i make a pit stop here. Best cart food EVER! I get the lamb and chicken plate with plenty of white and red sauce. (careful... the red sauce is a bit spicy, even for me) There's always a line but it's worth it! by the way.. i've always eaten it sober, so it's legitimately good. lol
Amazing food from a cart.....anyone I've ever spoken to about visiting NY recommends the "chicken and rice" but it's a Halal cart. The food is fabulous and it's definitely worth the wait, which usually isn't that long, even with a super long line. They are super efficient.
This is a meat friendly cart. That being said, as a semi-vegetarian they still did a pretty good job making me quite a tasty meal. CAREFUL of the hot sauce--I'm a girl who like's things spicy, but this stuff was ridiculous! Just a warning ya'll ; )
Okay, fine. I might have gone here at 4 am after a night out, but look. When a food cart has a line at 4 am you know it must be good. What I do remember about the food here is that the rice and the chicken were seasoned so well that they were both very flavorful. Honestly though, I think most of these reviews are a result of the high from a night out in New York, but nevertheless, it is completely worth it to come here, especially given the alternatives that are a worse use of your dollar (artichoke, cafeteria). WARNING: do not put on too much red sauce. My friend put it on for me, and I mistakently let him do whatever he thought was best. Biggest regret--ruined my food and my night. Okay maybe that is an exaggeration, but certainly made it harder to eat.
One thing I admire about New York is how the city embraces street food as integral to its culinary landscape as its abundant highly decorated Michelin-rated restaurants. ? And among the gajillion carts spread across almost every corner, the legendary Halal cart on 53rd and 6th appears to be the undisputed people's champion -- armed with its own website and over 2,000 yelp reviews with a solid 4.5 rating. ?You're probably more likely to see Paris Hilton win an Oscar than see this popular cart without a line that spans at least half the block. ?Their slogan is "We are different." ?Indeed. The line was so long, ?you would have thought Victoria Secret models were giving free blow...dryers. ?Thanks to yelp advice, I steered clear of impostors from several other corners wearing the same color shirts and made my way to the SE Corner of 53rd and 6th. Yes, the food was worth the wait (and the wait wasn't even that long). ?Cheap and good. ?The lamb plate was pretty fantastic. ?Though my yellow rice was a bit of a grease fest (it's still cart food after all), it was still very good. ?The lamb was nice and tender as well, but the star of the show was that delicious, highly palatable white sauce. ?Mix it up with the huge pile of yellow rice, meat and warm pita ready and, boom...GOT HEEM! ?If you're into hot, the hot sauce was hotter than hades' armpit. ?Overall, best $6 I've spent in New York. Don't worry about the oft-repeated "tourist trap" moniker. ?Most locals I've met rave about this cart, including my colleagues who took me here for lunch, satisfaction guaranteed. ?Anyway, for $6, you can afford to take that chance.
Yum... ? We stopped here after a night of bachelorette madness. To our luck, this place was right by the hotel we were staying at. The line was super long but moved quickly enough. I think we spent $6 on the chicken/lamb combo and we put a ton of the white and red sauce. You get a lot of food! We brought it to our hotel, and we were stopped outside our room with a faulty key. We were trying to decide whether to eat it right in the hallway when one of our friends was awakened from her slumber by merely the smell of the food and then let us in. Hahaha. She then proceeded to help us inhale it. Yeah it was good.
Literally flew back to NY from CA ?for a long weekend with this in my belly every day there wonderful
Over 2000 yelp reviews for a food cart should tell you something. ?Either a lot of new yorkers really wanna be elite or this isn't your normal street food place. ? I'd have to say this was by far the best street food I've had in the city. ?I went to college in Philadelphia where IMO they have the best street food carts(a.k.a. mobile kitchens) in the sates, and this place rivals some of the best street carts there. Is it worth standing in the crazy line that persists until the break of dawn, ?maybe. ?If you're smart you could try going in the daytime to avoid the hoard of drunken new yorkers that go there post boozing.
I had seen this business featured on a local news program, so my sis and I ventured to nyc to give it a whirl at 9pm on a saturday. There are 2. Go to the one located between 6th and 7th ave right ?across from the Hilton Hotel. Yes, the line was long as expected. Nothing impressive about the cart nor the cooks/servers.. But, the food was great! $6 gets you a large full container of lamb or chicken over yellow rice, fresh iceberg tomato salad with that superb white sauce drizzled on top. The white sauce is the star of the show indeed. They should bottle that stuff. I don't know why another reviewer called it ranch- its their version of tzatziki sauce. The lamb and chicken are tender and perfectly spiced. The rice is clean to the palate, ?not oily as yellow rice usually is. I met out-of-towners from PA, MD who drove to get their serving. I recommend a trip into NYC for this food. There are benches and ample seating areas a few feet away.
A minimum of 20 people were always waiting in line for this food. ?Tried it and loved it for only $6.
If I could take my money and appetite back from any food establishment in New York during my short stay there, I would chose the over-rated 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. It's good for a drunk or quick cheap meal. ?(They're open pretttty late) Here's the thing. ?IT'S NOT BAD. ?In fact, it's fairly decent. ?But there was so much ridiculous hype surrounding this small cart that I expected God's gift to come in that steaming hot tin container. ?Especially after waiting in that excruciating line for about a half hour... We ordered the chicken/beef mix. ?It was like an assembly line: ?Man with long beard takes your money and order. ?Two men on the grill; 1 man puttin the meat on tin plate, the other man, throwing the pita, rice and salad, another man to give you a top. ?Out you go to the line of condiments. ?White Sauce, BBQ, and the dreaded Hot Sauce We failed to heed the warning of it's fiery hellish hot sauce. ?This hot sauce shouldn't just have a warning sign-- it should have had pass code or some sort of chasity belt for those with wide eyes and confident stomachs. ?My boyfriend and I have zealous taste buds. ?We can also handle the wrath of spice-- chili spice, habanero, togarashi, even ghost chili... we can handle! ?*Fist Pump* ?Our Korean-Filipino blood seems to distinguish the fire of spice. ? The food was hot, temp wise and had a good portion, the white sauce was some sort of ranch dressing, and the lines were LONG. ? After our first try of the chicken-meat combo and spending the next morning in the bathroom, we couldn't believe that such a high-rated food establishment was so bad. ?So we ?tried the chicken the next day ?around, with JUST a side of hot sauce. ? We got nice and stoney, tried out the chicken plate and realized that it wasn't horrible anymore, but just... okay. If you are spending a lot of time in NYC, on the cheap, or drunk and hungry, try this place out. ?Just don't hype yourself up.
I tried this awhile back -- a few of my friends from school in NY constantly talk about how they miss "chicken and rice". I finally visited NYC and made sure that our group came here to try the food. It was such an ordeal - I think we walked 12 blocks to get here, it started raining and we had no umbrellas, and after we got our food we couldn't find anywhere to sit (we kept getting kicked out everywhere) so we ended up sitting under some ledge next to a building to hide from the rain. Plus I wasn't even hungry, so with all these factors combined I wouldn't have been surprised if I ended up giving them one star. But the food was incredible. This was my first time trying halal -- some of my friends who were with us said meh this tastes like every other halal cart in NY. I still really like it. and this is one hype that I agree with (usually when I have terribly high expectations, it does not end well).
When I'm on vacay, I rarely eat at the same place twice...this crack cart was definitely an exception. $6 gets you: a heavy dose of awesome long grain rice, topped with your choice of perfectly seasoned lamb or grilled chicken (or both) with 3 pieces of pita bread. Spread a gush of your sauce of choice. White sauce is a must as most people say. The red spicy one is not for the weak (I use a few dribbles and it's pretty spicy enough). All this in a to-go friendly dish/bowl and it comes to about 4 lbs of food. Came once at 10 pm on a weekday sober. Came again at 4 am on a weekend...not sober. Both times were equally amazing and glorious. This is now one of several can't miss eat spots whenever I'm in NYC. Damn you Halal cart for worsening my holiday weight gain.
Drunk hungry Alex manages to find himself here about 90% of the time I go out in NYC and it does't matter where I am. ?I must say on my most recent visit it had been a while since I had been here and I was on another level intoxicated. ? I almost/kind of did ruin our late night meal for a few of my friends. I convinced my buddy to drive a few of us here by offering to pay for everyone's food. ?For $6 a pop I ordered everyone a an aluminum tray loaded with chicken and rice. ? I had forgotten just how spicy the red sauce was and coated everyone's food with it. ?BIG MISTAKE!!! That is some spicy spicy spicy sauce. ?The first bite was like swallowing a fire ball (not the kids candy but an actual friggin fireball). ?While my friends probably wanted me dead at this point we still powered through it and came to tears while eating; partly because the food was so damn good but mostly because the level of spiciness legit made us tear up. ?The end result will likely be thousands of dollars in medical expenses to fix the damage I caused to my stomach from the spice and years of time to mend some friendships. ?Will it be worth it? ?Yes, most definitely. This is the best food cart in the streets of planet earth. ?If you are ever in New York city you should consider this a tourist destination and place a higher importance on the Halal Guys food cart then Times Square, Central Park, Rockefellar Center, Empire State Building, etc. ?Seriously this place is awesome. I am about to leave NYC and I already know Halal Guys is a must for a pit stop on my way out of the city even though it is completely out of my way.
We already had dinner but we had to check this place out. Long long line at 12 PM in the night, but great food. Hard to eat out though, during the winter at night. Definitely try, but with an empty stomach :)
Seriously. It's just as the signs say, best halal food in New York City. If you want halal food, come here. The meat's pretty amazing and their hot sauce is probably one of the best ones I have ever tasted.
The food was great even though a few things went wrong. I ordered chicken and lamb, but they only gave me lamb, and I was too drunk to notice until I was eating back at the apartment. I also put too much hot sauce, but it was still good. The workers are rude and pushy, but it's a food cart, so whatever. Line was long, like 30 people long. One day I will go back here and make sure I get the right thing.
This is the first lamb and rice I had in new york and they set the standard pretty high. ?Everytime I'm in the city, this is what I crave. ? ?I've had some other good ones and many bad ones around the city. ? I usually stick with the lamb. ?The chicken can be dry. ?There hot sauce is awesome. ?Freakin hot. Makes sriracha seem like ketchup. Been here close to 4am in the rain and there was still a line(always moves fast though).
Yes its friggin great. long lines suck tho and it allowed me to venture and found one at 49th and 6th that could possibly be even better. either way, 53rd is friggin awesome. they need these at every city in the country.
What more can I say than what the other 1524 people have said?! ?Seek it out... do whatever you must - but go and try this. ?It is truly a "must do" while in New York.
I must reiterate in case people didn't see my first review last year... this Halal cart is THE BEST in NYC. ?I would pay more than double the price for it if I had to. ?There's a reason this cart has more than 1500 reviews. ?Enough talking and reading, just try it and you will not be disappointed. ? BALLGAME!
Completely underwhelmed by the experience... been eating Halal food from carts for over a decade, though this was my first time here. Can honestly say that I've had waaaaaaay better in numerous other places... Food isn't bad, it just isn't better than the average cart out there. I had a rice, chicken and lamb platter...
4.5 stars. I love this cart! Granted, I haven't tried other halal carts for comparison, but given all the stellar reviews for this one and the never ending lines (even in the rain!), I don't think I ever want to. Though the last time I went (late night on a Thursday w/ my bf), I totally overdid it on the hot sauce... my bad. I didn't heed the sign that said, "Caution: very hot!" and ended up downing a whole bottle of water while eating my chicken & rice. Lesson learned! -L.
Midweek, around 8 pm, the line wasn't too bad and moved swiftly. ?Overheard conversation from commuters planning to take it to go all the way to Newark, though others were tucking into their meals in the dark on the steps of a nearby fountain. ?I strolled down 6th Avenue, intent on eating it at my hotel in Chelsea/Flower District but stopped at the triangle pocket park in front of Macy's Herald Square, the tables and chairs lit with the neon glow of billboards. ?Tucked into the lamb and rice platter -- lamb is savory and tender, the rice is orange (saffron?) colored, moist and flavorful and the creamy white sauce is good though I might prefer the garlicky "white sauce" of Zankou chicken in SoCal. ?The tiny container of hot sauce is nuclear, too hot for me! ?Ate half, and the remainder was a hearty meal of leftovers I shared with my husband a day later and he kept commenting about how good it was.
I was a street meat virgin and my philosophy for most things in life is to go big or go home so obviously this is the place I chose for my first venture into street meat! I came for lunch since my office is nearby and was pleasantly surprised to see that the line wasn't *too* long. I waited about 15 minutes and ordered my chicken and rice and told them I wanted the white sauce and a drop of the hot sauce to at least try it! Everything was delicious - and for $6 it is so much food; I couldn't finish it! Next time I would ask for another few drops of the hot sauce because the bites I had with it were so good; but be warned, it is pretty spicy! I am curious now to see if "all carts are the same" or if this one truly is the best. Stay tuned....
I'm glad that the Rapture didn't happen. If it did and I'm actually left here for 6 months of doom and gloom that's OK because I can still have this amazing food! ?Probably couldn't find this in heaven because in order to make it taste so good they probably made a pact with the Devil!
Can't help to wonder what these hypes are about. This particular Halal Cart is highly recommended by almost every single foodie friends that I trust. I have no choice but to place this on my must try list for my recent NYC trip. Got there around 10pm and the line is not too horrible. I have been warned of the super long line and was definitely expecting worse. The line moved rather quickly. In no more than 15 minutes I got my combo chicken and lamb over rice and was totally ready to feast. The meat definitely tasted much better than it looked. The lamb and chicken were both moist and tender but the lamb is better than the chicken in my opinion. With the help of those legendary white sauce, everything tasted great. Like many others have mentioned, you do need to overload it with the white sauce! Otherwise everything will seem dry and bland. The portion is very generous. The quality is great for street food standard but it is really no 5 stars mind-blowing exquisite meal. Fast, cheap and tasty. Halal Cart platter makes a perfect late night snack.
It was so good! Me and my friend went there in April and it was cold in the city and there was a ridiculous line! But it was worth waiting! love the white and spicy sauce!!!!!!!!! and the bread was good too
I love this place! There is no better way to end your late evening then standing in line behind tons of people and smelling the wonderful scents wafting over. The first time I found this place I had just finished a tasty meal in K-town but when I saw this place I was hungry all over again. I always get the chicken and rice and you could probably feed two people well with one order. The hot sauce is HOT but oh so good.
Best cart in the city. ?Hands down. ?Get a combo platter. ?It's fun to go drunk, and you'll meet interesting characters (or run into friends, as has happened to me) in line - which is always long but moves fast. ?I rarely do anything else that far uptown, but we never have qualms about taking the train up just to go here. It's good sober, too, by the way - if you're in the mood for cart food.
Are the Halal guys all f-ing business, yeah. ?Does the hot sauce make you cry, yeah. Was it extremely affordable at $6, hell yeah. ?Was it good/worth the wait in line, ?yeah. The food was good, but not the earth shattering meal I was expecting after over 1700 reviews. ?Seriously Yelpers, don't drink the Kool-Aid and post a positive review just cause everyone else did.
OMG! ? At first when I saw them dishing up my to go container I thought, there is no way I need that much rice, give me more meat, but little did I know I needed it. ?Dayam that red sauce is SPICY but good. ?I got the mixed plate and the lamb and chicken were both really well seasoned and moist. ?I should have asked for more white sauce on the side. ?If you can't handle a huge amount of spice, ask for it on the side and then add at your own will. This is the location you want to go to because it's so good! My local friend told me - if it smells good and there's a line, that's the one you want. ?Very good advice.
Bleh, this is a very mediocre food cart and I definitely wasn't even setting high expectations for this ever-so-famous spot. The chicken and lamb didn't have much flavor to it. The white sauce is essentially liquid mayonnaise which is just not my cup of tea. The hot sauce is super hot, as they warn, so it doesn't help to season it and give it more flavor. All in all, very uninspiring. Glad I went when the wait was only 10 min.
Such a great deal for street meat in NYC! I was here just last night and got the chicken and rice platter and it was so great! When you go, be sure to load up on the white sauce, and take it easy with the red sauce. The pita bread is also super good and compliments this dish. The line is usually 20-40 minutes, but I guess due to the hurricane warnings, nobody wanted to run the risk. But I feared not, and I was full and satisfied after my trip :).
I swear there is something in that white sauce. Keeps me coming back for more! Just came back from NY and am craving the chicken and rice plate already! Why don't they have stuff like this in California?? Ate this twice when I was in NY and am regretting not buying some and bringing it back with me lol. Portions are pretty big. I bought a whole thing for myself because I was starvin like marvin and could only get through half. Beware of the hot sauce. It is SPICY!! I didn't know and ate a big gulp of it. My mouth was burning for a good 15 minutes. But ah, I want some more. Gimme, gimme, gimme....
That this place has over 2,000 reviews is not shocking but what is is the 4.5* average!! One must question what is wrong with this world upon seeing this. This "place" (it's a cart--not a food truck, but the typical NYC food cart) was recommended to me by every single NYer friend of mine so after a friend and I had spent a good chunk of the day ransacking every inch of the newly opened global flagship location of Uniqlo nearby, we sauntered over to this street cart to find out what the fuss was all about and DAMN! So glad we did!! The lineup wasn't so bad when we arrived, though I have heard it can get crazy. There were hordes of people sitting just steps away chowing down out of their aluminum containers, looking very happy while we waited the few minutes to have our food thrown together. We both got the chicken with yoghurt & hot sauce and for $6, YOU CANNOT GO WRONG! Both of us are big eaters yet neither of us could get through more than half of the massive pile of food. The combination of textures (meat, rice, lettuce, tomato), flavours (spices, cool yoghurt and SPICY hot sauce), and temperatures was like heaven. And hallelujah praise the Lord for that wedge of pita because I needed something to stave off some of the heat of the hot sauce! Normally I can handle heat but this was totally unexpected. If you're not a fan of spicy, maybe ask them to go easy on the hot sauce but don't avoid it altogether (unless you have ulcers)--that would just be wrong and you'd be missing out on the full experience. Whether you're on a budget, broke from all the partying and shopping in NY, wasted and/or happen to be in the area, or looking for something unbelievably yummy to eat, like I said, you cannot go wrong with these guys--just be sure not to go to the wrong cart. I felt sorry for the guy nearby and wondered how different his stuff could be but not enough to find out, maybe next time (but probably not). I have no idea when they "open" but I've heard they're around until really, really late and that there are lineups at all hours of the day. Crazy! (BTW if anyone knows what nationality these guys are, I'd really like to know as I have never had Middle Eastern food that tasted anything like it here!)
Seems pointless for me to write a review when it's being averaged out by 2000+, but I just wanted to say... OHHHH MYYYYY GODDD, THE FOOD WAS SOOO GOOD. I never had anything hit the late night munchies so HARD and SO WELL. They need to bring this stuff to late night Los Angeles after people get trashed on Thursday clubbing nights. I can understand why they don't expand though. If they did, they would put all the late night Mexican taco stands to their knees and crying for mercy. None would be given as the Halal guys would probably spray the white sauce over their face. That's how much the Halal guys would dominate over late night food carts. For now, NYC will be their turf ***$6 for an aluminum pie tin FULL of MEAT, YELLOW RICE, ICEBURG LETTUCE, and 2 pieces of PITA BREAD ***I got the CHICKEN & LAMB over RICE and it was a great decision. ***It's a great deal on the food. You can feed 2 people or yourself twice from the portion. It looks like a decent size, but it fills you up quickly.
As far as halal food carts go, this takes the cake. You cannot ... CANNOT... find halal food this great, this fresh, this awesome anywhere else in NY. ?The lines might be long at times, but they move fast. ?The workers have a great system in place. ?It's definitely comfort food to the max. ?I usually have chicken and rice. ?The chicken is so juicy and tender and mashes up perfectly with the rice and white yogurt sauce. ?It's very difficult to finish a whole plate, but it's so good that you just do it! Sometimes I grab it to go and take it home to eat. ?It's still good (a bit cold though). ?Or there are many places to sit around that area. ?It's great especially on a summer night after watching a show! ?Head on over.... I'm getting hungry myself!
The Halal Cart makes for an awkward morning: a spectacular evening with the best of companies, a Herculean wait in a line that snakes around the world followed by the most satisfying food ever created by man. And in the morning, an undeniable sense of regret but no real effort to change anything the next time around. Words of advice: be aggressive with the white sauce: Hell is a plateful of chicken and rice and not enough white sauce; go easy on the red sauce: Hell is also an overwhelming amount of red sauce, especially in the morning; making friends with the people on line makes the wait so much easier; and don't be the douche that tries to buy his way to the front of the line.
If you tried any other halal cart, this will be you first and last, look no further! Often immitated but never duplicated! Very flavorful, and fresh, which is key, and the sauces! It's a must try if you are in the area.
when i saw the humongo line, i thought i was in line for the greatest thing in my mouth.. but i was greatly disappointed. i have had more tender, more flavorful meat and rice from other food carts. the yogurt sauce is not my fave and the hot sauce is just alright..
Finally! A joint in Manhattan that doesn't cost my left ball to eat. ?And the best part, its so damn good! I'm willing to bet these bastards put crack in that "white sauce". ?And the red sauce is literally volcanic, take enough of it in and you'll be loose stooled for the rest of the week. The rules are simple: 1. Get in line, its gonna be long but worth it. 2. Cash only, so get your cash ready. ?They plate up the food pretty quickly. 3. Order Combo, chicken or lamb. ?With or without salad. ? 4. Add on the crack sauce and go easy with the red. 5. Devour It's just one of those really really good comfort foods. ?Best when your drunk. ?But awesome when your not.
This is so delicious!! My mouth is salivating right now at midnight, while I'm far far away from the cart. This is really great halal, so great that whenever I work an event (catering) at the Hilton hotel across the street, I must stop here before going home. I've actually made this a tradition :) I'll start by saying that yes, the lines are sometimes long, but they do go very quickly. Next I will say that the value you get is amazing for the quality of food AND the quantity! The meat is oh so good, I want it right now. Why must I live so far? Or write this review so late? My order changes depending on mood, from chicken, to lamb, to combination! The chicken is always juicy and fresh without being over cooked. The lamb is prefect, with it's fatty meat flavor and also never dry. The combination is the best of both, if you mind not having a huge portion of one all to yourself. This leads to the portions, they are so large that two people can share one and be fully content after (expect for your taste buds screaming out for more) And p.s.- the white sauce rocks my world ;-D while the red sauce is so hot that it burns my insides, slightly ?~:-x
It is $6 for a meal that comes with a meat (chicken, lamb, or combo), rice, lettuce, and pita bread. The meat is chopped into tiny pieces so it is easier to eat on the go. The white sauce is good and the red sauce is spicy, so a mix of the two adds a depth of flavor to the food. The most annoying thing was the 4 men standing around asking for money at different times, one while walking to the cart, one while I was in line waiting, and two when I finished paying. They probably do pretty well with all the people lined up at the cart. The cart takes cash only and is only open at night. It is on the SOUTH WEST corner of 53rd and 6th. All the other carts are imitations.
How many 5 star reviews does this place need! I don't care where I am, if I'm in the mood for Gyro, I'm coming here or not eating Gyro. With the exception of being at the Jersey Shore, there's a decent place on 37. I go to this cart waaaay too many times in a year. I don't check in all the time either or it would b ridiculous.
Quick service, good food, generous portions, and great price ($6). The only reason why I didn't give this 5-stars is because I've had better chicken and rice, but for a food cart and the price, it's really quite unbeatable. Very easy to swing by and pick something delicious and filling to munch on that will hold you off for a while.
this place is fantastic! And as a quick update, if you work within a block or two he will give you free drinks to keep you coming back...what a businessperson!
Lamb and rice....holy crap!!!! ?Whenever the wife and I are in New York we eat at this place. ?The line can sometimes be long, but sure worth the wait. ?We stumbled on this place by accident and it has to be one of the best places to eat while in the city. ?The red sauce is on fire and the white sauce is fantastic. ?Do yourself a favor. listen to me and everyone else...53rd St and 6th Ave, Halal cart, right across from the Hilton!
Good drunk food if you're willing to wait on the line. $6 for a huge platter that's nearly impossible to finish at one sitting. They even have pre-packaged white sauce to take to go. Good Halal food, but not the best I've tried. If you want hot sauce, ask for it on the side. I love spicy food, but I was in tears half way through eating after I mixed the hot sauce in with the rice.
This is one of the BEST Halal carts in Manhattan. Think about it. Almost 2000 people decided that it was a good use of time to post a review on Yelp for a... ?food cart? ?Yes, and most of the reviews are 5 stars. Unfortunately, I live 2 hours away from this wonderful food cart. But, whenever I am in the city, I always try to get some food there. It's cheap. It's quick. It's delicious :)
as if this place needs yet ANOTHER review... great food, solid food truck. ?You know it's fresh because turnover is so high. ?good price. Too bad they can't do anything about that line.
In a city as diverse and overwhelming in its food options like NYC, sometimes the simplest pleasures come from a little street cart manned by some hard working folk, churning out plate after plate of chicken rice at lightning speed to hungry customers on the go. Ok, that wasn't *too* bad a leading opening. ?I've had several friends recommend I check out the famed halal chicken rice carts while in town, something adored by locals but oft unmentioned to most tourists. ?The only problem is...which cart? ?A quick search online reveals the locations of dozens of carts but rest assured, yelp reviews and knowledgable word of mouth will point towards one intersection: 53rd st and 6th. A sure way you can tell you're at the right spot is look for the men wearing the yellow t shirts that say 'those Halal Guys' and you don't have to worry about imitators. So what do you get for your money? ?Well for the low low price of $6, you have your choice of chicken & rice or a combination chicken, lamb & rice, each of which served with cabbage on the side and self serve toppings of their spicy red sauce and garlickly white sauce. ? The meat is a little bit dry on its own but with a combination of the various sauces for color and flavor, its easy to see why hundreds of hungry new yorkers stop by this cart for a quick lunch or dinner to go. ?I am glad I don't live or work near the block, because I could see myself going back repeatedly. Some advice, when you get to the intersection you'll see not one but 3 carts yet only see a line for one of them, don't worry they're all part of the same group and not imitators, I confirmed this with the main cart. ?So first timers, if you really feel that need to wait in the long line as proof of authenticity, go to the 'prime' cart, but if you don't feel like wasting your time, then go to a less crowded cart.
I've been craving that damn white sauce since I had it almost a week ago. The chicken is delicious, but the lamb is out of this world. Next time I'm in NYC (and yes I WILL return to this exact cart), I'll get the lamb platter instead of the combo. Little tip: pita bread, covered in white sauce, with lamb sprinkled on top = party in your mouth!! Cash only. Don't wait till the cart opens at 7:30...get there early and get in line!
a must have for every ny trip. chicken and rice with a nice heaping of the white and hot sauce. lines can get redic depending on what time you come but they are very good at moving people along. one order is plenty for at least 2 ppl to share, if not 3. we beat all by sharing it with 4 girls and we were waay full. the white sauce reminds me of tzatziki sauce but with a bit more sour cream. that hot sauce is delish but can get quite spicy (note to self - do not rub eyes after eating this). while a diet buster, best drunk food ever
this is definitely one of the better halal carts in the city. lamb and chicken over rice! I have been buying since this was $5 a platter, but it is still a good deal for $6. the guy allows me to get a free soda too... the line says it all...be careful with the hot sauce...it packs quite a punch.
This place isn't bad, but it's definitely overrated. Don't worry; you'll get your money's worth. ?There's a lot of food per plate, and the food is ok. ?But it's just ok. ?Neither the rice, lamb, nor chicken had much flavor. ?It was tender and the sauces were fine, but like I said, there wasn't much flavor. ?I've had much better at carts that no one talks about. If you're hungry, in the area, have cash, and there's not much of a line, go for it. ?If under any other circumstances, weigh your options. ?This place is definitely not the end-all be-all of anything, not even of halal food carts.
Came here from CA and this place was near the top of my list! It was fantastic, and what I love is that they aren't afraid to dish out the spice. It was the first meal I've had in a while that was even slightly spicy. I even ran into one of my best friends and randomly ran into a cousin from CA here! Just goes to show how popular this place is...a must try for anyone who has yet to!
For $6, you get one (or 2) full meals of chicken/lamb + rice with a white sauce that has crack in it. ?I am ADDICTED. ?Make sure you mix that white sauce all over it! ?A must-do, and it's good for any occasion, pre-drunk, post-drunk, lunch, dinner, breakfast, in-between ?snack, etc. ?I'm one of the idiots who follows the long lines even though there are multiple of the same carts around the 53rd & 6th corner :)
Here's my experience with The Halal Guys at 53rd and 6th by the numbers: 3: The number of nights (out of 4 that I spent in NY) that I enjoyed an inebriated meal just moments before climbing into bed. As you know, your body loves inhaling plates of greasy food right before falling asleep. 4: The average number of minutes I spent waiting in line, regardless of whether or not the line stretched 25-deep. These cats are as efficient as it gets, so don't fret if the queue looks intimidating. 5: The cost for each combo platter being slung off that street-side hot plate. You don't need me to tell you how expensive it is to eat/drink/party in New York, so it's a relief to have at least a single affordable meal. 8,046: Roughly the number of calories consumed by eating my three halal combo plates. Needless to say, these little buggers have no place on a Weight Watchers index. 2: Pounds heavier upon returning home to San Francisco. Was it worth it? Ab-so-lutely!
The line for the cart appeared to be thirty patrons deep at two in the morning. ?I've heard it can be much longer. ?As we hover along 53rd looking for a spot to nestle my buddy's SUV into, I have doubts if we would be able to procure their famed meat and rice before my ethanol-addled state would dissipate. ?Soberness giving way to rational decisions and thereby skipping what would be the fourth and surely most unneeded caloric-dense meal of the day. I must say, the line moved quicker than the total time walking to and from the car at the other end of the block. ?I'm sure this isn't always the case but there it was, five orders of meat and rice in an instant. ?Within the sealed vehicle the odor of onions, meat, and cumin waft from within the bag placed on the floor. ?Upon arrival of our final destination for the night, we tore into the bags and begun to splash inordinate amounts of both the red and the famed white sauces. ?They had given us one and half times the amount of sauces needed for our order. ?I was fortunate to have stopped at one container of red for, when I tasted a dab on my fork, it is surprisingly very hot. ?Nothing was quite as satisfying at the time as wolfing down about half and then slumber about. A day later, back in Philadelphia, I brought the rest with me to work. ?For lunch, I reheated the leftovers and began to eat. ?It's not quite as good as I thought; not as good as it was from that night. ?It just tastes like taco-seasoned meat on rice. ?The white sauce tasted of mayonnaise and garlic, little else. ?With its dreamy proximity to Time Square, the Halal cart perhaps has taken on being something of an institution. ?Maybe not as quite but, however, people from wherever (like myself) visit the city, take in different levels of inebriation, wander Times Square and then invariably, this cart. ?It all culminates in a familiar, yet satisfying, meal to end a first NYC night. ?It's worth a visit, albeit just not on your third or even second go-round this area of the city.
I don't understand all of the good reviews. It was NOT good at all!!!!
Very tasty, the white sauce is great and the red is very hot. I waited in line and the next morning saw virtually the same food at that cart. Not sure that I would wait again, but would definitely go back if the line was manageable.
Lived up to the hype Worth the wait So cheap Want some more Cant wait to go back I Love NEW YORK
i misssss my favorate food cart in the city!! i will go to have it during next week i promise!!!!
This place is awesome. If you want the real experience, hit it up when you're either starving or wasted. You're bound to think it's 5/5 stars. Bonus points if you go in the dead of winter during some sort of precipitation. Also, they real cart opens at 7:30 on the southwest corner of 53rd and 6th. If you're too drunk figure out your cardinality, just look for the huge-ass line of people. Here's the deal: The guys who run the cart don't like you, or anybody in the world. As soon as you say what you want, they'll snatch your money from your hand and stick it in their pockets. Its okay! Just take your food and go! Also, don't piss everyone off by wasting time. Know exactly what you want (chicken or lamb, and hot or white sauce or both) and have your money ready ($6). Just say something like "1 chicken, hot and white," and you're good to go. If it takes you more than 15 seconds from ordering to receiving, you've failed.
Everyone's favorite, but everyone's nightmare the next morning. Cheap, good food especially when intoxicated. Tricky whilst drunk, you get a little crazy with the red sauce. I always have to have some chicken and rice when visiting NYC, its a must. I can honestly say it tastes just as good the next day. My most recent encounter left me a bit pissed off. Just because I come and order at 3am does NOT mean I am drunk (ok, fine ... I was buzzed). The fool tried to short change me when I was getting water. I called him out and then he proceeded to speak his native tongue with this colleague. JERK!!!!!!
1. FOOD - Great! White sauce with the gyro/falafel is amazing! Make sure you get the sauce with it! 2. PRICE - Great! It's so reasonable! 3. SERVICE - Quick (once you get to the front of the line!) and friendly. 4. AMBIANCE - well, it's a cart, but that in itself is an experience to have, especially being from Ca!! Throughout our trip, we loved coming here because it was so convenient, especially for a midnight and really late night snack in NY! We would definitely go back once we're there!
The Best Food for the money, Especially for after ?hours after clubbing in NYC. ?Despite long lines, its worth the wait! ?People crave this stuff! Load it up with the white sauce- ?small dots on the red sauce
Totally worth the wait. ?Gyro sandwich with hot sauce and white sauce.
One of the most classic NY street foods. I used to be obsessed with getting this shitfaced in high school/college. Now I get it probably only 3 -5 times a year but it's definitely yummy drunk food. I always ask for lamb/chicken combo with extra white sauce, red sauce (cause I like it spicy), and pita. My sister is even more into chicken and rice than me and she has asked the guys on several occasions if she can get a matching yellow sweatshirt. black and yellow black and yellow
My god ...my mouth came before I even began to devour the delicious chicken and rice!! It was only $6 my friends! $6!!!!! The portion was very generous as well.You'd definitely be able to share with 1 other person and still be satisfied. It is so tasty with that white sauce. Beware of the red sauce. IM SERIOUS. It aint no Tobasco shit. My club-attire wearin ass was freezin that night but my mouth was on FIRE from that hot sauce. I used the hot sauce sparingly, but it really shouldn't be taken as a joke. I still enjoyed it nonetheless. My other friends made the mistake of drenching their plate with red sauce. Big mistake. ? I will definitely come back on my next visit to NYC. And the next time i visit, I will order an extra one as a carry-on item for my flight back to Cali. YEZZIR!
The best late night street food. Get the combo plate. It's lamb and chicken grilled and served with rice and lettuce. You can cover it in the white sauce (what really makes it delicious) and some hot sauce on the side of the cart. Careful, the hot sauce is pretty hot. The line can be long at times and it's always at the same single cart, although there are other similar carts around. You definitely get the freshest food at this cart since they're constantly turning out food while it might be sitting a little while at the other carts.
Ok. I'm gonna say this... and brace yourselves... With ALL do respect, as a born and raised Chicagoan I feel that all of the NY yelpers have deceived me just a LITTLE in what is considered "4 or 5" stars... Maybe I'm just used to a little bit better quality, (not to toot my own horn or anything) but I felt that this cart was just Good and nothing to really rave about to my friends.. I visted NYC a couple of weeks ago and relied HIGHLY on my research to find the best carts in NYC! We heard about this Halal Cart on yelp (beware of the fakes) and were thrilled to try their food! I got: the combination plate with chicken and lamb, served with traditional rice and 2 small slices of pita bread. (got the white sauce after I heard so much about it) The excitment all deminishes when you see all the mass produced chicken and lamb just constantly cooking out in the open.. all as they try to "clean" (sweeping crap, dust and old food into the air) as you are waiting to get some of the Halal cart goodness... yeah I was just a tab bit grossed out. Yes after a hungry day of riding the 6 train, I ate all of my food BUT it was eh... I've had better food from back home... The chicken and lamb are ground into bits and the combination plate came with no other additives or veggies that could have given the dry meat more favor and pizzaz... The white sauce was my Savior! I drowned my plate into a soppy wet meat mixture which I found bearable. (BEWARE: the hot sauce is hot!!) The food is cheap.. but does that mean we forsake a little quality? NOPE! Hey I love cheap food and I know where to get it! but don't tell me that I have to settle for this.. com' on NYC! you gotta come harder than this!!
Amazing. The combo platter from this place is the tastiest, manliest meal you can have for $6 in NYC. No frou-frou sh*t here. Just well-seasoned meat on a fluffy bed of rice drowned in a delicious white sauce. It's as if David Beckham (the manliest guy in the world) shot magic all up in my mouth. Yes, that good. Also, yeshetero. Random tips: 1) I love spicy food as much as anyone I know (to the extreme, I'll drink bottles of 500K+ Scoville unit 'designer' hot sauces for fun), but don't overdo it on the red sauce. You want to fully taste how good these plates are. 2) Even if you don't like lamb, go for the combo platter. I usually think lamb tastes like a weird mix of flowers, gamey-ness, and meat, but it's well done here and the chicken alone does seem like it'd be a touch bland. 3) Lastly, some cabbie told me that you can jump the primary line by telling these dudes you're in the 'cab line.' Normally, I would dismiss this, but this cab driver's name was also Leo, so he must be awesome/telling the truth.
you don't have to have a fancy white tablecloth to get a five star rating for me. ?listen, this place is a must try if you come to NYC. when you get to the SE corner, you will see several carts serving 'halal' and it may confuse you as to which one to eat at. it's easy, find the one with the line down the block, at all hours of the day. oh but it goes by pretty fast, and if it doesn't, it's worth the wait. the portions are gigantic and if you order the combo rice plate you get 1/2 chicken, 1/2 lamb and beef gyros served on a bed of rice topped with yogurt and spicy sauce. be careful with the spicy sauce (even those who love heat), because a little goes a long way. regardless, you will cry from the heat of the sauce, or the happiness you feel from eating this delicious meal. oh right, and theres some lettuce hanging out on the side. i was in NY for 4 days and i came here twice. and i was contemplating taking a plate to eat at the airport. ? and i am flying back in a couple months just so i can eat more. fast service, clean as a cart can be, and portions big enough to feed 3 people. EAT HERE.
This is it folks... the epitome of street food. This stuff is pretty much amazing. ?So amazing I had to save what I didn't finish and eat it the next morning... it was still bomb. ?Go here for the best food you will ever get for 6 dollars. ? Having heard of this place from multiple friends who had visited NYC I went towards the carts late at night and went to the cart with the longer line as I was advised to. The line moved along quite quickly and it was my turn to order. ?I asked for the mix plate and the guy who was taking my order, without even turning his head, said in a very quiet almost whispering voice "mix combo". ?I thought it was a question back to me to clarify my order so I said it again and as soon as I finished saying it I had the plate in my hands. ?The guy taking orders was talking to the guy shoveling out food behind him... how the guy behind him heard in all that noise is beyond me. So anyways I went in the back and loaded up on the white sauce, and used the red sauce sparingly. ?Biting into it was probably one of the most satisfying gastronomical experiences in my life. The meat didn't look too appetizing but oh it truly was. ?I was sad that I had left this to the last night of being in the city, ?but I will be back soon halal cart... I'll be back soon...
I think the whole Wisdom of Crowds thing has broken down into plain old groupthink here. ? I'm no cart connoisseur, but, folks, seriously: it's cart food. ?Chicken, lamb, rice, a tenth of a tomato, some sauce. ?It's fine, but it's not going to make you cream your pants. (And for what it's worth, Biryani Cart down on 46th and 6th, and Fahima Halal on 45th, are much more interesting, and feel like they have higher-quality ingredients. ?They're not open 24/7, though.)
You may be confused with the name of the cart as there are TWO halal carts always parked at 53rd and 6th, both carts have the same menu, prices, long lines, and yellow shirts. The one this listing is for is the one whose umbrella has two websites listed on it (53rdand6th.com and TheHalalGuys.com) and their logo is a shawarma. They actually have three carts now and I was told they all taste the same by the guy running the busy cart (though no one was in line for the other two). One was parked at 6th and 52nd, the other was at 53rd and 7th. The other non related cart has an apple as a logo. I've now been to both carts for a comparison. I got the combo platter sans salad (which is a dumb filler anyway). For those not familiar with your typical Halal combo platter it's yellow rice topped with 1/2 lamb and 1/2 chicken which are seasoned and chopped up. Then they throw in a couple little pieces of pita and you can choose to top the platter with white, hot, and/or BBQ sauce. What's exactly in the famous white sauce? Well I'm glad you asked. Well the base is a heavy mayo (I asked) mixed with a special blend of seasonings. For $6 you get ?2+ pounds of food, it really should be split between a couple people but I made a pig of myself and ate the whole thing (I don't condone doing that by the way). Neither cart actually had shawarma on the spit, despite being on the menu (and even on the logo of the official cart). It's ok because everyone comes for the combo plate anyway. The "real" cart had better service, was nicer, and had their white/hot sauces in containers if you wanted them on the side. Surprisingly though I enjoyed the food at the imposters across the street. Where as the "real" cart had lamb cut up so much it was almost ground lamb, the guys across the street had lamb that wasn't cut up as much and was more tender and juicy. The chicken was a little more juicy there as well. As that cart seems to have just as much of a following but no listing on Yelp I'm going to say they deserve 4 stars and the "halal guys" should be closer to 3 stars.
I was just reading the reviews and I just got really hungry ... I think thats how good this place is
Yes. Go Here. That's all you need to know. Vegetarian? I don't care. You need this in your mouth. If you're hungry after a tour of 30 Rock or meandering throught the MoMA or you're just plain ravenous, go to this halal cart. You'll get a full meal that is amazingly delicious. Plus, I think a lot of the major food groups are offered in one aluminum tin. You get some pita bread, rice, meat, veggies, and that curious white jizz sauce that really makes it complete. My friends and I have always contemplated stealing that bottle of white jizzy goodness and analyzing it to see what it is really, but alas, part of the amazingness is the mystery of what is really in that delicious delicious delicious sauce. Plus, it's cheap! The last time I went it was...I wanna say 6:50 or 7 bucks? Still cheap for a meal that can serve two or have lots of leftovers or a meal that will fill you to the brim until you're close to puking. There's plenty of outdoor seating and the line attracts a good mix of locals and tourists and the dressed up and the casual and the drunken and the sober and the douches and the awesomes. The people who run the cart seem really great, too. They sponsored a fundraiser at NYU to support the tsunami relief in Japan and gave lots of free food. Awesome! You need to try this. You just gotta.
One Friday night, my friend and I decided to stay in to watch movies. ?Around 4AM, we were bored & hungry. ?We both got excited over Halal and took a cab there to grab a late night/early morning snack. ?One of the many perks of living in a city that never sleeps. Chicken & lamb over rice please!!!!! Beware of the red sauce because it is crazy spicy so don't pour it all over your dish! ?I don't know what it is about this cart but the rice is made perfectly along with the chicken & lamb. ? Oh, what its like to be young and not have to worry about eating heavy carbs so late. ?Damn you youth, I miss you.
This Halal Cart gets 5 stars just for the experience itself. ?Where else can you find drunken clubbers/men still in suits/tourists waiting in a long line in the middle of the morning for chicken and rice?! The cart is not even located in an a clubbing or bar area, but right outside a large bank. The city never ceases to amaze me of its quirks. Some of the most delicious things I have ever eaten are cheap and just plain unhealthy. Chicken and rice from this place is definitely on the top of my list. Arrive there at least a little inebriated. Pile on the white sauce and gorge. For a few minutes, your whole world will be that styrofoam container in front of you.
I don't have much to say since everyone has spoken for me! Awesome. Good. Cheap. There was more food then I can finish! They have 2 carts. One on each side of the street. My bf was making fun of the people who were in the long line that stretched the entire street while we went to the shorter line on the other side, it's the same company people!
We were in town for a "Broadway Show and Shopping" trip in April. For three days we walked by this cart ?- that had the most amazing smells coming from it. On our last night there I suggested we cancel our dinner reservation - grab an appetizer in the bar before the show - and then stop at the Halal cart after the show. It was so amazing! The taste totally lived up to the aroma. The hot sauce is HOT. I can't wait to get back to NYC again. Forget the NY hotdog - this is where it's at!!
Overrated. The white sauce is great, but you have to make sure to get enough of it (or extra). ?And then you want to barf because you think of how unhealthy this food is for you. ?Definitely get the (very) hot spicy red sauce. ?I'd recommend getting it on the side for those who aren't too fond of spicy. ?I got the lamb and chicken combo - preferred the lamb over the chicken, which was a tad bit on the dry side. ?I wish the chicken and lamb came in bigger pieces though. Definitely not a place you would go to more than.... once a month.
After hearing so many people talk about this place for years, I finally got to try it last week. It definitely lived up to all the hype. I wish there was a place in LA that serves this.
They occupy both corners, 53rd and 6th (SW corner) as well as the northwest corner of 52nd and 6th.... big line at the other one? Glance down the block and see how the line is at the other corner. If the line is crazy..... well as nuts as I am for food, I'm not sure I'd wait forever. But that's why they have two carts... Lamb plate is delicious. If you can handle hot, get half white and half red sauce; if not, just go easy on the hot sauce. Six bucks for a very good sized lamb (or combo) plate complete with warmed, toasty pita? All mine. NOM! Apparently this is as good as it gets, and having had this on both coasts and multiple countries... yep. This is good stuff. The other tip-- eat it quick if you can. We walked down to Rockefeller Center hoping to eat in the courtyard, but it was filled up with a big tent for a special event. That delayed our eating for a few long minutes, which is far too long to have to wait!
Not to be a spoilsport, but I've tried this cart under many conditions, drunk and sober, and it just isn't that good. ? Last night, after a Radiohead show at Roseland, there was NO line for this cart so I thought, eh, might as well give it another shot. ?Normally I'd get the chicken/lamb combo, but since everyone calls it the "chicken and rice cart," I thought I should order... the chicken and rice. ?Big mistake. ?I got the white sauce to go and sprinkled on some of that incendiary hot sauce, but from the first bite, it was pure disappointment. ?No flavor! ?Just the mayo-ey flavor from the white sauce and the burn from the tiny droplets of hot sauce. ?The lamb makes the whole dish "better" because it's the only element with flavor. After numerous attempts, I have yet to find reason for the hype over this cart. ?Sad; I'd love to love it. ?But I think it's just good when you're completely drunk... because everything is good when you're completely drunk. Tip: watch out for the vomit puddles around the fountain.
Great street food! I'm from California and any time I come to NY I make at least one stop here!
Line was long, but hubby insisted we eat here because of all the glowing reviews. ?The line moved pretty quickly and the prices were pretty cheap, I'll give them that. ? Tried the combo plate (lamb and chicken). ?The chicken was very tasty and flavorful, the lamb was bland. ?Everyone loves the white sauce, but I thought it was basically mayo. ?They only give you two tiny slivers of pita. My opinion: just your basic, run of the mill food cart. ?Nothing special to warrant all of these 5 star reviews.
OOOOOMMMMMMGGG!!!! Once you have this, you will long for your next visit!! I LOVE THIS CART!! There is always a line and the line is long but worth the wait.. All I can say is try the Lamb and Rice with White Sauce.. ($6)-don't want to spoil your visit.. and don't fall for the fakes!! it is the one in front of the Hilton!!
This is the place to go if you want to get THE chicken and rice. OK fine. I haven't had any of the others. But if you're in NY for only a few days and can risk only one cart, go to this one. Despite the line full of tourists like you and me. Just do it! Be careful of the red sauce. It's spicy, and that's an understatement. Theories have been floating that there are a different group of guys in the same spot after 9pm, and they make it better than if you go earlier in the day. I went around 5pm and was greatly satisfied, but just for kicks, I would definitely try to get there in the night hours.
Delicious. ?Ate here the first time based on Yelp recommendation. ?The second time based on my own recommendation. ?White sauce combo platter. ?The red sauce is ridiculously hot. ?Heed the advice and don't do the red unless you're a fire eater.
Ah, chicken and rice. When I had you the first time, I was full and didn't fully appreciate you. This time, I waited in a 10 minute line in the snow ?to enjoy you. I took you home back on the upper west to enjoy, and you delivered. I didn't give you a five because even though you are the comfort food everyone raves about, something about you failed to be THE ultimate comfort food. And something about your hype and you just barely falling below it makes me less inclined to give you the five that you rightly deserve from most (drunk) people. Advice that everyone else gives and is worth re-Yelping. 1) red sauce is spicy, even for those who can handle the spice. Make sure you use more white than red. Even if your a hot food wimp, you should ?include a few drops of the red. 2) There are other carts owned by the same company in the same area (1 block away). The one listed at this location always has a long line, even in snow. If they're up (we went around 7:30, so the other carts were just setting up), you should definitely go to the other ones instead. There's no difference in quality. 3) Bring cash, $6 for the plate, $4 for the sandwich.
This place was awesome. I was concerned about not getting something from here because, based on Yelp reviews, it was only a late night place and not in the are awe were staying. You my surprise, they were open at lunch and the company as multiple locations. The cart operator was friendly and made great small talk with those waiting for the food. My falafel "gyro" was amazing. Spicy, but not overwhelming. The flavors were fresh and full. The meal (what little I got... my wife took one bite and took over the "gyro") stayed with me for quite awhile without being too heavy. They had a good selection of "gyros" and different plates and would make a meat-eater or vegetarian happy. This a street food must in New York.
Oh how I long for chicken and rice........drool. Why can't I find this in LA?!!! If anyone knows where I can get something like this, PLEASE msg me!!!! I got to this truck some time during the evening and the line wasn't too bad..about 10 people in front of us? The whole time I was thinking to myself..how great can it be..it's just chicken and rice........ I ordered the regular chicken and rice plate with the white sauce. Thank GOD i didn't get the spicy sauce because my friends said it was really spicy (she asked for just a little too). Without the spiciness, I basically inhaled the plate!! Such simple ingredients..but so DELICIOUS!! What is this white sauce?! I'm so sad I can't get some here in LA.........If I had a jet plane, I'd totally hope on it and fly myself to NY just for this. YES, THAT GOOD!
What can I say that hasn't already been said in over 1700 reviews? This place is the bomb! ?Every time there are visitors coming to see me in NYC, this is a MUST. ?Everything there is awesome! Just on a side note: I had to freeze a combo platter because my eyes were bigger than my stomach and I ordered way too much. ?I froze the white sauce too. ?Bad decision...but anyway, when I dethawed it, the white sauce was straight up oil (shudder!!!) and did not resemble any of the yummy, creamy goodness it is when you get it fresh off the cart. So..the food here is amazing, but (duh) meant to be eaten real time. ?Don't attempt to delay food gratification by freezing!
It's true! The line and the reviews...the food lives up to the hype! For $6 (combo plate), you get a hugeeee amount of food (rice, pita, salad and scoops and scoops of lamb and chicken). Personally, the lamb was my favorite and yes, lather on that white sauce. Hot damn, this shit was legit! The line was about 15 people long when I went, but it moves really fast. Also, their drink cart is a few feet away if you're in need of a beverage. Lots of "seating" (on the fountain, some benches) around so you chow down right there. NOM
their food was good but not WOW...i prefer the lamb rather than the chicken..the smell of the lamb is also not that strong which is good..use the white sauce so the taste will be good... CONCLUSION = RECOMMENDED!!
This place is good, but I giggle every time I hear (or read) people raving about the white sauce. It's just mayonnaise! I asked one of the cooks what was in it, and he replied, "Mayonnaise." I proceeded to ask if there were spices in it, and he told me, "Just salt and pepper." Anyways, I'm not a huge fan of this "white sauce". I think other places often use yogurt-based, lighter sauces. But you serve it yourself, so just don't take too much at first. Same goes for the red, spicy sauce. The chicken platter has pretty big pieces of chicken, so I appreciate that. But the lamb is just ground lamb. So disappointing. [Kwik Meal has real pieces of lamb, so go there if you are a lamb person. They also have delicious falafel pitas. I am a Kwik Meal fan, if you couldn't tell] I'll give them that their portions are huge, so you definitely get more than your money's worth. Everything is ~$6.
Most epic cart-food ever. Just look for a long line and you've come to the right place. I've been going here since my freshman year (that's 5 years) and I keep coming back! It's the perfect combo of meat and rice. The line is long as expected but moves fast. There's always something funny going on with the amount of drunk people/tourists/college students that pile up in line so don't worry about being bored. When you get up front, have your order in mind or you'll hold everyone up. There's an intense, almost telepathic communication between the guys at the front who make your food and don't even think about breathing, just place your order and brace yourself! I would suggest getting the lamb and chicken combo if you're in for an experience. Do NOT put too much red sauce on it (trust me, I'm Indian and I like spicy food but this is way too strong). As other's have suggested- the white sauce is heavenly so knock yourself out. bottom line: why are you still reading this? Go get in line!
I don't see what the fuss is all about.... I mean, its good food, but 5 stars and the long line for this? ?its good and cheap, but not 5 star material, its like giving a big mac 5 stars...
Don't believe the hype. ? Located in possibly my least favorite area in Manhattan. ?Swarmed by tourists and corporate trash, I waited on line for about twenty minutes at about 5:30pm on an early Friday evening. ? Listening to people's benign conversations in front and in back of me. ?Thinking...how long does it takes to slop some rice and meat onto a plate? ? The pigeons were swarming and eating the filth left behind by the truck's patrons...their ample grains of rice, random halal paraphernalia and leftover soda cans adorning the outside of the soulless office building next to the truck. As I got closer, it appeared everybody was ordering the same thing (the chicken and lamb combo). ?I didn't see one person get a gyro. ?I didn't even see a menu. ?It was like a high school cafeteria...you show up and they're gonna plop whatever they want to on your plate. ?Any communication with the "cooks" operating this cart was met with utter disdain. ?There were no smiles, no hospitality, no nothing. ?If you asked for an extra fork, it was like asking them to sacrifice their youngest child to a pack of wild hyenas. ?Seriously. ?I would have expected greater courtesy from a McDonald's. I got my container of food and had to go back into the line in order to add the sauces. ?Seemed like the thing to do because of the very dry appearance of the food. ? Something I found very bizarre: Why would you have the sauces right in the middle of the line where all the customers are? ?I managed to sauce up my heap of food without any altercation, but I can imagine it could lead to awkward situations. ?Why wouldn't you put the sauces on the side of the truck? ?Why were there dirty (from people's greasy hands) squeeze bottles of sauce only filled up 1/3 of the way. I'll save the sauce review for a little later. Upon first glance of the food...eh. ?It's not the most beautiful collection of food product ever put together (but not all good food is). ?The chicken looked like it was just hacked to pieces. ?I can see shredded chicken or maybe diced chicken, but this just a bunch of meat hacked up like they don't even care. ?Same goes for the lamb. ?The lamb had no texture, no flavor - none of the nuances of lamb. ?You're not sinking your teeth into anything here. ? The rice was actually not so bad. ?Nice color. ?The saffron flavor came through. ?Cooked nicely. The lettuce and "pita" were rather unremarkable elements of the plate. The sauces. ?I tried the white sauce...nothing labeled, nothing explained. ?Is it yogurt? ?Is it mayo? ?Something made with sour cream? Thankfully, I know about middle eastern food and I know it is some generic white sauce. ?Totally bland. ?Will maybe give an added richness to the dish. ? There was a BBQ style sauce...not quite sure exactly what it was, but it wasn't bad. ?Sweet and tangy. ?It actually gave some flavor to an otherwise unflavorful dish. ? I really like hot sauce, but I didn't even know it was there because nothing was labeled. ?It just looked like a bunch of red sauces all together. ? For the money, I have no qualms about this place. ?I just can't believe that people are so blinded by the hype behind this truck. ?I believe if you're one of these sheep that give this place a great review, you either don't know what good middle eastern food is or you are totally brainwashed by this mass hysteria regarding this places food (or you have no palate). ?Take your pick. ? I used to live in area that was very heavily populated with muslims. ?There were all types of halal restaurants. ?Real halal/real middle eastern/whatever you wanna call it has real flavor. ?You taste the deep spices. ?The fresh herbs. ?Meat that isn't cook to sh*t and isn't chopped up into dog food. ?There is so much soul in middle eastern halal food and this place has none of it. ? I liked my food trucks more when these "foodies" didn't hype everything up. ?Gives a bad name to REAL street food.
As if the 2000+ reviews on here aren't indication enough, this place is a king amongst kings. ?I remember before I visited, my initial thought was "it can't be THAT good." ?My friends, it is THAT good. ? My primary experience is with the mixed platter, which includes both gyro and chicken. ? Both of the meats were juicy, delicious, and contained a good amount of spice. ?Probably the best case of culinary jungle fever/ebony and ivory you could possible imagine. ?This was complemented by some soft and delicious rice that made everything eerily easy to consume. ? And I haven't even gotten to one of the essential parts of the dish. ?As a free spirited girl at a frat party would say: "It's all about the white sauce." ?My friends, the white sauce here is like crack. ?I literally dabbled it on for ever bite of my meal. ?And if you want spice, I suggest you dabble some red sauce while you're at it. ?The red sauce is 100% legit; definitely not your politically correct spicy where it's almost likely to tickle your grandmother's tongue. ?I got a little over anxious with the red stuff and had a good amount of mouth burn. ?Well played Halal Guys. Overall, worth the trip; so much so I went twice in one day. ?Don't judge me
no contest
I thought this was supposed to be run by the same guys who did 53rd and 6th. Went here last weekend after some drunken debauchery and was actually pretty disappointed with the mix platter (chicken and lamb). The meat was indistinguishable mush and lacked any flavor apart from the sauces I liberally topped it off with. Not worth the 20 minute wait.
Working in the area, this place is always busy and always fresh. ?Compared to all the other food carts, Halal Guys are waaay better than everyone else. ?Taste is great and sauces are incredible.
I give it 4 stars because it's only good when I'm drunk. Anytime I went here in a sober state it wasn't that good. Just becareful when you sit on the fountain area-that's really not a seat- and the red sauce. Too much red sauce will ruin the taste but load up as much as you can on the white sauce.
Drunk, sober, tipsy, or buzzed, the Halal Cart is amazing. I'm going to make this short because typing about this makes me want to go downstairs and heat up my leftovers from the other night. Bottom Line: Cheap huge portions lives up to the hype always open multiple locations try the chicken, but get the lamb don't be gentle with the white sauce..make sure that gets everywhere
I ordered the chicken plate which was served with flavored rice and iceberg lettuce. ?There's also an option to squirt some white and red sauce. ?I believe the red sauce is sriracha. ?Someone ahead of me highly recommended the white sauce. ?She squirted a generous about of white sauce all over her plate and I regretfully did the same. ?I thought the shredded chicken tasted dry but I loved the rice. ?Not exactly sure what the creamy white sauce consisted of but I definitely was not a fan. ?Maybe I was too sober to eat here? ?Definitely do not recommend it.
for once, this is not over hyped. ?whatever amazing things you hear about this particular halal cart is TRUE. ?i have to say many halal carts in the city can depend on their white sauce and/or hot sauce to cover the mediocrity of their rice and meat. ?there is a reason why this cart in particular is so much more famous than the rest- there IS a difference!!! here, for the same price of $6, you can get quality, super delicious food that stands on its own. ?i do recommend, however, that you do use their awesome white sauce. ?you add the sauce yourself and the hot sauce is SUPER hot so be careful. ? so far, i have been incredibly lucky to wander upon the cart and not have to wait more than 20 minutes. ?the line moves pretty quick because they seriously crank out that food in an assembly line. ?but i feel that even if i have to wait an hour in the rain, it would be worth it, it is THAT good.
First thing I had on the street in new york because every time I passed by it there is always a crowd of patient customers waiting in line for the food. I see people in the hotel eating it for lunch as well. It was really good. I had the combo, a nypd recommended it to me.
Would I wait 30 minutes in line for just chicken and rice? Hell yes for 53rd and 6th. Definitely best street food in NYC after midnight. They say the meat here is better. I must say, it is more tender and seasoned a lot better than the other chicken and rices I've had elsewhere. The little tray you get is even bigger than the other places. They throw in pita bread for good measure. White sauce is the shiz. Just don't go too crazy.. haha. I've actually become quite fond of the bbq sauce as it does add a good bit of flavor. I would actually personally stay away from the hot sauce. Too hot to handle.
This is by far the best Halal spot / cart in all of NYC and possibly the world. The line speaks for it's self. I've been eating here for years as back as High School, and everybody I have ever taken here has become easily addicted. The quantity, the price, the speed, the sauces. ?For $6.00 you eat like Kings, and Queens. The Hot sauce is no joke, and the BBQ sauce is nice and sweet. The White sauce is authentic Halal. HALAL!!!!!!! For the people who are too impatient to wait... let um get diarrhea from another halal cart. And it's always fun to have people who have never been there try the hot sauce for the first time. Just make sure to have your camera ready.
It was easy to distinguish this food cart from other food carts because of the long line in front of it. It was very affordable, quick and delicious. The spicy sauce was indeed spicy. I'd recommend bringing something smoothing to drink / neutralize it if you indeed to be liberal with the application.
If you're visiting New York and happen to come across this cart, the first thing that comes to mind might be: TOURIST TRAP! My first impression was, "WHOA! Steer clear." Street food has a reputation amongst sane tourists as being less trustworthy than establishment food, and the bright colors and greasy grill were...alarming. However, when I got on my computer and searched the cart up on Yelp, my mind changed instantly. HOLY COW, 4.5 STARS. It didn't disappoint. The Food- 5 Stars. Lamb and Chicken Combo- Bomb. The grill, however greasy, gives the meat a wonderful smoky flavor. Being the naive consumer that I was, I doused my plate with 5 full containers of red sauce. By the time I finished the plate, my mouth was on FIRE. The white sauce has a kick to it while imparting a delicious, creamy flavor. The Service- 4.5 Stars. While not extraordinary friendly, the service was speedy and accurate on the orders. This is now my New York lunch standby.
WOWzers. this place is good!! i think we almost went on O.D on it.. lol and that white sauce... what the hell is that cuz it's soo good!! if they only had this in L.A. this would bank especially after those drunks nights when your soooo hungry after. we get tired of norms too ya know.. Lunch is good too, you feel the hustle and bustle of NYC while eating on the street.
Fantastic!
It wasn't even 12 yet and my cousin's bf was already hyping up the chicken & rice. ?I tried to not let him hype it up too much since I didn't want to set it all up for disappointment. ?But the night went on, we all had a great time out. ?Eventually, we decided to call it a night and head to spot for some chicken & rice to end the night. After waiting in line about 5 mins (not bad from the stories I've heard), ?we're rewarded with the treasure haha! ?Make sure you add some white sauce. ?Words cannot even sum up the goodness of this 4th meal. ?So I'll just say that YOU MUST stop by this corner to get your own experience if you live in or are visiting NYC!!! ?My cousin's bf even told me that he had to stop there while sober to confirm how good it was...and it was. ?And don't be too lazy/shy to run back up to the side of the cart to get some extra white sauce (I swear it's just ranch though).
Ohmygosh. This place is so so so so so good! My friends always get this whenever they go visit New York. I was really surprised that the line didn't take so long. I mean, usually food cart/truck lines take forever to wait in but I was in line for a max of 15 mins. These guys are really fast! i was in the longer line because I was first confused at what I was doing, but they have 2 carts and they're both the same thing. I remember my friend telling me this before I left for the cart, but i was so excited I guess I forgot. But anyways, this placei s probably the best comfort food in the world! I remembered when on my friend took his first bite, he honestly was silent and just kept on eating. There's something about that chicken and rice that's indescriblble. I love the hot sauce that you can ask on the side. It's kind of spicy so pour only half, otherwise it'll distort the taste a little. When you come here, you should buy more than 1 for yourself! You can put the other ones in the fridge and simply heat it up for tomorrow or the next day or the next. It's that good! It won't taste bad if you reheat!! :D I recommend!OHMYGOSH. delish..
I've had halal food in the city since the early 90's at at least a dozen carts. I tried this famous cart to see what all the hype was and found out exactly that, it was all hype. WAYYY OVERRATED. It tasted no different than the cart at the corner of street I live at in the city. I also didn't have to wait 30 minutes for a gyro. To wait 20-30 people deep for this average tasting gyro is the most absurd thing anyone can do when looking for good Halal food in the city, but to each it's own. The chicken gyro was pretty good, but it's way overhyped. I'm not saying, they're all the same, but this place is far from the best. I would have given it a higher rating had the food been the best testing of all the ones I've had. It's just average.
Chicken & Rice is the king of late night eats, particularly after you've had one of those nights of juvenile, teenage irresponsibility. This is one of those rare, great deals you find in the city. For only $6, you can have it all-- yelllow rice, pita bread, grilled meat (chicken/lamb/both), creamy white sauce, lettuce. Not only are the portions large, your most base needs will be fulfilled- a hunger for meat, a taste for something oily and creamy, and a desire to be sated. And if that's not enough, their hot sauce is a 10/10 on the hotness scale. C&R, I wish I knew how to quit you. P.S. do NOT get the hot sauce in your eye.
Look for.the yellow bags. Order lamb over rice and watch it with the hot sauce... Ok its really hot and I love hot.
Out late? Check. Drunk? Check. Have a hankering for the best Halal food in NYC? Check. If the 2000 people before me didn't already convince you, then... there isn't really much I can say to change that. The food comes out piping hot and pretty quickly. I got the Chicken and Rice at the urging of my friend. The meat was so juicy and delicious, and chock full of flavor. It goes great with a covering of white sauce. BEWARE however. My friends and I didn't know that the red sauce is dangerously spicy. So I covered my rice in it, expecting it to have a bbq-esque taste. DAMN, I was SO wrong. And I paid for it. The entire cab ride home to my friend's apartment was spent in sniffles. The three of us must have seemed the most miserable people the driver saw that night. We basically sat in the backseat half- crying our eyes out from the spice, and half- laughing at our mistake.
it was a blistery winters night. I was tired from a long days work and seconds from stepping underground to catch my train home. my foodie friend texts me. "53rd and 6th. 30 minutes. bring your belly." he knows i'm far too weak to ignore any message pertaining to food. we met up and walked down to 53rd and 6th. i scanned the area for the secluded gastropub... ... ..."hold up, wait, i KNOW you didnt drag me out here for this fucking halal cart." "i knew there wouldn't be a line right now dude!! beware the devil sauce man." grumbling, i ordered the lamb and rice. we ate outside in the cold. i can do heat and i was cold, so i did not beware the devil sauce... mistake, BEWARE THE DEVIL SAUCE. that said, what an awesome meal! cheap. tasty. causes cravings. what more could you ask for. give them a try.
This meal hit the spot after a winter storm. Despite the cold, the hot plate warmed my hands. The Halal Guys offer 1) lamb 2) chicken 3) combination with warm pita bread, rice, and iceberg lettuce. My dish seemed to have half a chicken (sans bones) in it. Great buy for your money. Tender chicken. The tahini sauce was mild and complemented the meat and rice. It helped me shovel down the very hot sauce. I can usually tolerate a lot, ?but I needed water after a bite with the sauce. I'm glad I visited around 2pm, when the line was four people long.
AHHH love this place, i wish i could freaken go here everyday, but its in ny... so every time i come here, i try to stop by for some chicken and rice. wow the line is constantly long, even when i stop by there usually at 3 am. just say its to go so you can get the containers for the sauces. madddddd good
The combination (lamb & chicken) platter is amazing with both the white & hot sauce. I HAVE to get this whenever I am in NYC. I was in NYC last week for Christmas. It was cold and windy but the weather did not deter me from waiting in line to get a platter. It's always worth the wait. Mmm.. Mmmmmm....Mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm...
Finding a bargain in the city is scarce but these guys def have the recipe. Dont let the long line make you stray, these guys are quick to serve and keep the line moving well no matter what time. At $6 a plate, there's nothing that can beat these guys. The rice is what makes it what it is. Im an eater and find it hard to finish the serving they provide, not because its not good, but the fact that they give you a HUGE serving! Def check them out if youre in the times sq/rockerfeller ctr/radio city area!
This place is awful! If you like cheap meat that looks like disgusting filler than this is perfect. Their falafel is cold and soggy, rice is hard and tastes like soap, and pita is chewy and doughy. Their sauce is a disgusting imitation of ranch full of mayo. Their hot sauce is nothing special either. I'm sure this place is perfect for someone who's completely wasted and needs a quick fix but that's it! Biggest waste of money ever.
After all the hype I WANTED to LOVE it. ? We stood in line on a drizzly Wednesday night after a show - the line was about 8 people deep when we got there just before midnight, but increased to 20+ in the 10 or so minutes we waited. We had the chicken and lamb on rice, and as instructed by experienced customers of this cart, doused the food with white sauce and a squirt of red sauce on the side. ?Mixed up the rice, meat and white sauce, added a dab of the red sauce and ate........and it was AVERAGE :(((((( Chicken and lamb were not particularly spiced or flavourful (though the salt levels were fine). ?White sauce tasted like runny mayo. ?The rice was nice and fluffy though. ?And the red sauce lived up to our heat expectations (predominantly cayenne pepper based?). ?However, fluffy rice, average chicken/lamb, mayo and spicy hot sauce does not an incredible food experience make. ?:( ?So sad.
The best street food in nyc! Chicken snd rice is all you have to say. Get the combo platter and put on as much white sauce as possible, and spend an extra dollar and get extra pita bread Their are actually 2 carts at the 53rd and 6th location. People often say that the cart ?next to the hilton (its the one with the longer line) is better and different to the one across the street but they are the SAME THING! People just think its better because they go through more food faster than the other cart, which results in fresher and more hot platter. Also because you get slightly more food, because they are working so fast. Gotta go here
45-minutes of waiting in brisk, cold air and I still give this "Chicken + Rice" cart 5-stars because it just tastes so d*mn good! ?I watched in awe as people ahead of us poured an inch of their white sauce onto their platters, but you really do need to pour that stuff on heavy because it is amazing. ? It is a great deal and you get a LOT of food. ?My favorite is their combo platter (chicken & lamb), but their falafel is quite good too. ?Service is very quick and efficient, once they take your order, they have you ready to go within 5 minutes. ? Make sure you are near a bathroom because this stuff goes right through ya. ?Just bein' real.
Was in NY last April, for two weeks. Partook in the combo plate, three times. Trust me, I can throw down, but was never able to finish the meal in one sitting. The value is incredible for the cost... which looks like it may have went up since last year... Nevertheless, I'll be back in that long ass line real soon! Try the red and white sauce too.
Cheap! Cheap! and super delicious!! ?Never fails. i only get the chicken gyro and i love it.....$4 bucks
If you're on the loooong line, do the NYer thing and go across 6th Ave where there's a similar looking cart (or two) and a line waaay smaller. They're the same cart - and this one usually makes the food to sustain the "main line." They even have carts on 7th Ave now. When coming in the warmer months, be weary of the white sauce. While it is delicious and a must have on your mixed plate over rice - ANYTHING yogurt based should not be allowed to vegetate all day beside the heat of the main grill. It's what the food-safety experts refer to as "potentially hazardous." ?Trust me, your bowels will be thankful for this tip later. Other than that! Bring your drunken self over and F E A S T.
Every time i come here there's always a long line about a 15 minute wait, but its worth every minute. I'm used to paying 5 dollars for chicken over rice but that extra dollar goes a long stomach filling way. If you love hot sauce, they have the hottest ever. Everyone warns you not to put too much, but i didn't listen. It may not be a nice restaurant with seats, but great halal stand If they were to open a restaurant, business would soar through the roof
BOMB.COM The end.
Alex S. is a bastard for not crediting the guy who introduced him to this masterpiece, and then taking credit for the 2500th review :) First of all, the reported hours are wrong, I recently had it as my last meal in NYC before hopping on the E train back to the airport, around 2pm. ?I think the demand is so great now that it's open essentially all day. Secondly, because of its proximity to the E train, it should be YOUR last meal in NYC as well, because it keeps amazingly well. ?If I had a bigger suitcase I'd buy about 20 plates and keep them in my freezer for whenever I missed New York. I would buy 25 but there is a large bottle of Absolut that takes up a lot of real estate. Enough ranting more about the food, and my latent alcoholism. $6 for the basic combo plate of chicken and lamb, although you can get plates of only one meat or the other, and there are sandwiches and falafels as well. The meat is some of the most tender I've had, street food-wise. I asked for a sample of the lamb for my friend, who typically avoids lamb for the "gamey", bitter taste...and he LOVED it. ?Rice is perfectly prepared, not too dry, not too soggy. The white sauce is hands down the best out of about 5 different street meat trucks' I've tried, all from overwhelming positive reviews. The red sauce is actually not the hottest I've had, but that's great because it doesn't overpower the taste of the meat. ?A few pieces of pita bread comes for free. The best part is that, although it is a lot of food, it doesn't feel oily, greasy, or heavy, which makes it a good late-night bite, sober or not. Pretty central location- unless you are in the outer boroughs the cab ride to 53rd and 6th Av is not too expensive, and the subway ride isn't too long. ?The clientele is a pretty nice balance between locals and tourists, and the halal guys themselves are to-the-point, but friendly. ?The area is also nice- on a weekend, when the office buildings are closed, there are lots of steps and plazas where you can sit and enjoy this meal. Do yourself a favor.
I don't live in New York, so when anyone says "New York," or I entertain any possibility of going there, I immediately think of this food cart. It really is unforgettable for its price point. Add a lot of white sauce and hot sauce for a food experience you will never forget. :]
Incredible. The white sauce and hot sauce drenched over a pile of halal meat, rice and veggies... I can almost taste it! First time I was there was back in 2007 en route to Japan - had very awkward layover (something weird like from 9:00pm to 6:30am) at JFK and figured I'd go into town, go hook up with a friend, catch a midnight showing near my old stomping grounds and grab some food. My friend asked if I ever had food from this stand, and when I told him no he was almost outraged. I think it was around 10:30 at night when I rolled into the city. I figured we'd have enough time to catch a movie and a couple of drinks and food then head to the airport and catch a short nap in JFK and board the plane. So before heading over to the theatre, my friend recommended I grab one of these bad boys before the movie since the lineup was unsually short (maybe 10 people?). Boy, was I impressed! As a matter of fact, I was so stoked on this platter of goodness that I headed back there around quarter to 4 in the morning to grab round 2 a.k.a. breakfast of champions. Got back on the train, eating this beast without a care in the world and arrived at JFK just in time for my flight. Ended up not catching any sleep but it was well worth it: Best time I had for a layover. Now, I am seriously disappointed in myself that I decided to re hash these memories because now live 2,800+ miles away and it would end up being a very expensive chicken and rice platter for me if I were to go back just for this. Hoepfully I will be back in New York soon enough for other reasons in addition to this place
If I ever leave NYC, this will be one of the places I miss the most. I've never had street meat before moving here, and I don't think my life will ever be the same without it. I also don't eat from any other carts because they just don't live up to what you get here! I get the chicken and rice (or the chicken and lamb and rice) for $6. It comes with a few pita breads and some veggies on top. The white sauce and hot sauce are SO good. Don't be fooled by the hot sauce - I typically load up my food with hot sauce but this stuff is actually REALLY hot so you really don't want to liberally pile it on unless you want to be in tears while you're eating this. (And yes, in case you're wondering, this happens to me quite often.) Actually, I always get really bad stomach aches the next day after eating this (probably from the hot sauce...) but it's SO worth it and I still come back time and time again. Despite all of the indigestion issues, I still give this place FIVE STARS. That's how good it is! ABSOLUTELY AMAZING!! This is a place you MUST try!
The food is always good. Well worth waiting in line for.
Pretty great late night/drunk food. ?Great price, great taste! I don't understand why people always wait in the long line when the food is the SAME across the street (West side cart is always more crowded than East cart). ? I'm not a huge fan of the white sauce, but the food tastes great with the BBQ Sauce! BEWARE THE HOT SAUCE IS REALLLLYYY SPICYYY!!!!!!!!!
Drafting before eating! I just want to say that the smell itself is intoxicating! Had to wait in line for ten mins which had been the same length all day long, speaks for the popularity of this food cart. Finishing up after the meal(couldn't draft while eating...2 messy thumbs up) just barely managed to hold off on dumping a ridiculous amount of their famous hot sauce. I can say with confidence that this is the place to go for cheap great tasting food(on my black list for unhealthy though). The balance between the chicken rice and lettuce just works plus the hot sauce and their cream based white sauce provide the right kick to cap off the dish! Will definitely return, but not for a while, my arteries will not be able to handle the shock for a while. If you're dieting be well aware that this will shoot your entire day down into cheat territory =D
Shut up and get in line.
First and foremost, this meal had to be the deal of the century. $6!? ?Seriously? ?I don't even know if I can get a happy meal for $6! Anyways, on to the food. ?I was a bit confused about which Halal cart is the right one, so I looked for the one with the biggest crowd (what I later learned is that "The Halal Guys" is not a food cart chain throughout NYC...umm...can we bring this to the west coast?). ?I took a couple of photos and ordered the Chicken and Rice. The smell coming from this place was astounding and I was ready to dig in. ?Slather on that delicious yogurt/crack sauce they have and use the hot sauce sparingly (it's pretty hot). ?Took my first bite and a few seconds later (ok maybe a minute) my plate was clean. ?I couldn't stop eating it, it was that delicious. No time to savior food when you're addicted. I'm sitting here in California craving that chicken and rice I had because, I'll admit, I'm an addict. ?Seriously $6 for that meal?!...that's a steal! ?Stop by and be an addict with me :D.
The Once Great Halal Cart Their food quality has gone down hill. Their chicken and rice used to be so good but I feel like it got greasier and saltier. Maybe, my Asian palate just can't handle the grease unless super tipsy. After eating an aluminum plate of this, I feel overwhelmingly burdened and gross. Oh, and they get really annoyed at you for asking for extra sauce. Is it my fault I like the pain from the heat of their famous hot sauce? I would definitely recommend Sammy's Halal for a healthier option with less sodium and grease and whole lot more love. I love me some Sammy's! It's high-class halal for sure.
This place lives up to the hype. I can't say much to add to the rest of the reviews, only that your NYC trip is not complete without coming here. Also, be careful with the red sauce. 1-2 of the little containers is enough, and I love spicy food!
If you have time to kill and are also starving, go here. The chicken and gyro plate was huge and delicious-- I'd say the chicken was actually better. ?Great pita bread too. Like everyone else has said, load up on the white sauce and go extremely easy on the red-- unless you want to burn your taste buds off.
This place is WONDERFUL! I can eat the chicken and rice every day. The best comfort food ever! The white sauce is delicious so get extra. The hot sauce is SUPER SPICY... you only need half of one unless you want to burn your tongue off. The best $7 I have spent in a long time.
YUM!
ZOMG.. I LOVE YOU and I will learn how to make you one of these days! get a rice plate.. combo or gyro or chicken or whatever. if you're lucky like me you'll miss the horrendous line. add at least 2 layers of that white sauce... drool.. I wonder if it's mayo based. and the hot sauce is really HOT. a lil goes too far so keep that in mind. I've seen heat lovers cry because they did not heed the warning to all that the HOT sauce here is HOOOOT! I'm drooling writing this review! ;D
I planned my MOMA trip around this food cart. Yes I am an avid lover of all things delicious and am a dedicated sampler of all good foods. ?$6 will buy you a lot of chicken and rice. ?It is basic and delicious. A MUST TRY.
HOW DO YOU DO IT HALAL GUYS!!!! It's chopped-grilled chicken served over a bed of rice with a side of lettuce. Some white sauce and some hot sauce, and you have one of my most favorite food money can buy! Forget all the fancy pretentious food with a hefty price tag. Cheap, quick, fast, and dirty is where it is at! And the Halal guys will do you just for that! (oops that sounds weird). The chicken is tender and moist, the rice is soft and warm, the hot sauce will kick you like a Bruce Lee round house, and the white sauce holds it all together like a happy family. 'Nuff-said.
A little haiku for the Halal Guys. Gyro or chicken, all good. Late night grub for cheap. Red sauce. Good in, painful out. When it doubt as to which is the right cart, go with the one in front of the Hilton hotel. It's the one with the longer lines. Love the yogurt sauce but that damn hot sauce is what makes it so damn good. Or maybe my tongue and taste buds are just damn inflamed and numb that I can't tell whether or not it's that good or that I'm just too damn delirious to notice.
$6 for Chicken over Rice that I can barely finish? THAT'S SUCH A GOOD DEAL IN NY!!! I really wish there was one in DC. I'd go out of my way for it, and would go again when I go back up to NY. We waited for about 10 minutes around... 11am? (whenever the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade ended), which is really not bad, all considering. My mouth was salivating as I watched them prepare all the food. Said yes to the white sauce, and asked for only a little bit of the spicy sauce, which I'm glad because it really packs a punch. Wish I'd actually asked for more sauce because I got to the part where I only have rice left, and that wasn't awesome on its own. Overall, so good! Like I said, amazing deal for filling food.
Every time I visit New York, I must stop by the halal cart. When I went with a few friends to visit NY in April we had to stop by here and get some chicken and rice. We came out in the pouring rain just to get some. I got all soaked but it was well worth it once i took my first bite. This is by far the best midnight drunken food that I crave. It's inexpensive and only costs about $6 for a pretty big portion. I love the chicken and rice and make sure you ask them for extra WHITE sauce and HOT sauce ^_^ I'm drooling just writing this review. Yums!
Do not let the line intimidate you: 1. These guys are efficient in their craft and move fast! 2. It's an opportunity to spend quality time with your present company. 3. It is so worth the wait. Regarding reason #3, you have to try one of the platter dishes if this is your first time. I'm a big fan of lamb so I went with the gyro platter. So much food! Not just carbs but lots of meat and sauce. Beware of the red sauce! It is spicier than it looks. I'm shivering from the winter cold; yet, I am sweating from the spiciness. A strange feeling but the flavors from the dish are well worth it. Every time I visit NYC, I will always attempt to trek over here--rain or shine.
The food here is amazing. So are the workers--always quick and friendly. Tonight, I scored some flirty banter with an employee, who gave me one of their awesome tote bags for free. And I love the bag. These guys really know how to hustle a good Yelp score! =P Seriously though, the food. Oh my god, the food. Totally swoon-worthy.
Sometimes I wake up in the middle of night, short of breath, cursing 'why why why can't I be in Manhattan right now' to have a plate full of heaven. It just doesn't taste as good in my dreams... I need the real thing. I need to be there. If i had more (or any) money, I would fly to NYC now and march to this truck. Of all the places I have tried in Manhattan, all the glamorous and ritzy fine dining, all the traditional and authentic Japanese sushi, all the desserts and snack specialty spots, nothing compared to the animalistic guilty pleasure that is devouring a plate of lamb and chicken with the amazing white sauce. This begs a philosophical question: why is dining civilized? Why do we dress up in fancy clothes and eat neatly crafted yet fulfilling food? Why do we pay so much money for meals some writer recommended in a travel magazine? To eat is to survive, so why doll it up in some aesthetic experience that at times, compromises pure taste? If the greatest tasting food came in ugly clumps, plopped onto a tinfoil tray, served on a corner next to a Hilton hotel, would you care? If it's lack of artistic qualities fails to be presentable for your painstakingly created tumblr blog, would it affect it's taste for you? If you didn't have to dress up, pick up your date from her house, and be served by a fancy waiter with a bottle of champagne tucked under arm, would the food not be worthwhile for you? Taste comes before all in food. Think of the other senses as marketing ploys that draw you to the food, but always remember what is most important. Eat here. Yay: amazing food for cheap, open late boo: no credit card taken, can't send their food to me in Los Angeles
Man, this stuff is good. ? I've had this place bookmarked for quite awhile now and I'm in that area often, but for some reason never stopped by. ?I was missing out big time! I was fortunate enough to arrive when there were only 4-5 people in line, unlike the legendary lines** I've heard about on here. ?While in line, one of the workers came by and gave everyone in line one of those reusable shopping bags with their name on it...don't know if that's a common practice but it was nice since we were carrying a bunch of stuff around with us. ?The short line moved quickly, there are 4 people working the cart, but I would have stood there for much longer smelling that delicious smell and being stunned by the gigantic piles of meat on the flat top. ?Food cart heaven. And then of course, the best part, eating that delicious pile of meat and rice. ?like I said, Man, this stuff is good. ?I'm sure if you've stumbled across this review, you've already read somewhere else that the white sauce is great...no lies there. ?Just pour it on. ?Be careful with the hot sauce though, it's a bit more powerful than you might expect. ?I love my spicy foods, but just be warned, its not the tobascoesque sauce you will get at other carts/restaurants. ? I can't wait to go back. Tonight sounds good. **There are at least 2 other carts in the immediate area with guys wearing the same shirts...can anyone confirm that the food is the same from these? Because there was absolutely no lines at them.
Addicted! I've never been so addicted to anything so much in my life. When I move out of Manhattan I'm going to need Halal rehab. What pisses me off is that I lived in New York for 7 months before I gave it try, and now my life has never been the same since. How can shredded chicken, rice and iceburg lettuce taste so frickin' amazing!! Ohhh yeah, TONS of white sauce mixed with the hout sauce. That stuff is pure fire. I love the spicest of spicy food and this stuff is killer. But you HAVE to have it. Just use in moderation. When it comes to the white sauce, excess isn't enough. My mouth waters every time Halal food enters my mind and I just have to have it. The extremes I have gone to for this street meat include but are not limited to walking 15 minutes out of my way alone in the rain, waiting in a 20 min line in 35 degree weather with wind chill in only a light sweater, hundreds of dollars by now on cab rides/subway rides, leaving my friends at club to wait in a 30 min line, and the list goes on. My life won't be the same without it. I love you Halal Guys.
Wish I had read the reviews here before trying this place; would have saved my mouth from burning from the hot sauce. He put just the smallest amount of it on my platter but boy was it potent! My friend said her cousin always raves about this place so we tried it. The line wasn't very long and moved rather quickly. The employees were friendly and accommodating. Really good food and a lot of it. I couldn't even eat 1/3 of it at lunch - going to eat the rest for dinner. A real great deal for $6.
Never had a bad taste from this place....always good....always satisfying.....and you bet there's always a line.......Usually orders the lamb with rice.. and just found out yesterday that the chicken is actually pretty good too....definitely gotta get this when you're in the city...cheap..simple....tasty....goes better with alcohol......what more can you ask for? seriously, tell me....what?
Can't really say anything that already hasn't been said. It's just that anything you get is effin amazing. *Just one piece of advice: Be careful about what sauces you use. My sis and cousin put some random red sauce all over their food and they were burnin' up like the lake of fire. But they still ate it all up! LOL
This was so delicious and I don't know why. ?I didn't try any other carts. We got one combo with rice and extra lettuce. ?It feed three people! ?This is a place I would recommend and return when I go back to ny.
Worth the wait every time. Don't question it. Not much else to say that hasn't been said in the previous couple thousand reviews... but listen to everyone on the red sauce, a little goes a long way!
For the first time ever, I feel my fellow Yelpers have let me down. Perhaps my expectations were too high. Well, certainly, anyone would expect a good meal (even for greasy street meat) when 2,650+ reviews yields an overall 4.5 star rating! I wasn't expecting the world, nor glitter-specked unicorn meat covered in a golden magical sauce. but I was expecting something that would blow my mind just slightly. All I got was undercooked yellow rice, limp iceberg lettuce, unappetizingly greasy gyro, lukewarm and questionable white sauce, and a nauseating stomachache that has not gone away for close to two hours. I'm wicked pissed. Honestly. Booo. My dear halal cart owners on 69th and York could teach these folks a lesson or two...
Definitely delicious, and incredibly affordable, but I just wasn't wowed the way I'd hoped I would be. People put the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart on a pedestal, and perhaps it belongs there (I haven't tried any of the other Halal stands in the city), but on its own merits, the famed food truck is merely very good.
get the combo, this place never lets me down late night for 6 bucks, besides my assh0le being on fire after eating the hot sauce
It's really hard to beat what they have going here. You can't get as simple and tasty as chicken and rice (or lamb), with the price they ask ($6), at the speed they serve it. I had chicken and rice, and the following night lamb and rice. At 3 am, they had a line that was probably 100 feet long, but you would never know it based on how fast they serve the food. We got through the line in probably less then 10 minutes. Now the food absolutely hits the spot, especially when it's late and you're craving some grub. Depending on how hungry you are, you could share the $6 meal with someone else. It is pretty filling. IMO, lamb is much better, and it's the same price as the chicken. On the side of the truck are 2 sauce bottles, white bottle and a red bottle. The white bottle sauce (which is like a sour cream/ranch mixture) makes the meal. Douse your food with the white. If you can take fast, intense hot, then go for the red bottle. I can take some hot, but this hot was instantaneous and I was begging for mercy. I just poured my white to combat the red.
6 bucks for 5000 calories? This is seriously one of the best deals in all of NY haha. I have yet to try any other halal carts so I really have nothing to compare it too so as for now this is my holy grail. I always get the lamb and rice and douse it in the yogurt sauce since I find the chicken to be hella dry. A few bites in and I'm immediately in heaven and the sauce has absorbed into the meat & rice and another sauce trip is needed. And then about halfway through you feel your arteries clogging and you slow down and wonder how in the hell you were able to eat that much oil-laden food so quickly. The little bit of lettuce they put in there adds some texture change I guess and I do enjoy it with the yogurt sauce. Overall, a must stop if you're ever in NYC.
Get in line! Spectacular flavors, simple, tasty and one of the owners even gave us a souvenir bags. Ask for extra meat and mix the hot and white sauce together on the rice. ?incredible flavors. ?It was conveniently located across from the Hilton Midtown.
I'm always skeptical about hyped-up places like the Halal Cart. They always seem to never live up to the hype; HOWEVER, HC definitely lived up to the hype! On my trip to NYC, I ate at the Halal Cart twice! ?The first time I got the chicken over rice and the second I got the combo: chicken and beef. ?I prefer the chicken and beef because they give you so much, that chicken alone gets boring! You get A LOT of food, it's not a bad idea to share an order between two people. Word of warning: the red sauce is VERY spicy, so be sure to taste it first before drenching your food in it!
Oddly this good is really great food for the price. If it was a dollar more it would be one star less. Service is fast, and the line moves well. There is also a lot of food as well. I give this points based on value. Also the cart across the street is exactly the same!
I'm finally writing a review of this place after being a devoted follower for the past 6 years. This is one of the few things I miss about moving away from the NYC area. Accept no imitation folks since this is the only halal food cart in manhattan where you have a long line rain or shine or minus 6 degree with your snot freezing....but it's so worth it. Ok, in case you're wondering I've had these tasty bits sober and it was equally orgasmic!
On top of serving great tasting made to order halal food, they are open late, late, late @ night. They're exactly what the doctors ordered ?after a night of dancing and partying in the big city. Their food is like pho, it helps soak the alcohol and gives you a second boost of energy. I was in NYC for NYE last year and my brother made a point to drag me out here as I had to walk in my 4 inch heels for 12 blocks! As you can see, a gal probably would not have found this place worth the walk, but surprisingly after the long walk and long wait in line (yes @ 3am in the morning) in the cold, I found the place to be incredibly delicious! The lamb and chicken topped with their sauces had me wanting more! Hail to 53rd & 6th Halal Cart! Please bring your cart to DC! Please!!!!???!!!!
How can anybody not like this? Oh you probably poured too much red sauce and made your plate unedible. Cheap drunk food, quickly made and perfectly spiced. I've tried recreating this dish, and I'm getting pretty close.
Being vegetarian I'm only eating them based on the falafel over rice. (my boyfriend assures me his mix combo of chicken and beef was tasty). This is one of the worst!! falafels I've ever had. Now...I might not be the foremost authority on falafels, but I have most definitely earned some stripes on this topic. I have enjoyed falafel all over the world and nothing will every match the single best falafel word which I had in Beirut. But I also don't expect them to because there are so many great variations on falafels every where. In fact, while it isn't hard to screw up falafels, it certainly takes some work. Would never ever wait for a falafel here. Just not worth it at all. I get that they are open late for a bite after the bars and clubs, but get something or go somewhere else.
On my trip to New York between 12/30-1/3, I was on a mission to figure out which Halal Cart served THE "Meat & Rice w/White Sauce" plate that was truly worthy of the calories. I tried variations of "Chicken Rice w/White Sauce" & "Combo Rice w/White Sauce" at no less than SIX places. They're listed below in order of my likeliness of returning. NOTE: I always ask for EXTRA WHITE SAUCE & RED SAUCE both on top & on the side. ______________________ #1. 49TH & 6TH HALAL FOOD TRUCK (49th St at 6th Ave, across Radio City Music Hall) - 5/5* ? ? *** Flavor: 5/5 - Really tasty! ? ? *** Spiciness: 4.5/5 ? ? *** Price: $6 for Combo Rice ? ? *** Portion: 2x of #4, #5, Slightly More than #3, Similar to #2 ? ? *** Speed: PiL= 6 / ToA to ToO = 10mins / ToO to ToR = Less than 5mins ? ? *** Staff: 2 People (1 to Cook/Reheat, 1 to Plate/Sauce/Pack) #2. KWIK MEAL (45th St at 6th Ave, by Citibank across Room-Mate Grace) - 4.5/5* ? ? *** Flavor: 4.5/5 ? ? *** Spiciness: 4/5 ? ? *** Price: $12 for Combo Rice (Was $6 a year ago, went there on 1/1, so that might've contributed to the price increase.) ? ? *** Portion: Biggest of all, 2.5x the Portion of #4, #5, Slightly More than #1 ? ? *** Speed: PiL= 1 / ToA to ToO = 3mins+ / ToO to ToR = +/-5mins ? ? *** Staff: 1 Person ---------- NOTE: Really good Green Sauce. Ask for extra of that, too. Also, I learned during this trip that Bobby Flay won the falafel throwdown after his lesson with the guy from Kwik Meal. Accepts Credit Cards. #3. THE HALAL GUYS (53rd St at 6th Ave, by statue across Hilton) ?- 4/5* ? ? *** Flavor: 4/5 ? ? *** Spiciness: 5/5 ? ? *** Price: $6 for Combo Rice w/Pita ? ? *** Portion: Slightly less food than #1, #2 ? ? *** Speed: PiL= 0 / ToA to ToO = 2mins / ToO to ToR = 2mins ? ? *** Staff: 3 People (2 to Cook/Reheat, 1 to Plate/Sauce/Pack) ---------- NOTE: It was freezing cold, hence the lack of patrons at 10pm. That could've contributed to diminished flavor, or their recipe's changed a bit & people aren't such big fans anymore. #4. HALAL CART (Wall St at Water St, by the AT&T & Sprint) - 3/5* ? ? *** Flavor: 3/5 - Bland w/2x the White Sauce & Equal Amt of Red Sauce as #2 ? ? *** Spiciness: 3/5 ? ? *** Price: $5 for Chicken Rice ? ? *** Portion: 1/2 the Portion of #1, #2, #3 ? ? *** Speed: PiL= 2 / ToA to ToO = 5mins / ToO to ToR = 5mins ? ? *** Staff: 1 Person ---------- NOTE: The guy behind the counter had a really warm smile. #5. HALAL CART (Gouverneur St at Water St, next to Duane Reade) - 3/5* ? ? *** Flavor: 3/5 - Bland w/2x the White Sauce & Equal Amt of Red Sauce as #2 ? ? *** Spiciness: 2/5 ? ? *** Price: $5 for Combo Rice ? ? *** Portion: 1/2 the Portion of #1, #2, #3 ? ? *** Speed: PiL= 2 / ToA to ToO = 10mins+ / ToO to ToR = 15mins+ ? ? *** Staff: 1 Person ---------- NOTE: They took much longer than the others, but the lamb did not come from a doner/vertical spit & was very soft & juicy compared to the other places I tried. ________________________ GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS: PiL: People in Line Before Me ToA: Time of Arrival ToO: Time of Order ToR: Time of Receiving Plate ToC: Time of Consumption ________________________
My friends saw the yelp review and then we wanted to give it a try. But to our disappointment it was just average food and worst service. The guy with whom I gave $6 for chicken rice refused to acknowledge that I gave him money. The bystanders came for my help and told him that he indeed had taken money from me. It was really a humiliating experience. So when you buy next, please be careful with the guy who collects your money! ? Its just over hyped here on yelp!
Good street food with good potion. Love the hot sauce, but pick a spot to ?eat can be difficult.
Great late night drunk food. Even better leftovers. I like to OD on the white sauce.
A NYC trip wouldn't be complete without the obligatory visit to the Halal Cart. ?The food is pretty much the same as I remember it to be, but I made the mistake of going overboard with the red sauce in my inebriated state. ?It was not the best decision I ever made in my life, to say the least. ?These guys must be doing real well as they expanded and even took over the drink cart that's nearby.
VERY good. ?Got the combo plate. ?The chicken was a bit bland, but with the white sauce was yummy. ?The lamb was DELISH! ?Next time I'm doing the lamb plate! ?Great street food at a great price.
What can you say that hasn't already been said. ?One of the best Halal carts in the city with one huge downside - the line is always WAY too long at the main cart. ?Is it worth the wait? ?No. ?BUT... Just head across the street to the SE corner and you'll find the SAME deliciousness with 1/4 the line. ?Awesomesauce!
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeepppppiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiicccccccccccc?ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc
On my trip to NY, I needed to know what this food truck hype was all about. ?I always see falafel trucks around the financial district here in SF, and since everyone's been telling me that this truck is THE truck to go to, I really wanted to try it right when I got here! Walking distance from our hotel, and boy was I excited to have found them! ?No line...weird, but I think we just beat the lunch rush. I could've smelled the meats cooking on the grill as I was walking up to them. ?They were so nice and kind that they offered to take pictures with us. ?Anyways, food was great! ?Large portion and tasty meats! ?We got the combo with chicken and lamb, but I think I still prefer the chicken over lamb. ? It was hot and juicy, and tasted great along with the white and red sauce they served on top. ?The red sauce was reallllly spicy, but got a good kick to this cold weather. ? My brother said it was only about $6 and I was like, whaaaaat?! ?So cheap, and good! ?No wonder everyone always get lunches from these food trucks. ? This would literally last me for 3 meals.
Pretty damn good. I went today (Tues) at 6:30pm and they were on the SE corner without a line (lucky me)! But by 7pm, a line of 15 ppl started to form. The rice isn't anything special, and I've had waaaay better rice at a Halal cart near my place in Queens. But the lamb is nicely charred and the chicken flavorful. The lamb is by far better than the chicken, but I still get the combo. The red sauce is hooooot! I can handle really spicy foods but this is not for the faint of heart. The pita bread is super soft and delicious. The hefty portion that you get for $6 is a steal! Overall, solid meal but not good enough to warrant waiting in line for more than 10 minutes.
Being a jet setter means you have been just about everywhere and done just about everything. I have been lucky to have traveled alot over the last 20 years. If its the streets of Guadalajara or Beijing, you find street food vendors offering just about anything to eat. After years of travel I have found my absolute favorite street food. Whenever I'm in NYC I can be found at the halal food cart at 53rd & 6th enjoying a hot plate of lamb over spicy rice covered with an incredible white sauce. All I have to say to Niki is "lamb plate" and she is always game. This Egyptian dish is so amazing you will only understand what I am talking about by just tasting it for yourself. Take a cab, take a bus, take a subway. How ever you get there just get there and experience halal food bliss.
Sad that my boyfriend no longer lives in Midtown West for the sole reason that I don't have a convenient excuse to visit this cart on a frequent basis. Doesn't matter if it's after a night out or for dinner, I'll stand in line for this any time, no matter the weather. It really is superior to other Halal carts in the city. Go easy on the hot sauce and heavy on the white sauce. Chicken, lamb, combo platters - all so delicious. Also a great deal for a big portion. Definitely worth the wait.
A must-try if you're in NYC: delicious AND cheap! We got a combo plate (comes w/chicken, gyro [lamb], rice, lettuce, and pita bread) - it wasn't quite enough food for 2 people, but that's OK. ?The chicken and gyro were both super flavorful. On the side, they give you this spicy sauce & also a creamy yogurt sauce... but frankly, I didn't think the food needed any sauce because it was so delicious already. I don't know what their official hours are, but they were already open a little after 7pm on a Wednesday. My only tip: If you get the food to-go and don't eat it right away, the pita will get grossly soggy -- no bueno.
I mothereffin halal you. I admit that I'm not a big fan of Middle Eastern food. So, naturally, I am intrigued as to why THIS truck out of all the OTHER halal trucks in practically EVERY block is just so fabulous. We arrived to this infamous truck at 3am with no wait. Score. We ordered the combination (chicken and lamb) plate with rice and pita bread. Not only was it delicious but the guys generously gifted us with packets of the white sauce. We came back to the hotel with 6+ packets of white sauces. Score again. And how do I know that this truck was legit? I ate all my leftovers the next morning at 9am. The meat was still tasty, the pita bread was still soft, and my stomach was still in tact. Definitely winning.
The hype over this place is PALPABLE. The fact that on any given night that I've been here it's been a 15-30 minute wait will also tell you something, but I digress. They offer chicken and rice, lamb and rice, combo of the two, and gyro's. I've only ever had the chicken and rice and combo with rice, but I assume the gyros are pretty epic. Their white sauce is mad delicious, and their portions are enough to almost three meals if you are a picker like I am. And at $6?? That's just obscene! :D I will forever tell people to come to this chicken and rice cart, there can be no imitation for the Halal Guys!
Yes, I eat street meat (when I'm hungover). ?And yes, this is probably the best street meat in NY. I favor the lamb sandwich. ?Today's was a touch off their best but this place is very, very good. ?The hot sauce is great and very hot. ?I wish they didn't chop the meat so finely (it's like ground lamb and the pita sandwich sort of disintegrates as you try to eat it), but it's a minor drawback. Cheap, filling, delicious, fast...I'm struggling to find fault here.
Great halal food cart. ?Why do you think there's always a line here? ?Definitely add A LOT of white yogurt sauce and a little of the hot sauce. ?Too much hot sauce ruins the food.
Yes there were 3 carts at 53rd+6th (probably to help with the long lines at the center cart) and I believe that they are the same, yet everyone still lines up at the center cart. Being that it was my first time and I didn't want to go wrong with any fear of imitators, I went ahead in the center cart. LEGIT and DELICIOUS! And I'm dreaming of ways to book my next trip back to the East Coast for it! Pretty fast moving lines in my opinion. Why are you so far!? Open in CA please!
stuffed after eating a great dinner 1 hr earlier. then someone from out of town wanted to eat here before going back home...the verdict? what a second dinner! didn't know taste buds could have a second wind. pretty moist chicken and lamb over a perfectly cooked bed of rice. add some/a lot of white sauce and a dab or two of red sauce and instant yummy. time to hit the gym...twice
Okay with close to 3k reviews and 4.5 stars it must be good right? Wrong!! Its not good, its GREAT! For only eight bucks the GF and I got a Snapple drink, and Halal chicken bowl that came with a pile of lettuce, a mountain of super delicious middle eastern spiced orange rice, and a ton of chicken and some other meat perhaps lamb??? I don't really know the exact ingredients, I simply went up to the guys at the cart, and said give me your most popular dish, and this is what we got. Also it came with some pita bread, some creamy white sauce, and spicy red sauce. The dish was nothing short of Amazing, it was super filling I recommend sharing because it is a ton of food!!! For eight bucks including a drink you can't go wrong!! Thanks fellow yelpers for your great recommendation!!
Halal Guys are the carts located on the corner of 53rd street and 6th ave. I've been coming here for years, but only now getting around to writing a review.The food here is amazing. You can get chicken over rice, or lamb over rice, or a combination of chicken and lamb. Also if you like it saucy, they have a white sauce that meshes with the dish perfectly. They have a hot sauce, that is EXTREMELY HOT, and this coming from someone who really enjoys spicy food. You can find a seat anywhere on the corner, they have a couple seats nearby and I always seem to find a seat near the waterfall. They are open til 4 or 5 am and I don't know if there is a better bang for your buck in the city! $6 a plate, and $1 for a water.
Saut?ed Chicken on pitas! Delicious while drunk. Relatively inexpensive at $4 a pita. Also, you will probably have the runs after. Still worth it!
Great food at a great price, though I cannot easily distinguish this cart from many of the other halal carts and restaurants around the area. One note - be careful with the hot sauce! ?At night it looked like the bottle with BBQ sauce. Almost killed me.
I don't taste the difference from other halal carts. But my bf loves it, he thinks this is where u get the best halal food
Awesome: -The line for this cart is awesome, you can talk to a variety of people, either find out where to go for the night, or discuss what happened for the night. Not so awesome: -The lamb sandwich is alright, meat is decent, pita is awesome, it is really soft, sauce is bland.
It was about 4am on a summer night, and my friends and I had been partying for well over 12 hours. ?We were in dire need of some great, fast eatz- and luckily, my friend Fundz knew the perfect spot for us! ?We all split up and three of us took a cab to the Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th- which Fundz claimed to be the best chicken and rice EVER. ?At first, I was definitely a bit hesistant- just because I usually stay away from any sort of Halal/kebab cart in NYC. ?But, as we pulled up, the line expanded over a full block- and I immediately got excited. ?After a few emotional and drunk conversations, we finally grabbed about 10 snapples and 10 orders of chicken and rice with extra sauce. ?Our goal was to get these boxes of deliciousness to a friend's apartment nearby- but it all smelled so good that we had opened one up in the back of the cab and started shoveling chicken and rice in our faces. ?We left the cab driver a nice amount of rice, chicken, and sauce all over his cab and headed up the apartment to help ourselves to another round of delicious Chicken and Rice. ?This place is a great go-to if you're in the area and I would definitely like to go back and try it for lunch!
I was sitting here trying to decide between 3 and 4 stars for this but I went with the latter because it's one of the better halal carts around and a really excellent place to go to after a night of partying in the city. Open late, cheap, and hits the spot. With that said, I haven't eaten here in almost a year (though I have accompanied others so they could get their fix) because just thinking about the greasiness and generally fattening qualities of their lamb and chicken platter doused in white sauce and a little bit of the red sauce makes me queasy. The next time I get dragged here, I'll probably grab a platter for myself, eat a few bites of it, and regret it immediately. I have never finished this in one sitting and I don't plan to try. This tastes best when fresh but it's good as leftovers too. I've also had their gyro which is good if you want a change from a platter. If you aren't into spicy food, use caution with the red sauce because a little goes a long way. Don't be deterred by a long line because they have a pretty efficient system that moves everything along quickly. Know what you want by the time you get to the front of the line. If you're here during a lunch or dinner rush, they might get skimpy with stuff in your platter. One time they totally ran out of lettuce, another time I got only 2 small triangles of pita bread, and yet another time there was a noticeably higher amount of rice than meat.
I am always a fan of this cart. I've been here late at night, for lunch, and for dinner. Food is always fresh and in gargantuan proportions. Chicken over rice is the staple. Get the lamb and chicken combo when you're in the mood for more salty. And if you're in the mood for spicy, get the sauce on the side... because it will just numb your mouth for the next few hours you're awake.
Long Lines but well worth the wait. Best Chicken and Rice in the city. I sometimes get the Combo (Chicken and Lamb). Pour on the white sauce because this is what makes this place stand out. And like all the rest of the Yelpers have said the hot sauce is HOT.
I tried...three times. The hype...it's not worth that much. I mean it is good and I will eat it. Each time I've had the lamb and chicken combo. There isn't much flavor from either meat they basically taste the same. The rice is okay, I can't eat the white sauce because I'm allergic to eggs (It's just mayo...like it's not even something that special, mayo, vinegar, pepper and maybe something else), and the hot sauce seems to be cayenne paste (literally the shaker you buy in the store mixed with water and vinegar). I can't say I won't eat here again, but it's not all that. I'm updating my review.... First you have to get lamb...second you have to use the white sauce and a little pepper sauce. A-M-A-Z-I-N-G!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Forget the chicken don't even bother with it. Also the white sauce seems to just be weaken ranch dressing and not mayo. So I've actually been eating it and I haven't noticed any allergic reactions. This is a great place I love it!
Distinctly average and over priced for chicken rice.. .the best is either 54th and park or 52nd and park ... both 1dollar cheaper
A visit to NY has to include chicken & rice from this cart. I have dreams about their red/white sauce. I will stay in Midtown just to be closer to them. I'm a little obsessed. Even though I didn't stay in Midtown this time, my manfriend drove me there and bought me a plate to bring with me on my flight. I am a lucky girl.
Ok, the portions are a good size and the food is tasty but let's not forget it's still slop from a cart. ?Thinking of the hygiene perspective, I can't give it more than two stars.
-ate the chicken and lamb combo - added white and red sauce. - red sauce is HOT! - overall good food. Would have it again cause its 6 dollars, but only with white sauce.
you already know!! believe the hype!
It's definitely not worth all the hype. I've tried plenty of other places that are a lot better than this and the food actually made me very sick the next day
So, try to get there late night, and try a mix of hot and white sauce.
I discovered this place a few years ago when I used to work in the area. ?I literally tried every cart in the area and determined that these guys were the best. ?Not only did they give you large portions, the sauce wasn't watered down like some of the other places. ?Sadly, I work downtown now and don't have the luxury of going to this cart on a regular basis anymore. Since the last time I was there they have since expanded to three carts. ?As I walked to my usual cart on the South West corner of 53rd and 6th, these guys on 52nd tried to get me to stop. ?I did hear that there are other carts with guys in the same hoodies, but I ignored them and proceeded to my regular cart. ?Got there at 7:30pm, according to the website, they opened at 7pm. ?There are 30-40 people on the SW corner already, another cart on the SE corner had about 25-30 people. ?The one on 52nd, none. Waited for about 15 minutes, one guy asks me what I want, another takes my money and bags my food. ?As I leave with my bag, I noticed that they have attached like ten bottles of red, white and bbq sauce along the temporary construction poles allowing their customers to help themselves to the sauce. ?Then another cart looks like it only sold drinks. ?I was fascinated by how assembly line it has gotten. Something gets lost when they don't ask you how much sauce you want on your dish. But I guess i shouldn't complain when the line with so many people did move quickly. Before I got ushered along, I did manage to ask them if the guys across the street and the guys on 52nd were the same stand. ?He nodded yes. ?So it's official, there are THREE stands!
the land of halal guys is awesome! they have several carts around the block going east, west and north.
THE WHITE SAUCE AND HOT SAUCE! thats all i gotta say. the hot sauce will burn your mouth and turn it numb if you put more than a few droplets. ?no idea what the white sauce is but you need it! its like yogurt based deliciousness. ?squirt white sauce all over my platter! haha. ?its huge for only $6. ?feel like its a steal. ?no wonder there is always a line for this cart and no other. ?wait at least 10 minutes each time and at max an hour. ?always get the combo of lamb and chicken with rice and a little tiny salad to change the flavor up a little when getting tired of the meat and rice. ?its probably the most generous portion out of all the carts too. ?always super full after it, can barely even finish. ?good for two people. ?the pita bread is so soft too! ?don't know what they do to it to make it so soft. ?love it! ? only problem and why its not a five star?.....it just can't be digested! it runs straight through me! like instant cleanser. ?worth it though!
I ate this 3 times while I was in NYC for 5 days and I would have to say it was one of the best things I ate there. ?The first time we had it I poured the hot sauce all over it and the guys warned me that it was very spicy and I was like it's ok, I love spicy! and they were like its VERY spicy and I was like yeah, its ok I LOVE spicy! Little did I know it was this habanero type of spicy.. oh my god I was DYING when I ate it. ?See this is the thing, I never know what different ethnicities mean by "spicy" because it differs with every culture. Oh man, my friends and I shared this and were coughing and choking and tearing up because of it but we still had to finish it because it was so good regardless.
I love street meat and this was by far the best that either my GF or I have eaten. She normally doesn't like street meat because of how greasy and heavy it can be. Definitely not your typical street meat with these guys. We shared the combo plate with chicken and lamb. It was bomb!! Be prepared to wait as these guys know they have a superior product so they don't move as quickly as other street vendors. There is also a long line but if you're wiling to wait for about 15 minutes, it is definitely worth it.
Got the chicken and lamb combo. Juicy and tender. Great people running it, very fast. Hot sauce is very spicy, but they put on the right amount. So happy I tried this spot, and went back again the following day.
Such large portions and they're open until around 4am- just in case you happen to be out, desperately searching for food. I would've given it 5 stars but the guy spent 5 minutes telling me that lamb isn't meat after I told him that I'm vegan. Since when is lamb not meat?
I missed my hala cart opportunity last time I was in New York and I made sure I stood in that line this time around. The line was quite long but moved really fast. I shared a combination plate with chicken, lamb, rice, pita, and salad. I was already really full after eating a three course meal at Daniel and told my fiancee that I would have a bite or two. When he arrived back with the combination plate drizzled with white sauce and hot sauce I had took my first bite and it was absolutely delicious! There are a lot of carts throughout New York and I'm no connoisseur but I know what taste good and that combo plate tasted good! After two bites I took the plate and the fork and continued eating. The white sauce was amazing and that hit sauce was super spicy just the way I liked it. Definitely a great place to snack or to just get fat.
6 bucks for a HUGE plate of food. ?I can usually eat a lot but this plate was more than I can handle. Their food is basic, but done very well. ?I've eaten at other halal food trucks in NYC, and this one tops them all mostly due to the portion size and price.
i was at new york for vacation 3 weeks ago and didn't have time to write a review. my friend recommend me this place, so I ordered lamb and chicken combo with pita bread. ?Love the sauce. ?Its really good. ?Get there early to beat the long line.
I don't have anything to compare it against as I've never eaten at a food cart before. I had the chicken and rice which was tasty. The line stretched all the way down the block, which was funny because there were other similar looking food carts nearby with no patrons. Given that the entire meal was $6, I'd say this is a four star lunch
My review is based on reality vs. expectations given the hype around this truck. Anyone walking or driving by 53rd & 6th after 2pm will notice the ridicolously large line for this food truck. My friends who are also quite familiar with NY late night dining also raved about the food here. After waiting in the line, which honestly isn't bad as the guys are very effecient, I have tried the food and the best word to describe it is... average. Yes, it does the trick and fulfills your hunger but I would never describe it spectacular nor would come here regularly. The white sauce is quite decent but cannot offset the poor ratio of rice to meat. I would come here again & give this place another shot but my recommendation to anyone eating here would be to definitely temper your expectations and you should have a good meal here!
The mysterious long lines....I've been baffled by the popularity of this place for years now. ?Like a bad summer movie with a line around the block...I'm trying to figure out what's pulling everyone to it. ?I'm confused.. is it the location? Maybe it's the lively conversations and people you see on line? ?Maybe it's the energy of the after party feel around the cart? Whatever it is...it can't be the food! it's the most bland, tasteless chicken and rice in NYC! I think the only thing tasty here is the hot sauce...it's deadly hot and addictive. ?I've been to dozens of chicken and rice carts in NYC and this place is definitely the weakest. ?If you want good chicken and rice, try the Rafiqi or Sammy's halal carts.
After a late movie, L and I needed to find a place that was still open, I remembered how popular this halal cart was. The line was really long and L really didn't wanna wait, but I managed to convince him. It really wasn't worth the wait. We shared the chicken and gyro combo. The meat, alone, was not very flavorful. The portions are great though, enough for 2. The red sauce was the best part. Extremely hot, so painful...but in a good way. The white sauce is creamy, yet bland. I've had better halal in my own neighborhood. Maybe I have to be drunk to enjoy it... ?Oh well, at least it was only $6.
I was at the salsa congress in the Hilton Hotel last year. We left at 3 in the morning and were starving!! We passed by this joint and we ordered chicken on rice platter. It was soooooooo good!!! Been coming here since and its completely out of my way. this place comes highly recommended!
I believe that if you ?know what to expect, you probably wont get(/too) disappointed. So im letting you know now, expect a long wait in line and the food to be worth the wait. Three guys one cart. Be ready to tell the first guy what you want, the second guy what kind of sauces you want/dont want, and pay the third guy. Their deliciously seasoned chicken and lamb comes chopped up and makes for easy chewing and enjoying. I asked for extra white and hot sauce which they squeezed a whole lot of over the meat and rice. We couldnt wait to eat it so we enjoyed it at a nearby planter/benches while hungry, fatass, nasty pigeons sat and watched us.
I'm hella sad :( This place has been so hyped up on the web and by word of mouth that I had extremely high hopes for this food. ?Maybe I came on a bad day or I need to be drunk, but my plate of chicken and rice tasted mediocre. ?The rice was good, but the chicken was dry and pretty tasteless... *sigh* ?I was hoping for a 5 star worthy meal. Next time I come to NYC I'm gonna hit this place up again to see if I have a better experience!
Halal Guys will always be on my list of places to go to when visiting NY. The food is flame! It's crazy to see a line of 50 people around 2-3am waiting for the food here. 1) Just thinking about their hot sauce makes my tongue salivate..seriously. The first time I came here I didn't believe how the hot sauce was THAT hot cause I "thought" I was the next Adam Richman. BUT I regretted that...I was tearing from the heat of the sauce and every bite was followed by some recovery time with water/milk...The next time I put drops of hot sauce instead of dousing it...I learn from my mistakes!! 2) The WHITE SAUCE - this sauce mixed with the hot sauce and the rest of the ingredients is what keeps me wanting to fly back to NY. The sauce is so good it's as though the Halal Guys went up to heaven and stole this from God himself. That is all I have to say. GO HERE and cross it off your bucket list!
Soooo good, and it's a goooood amount for the price you pay too. I've been to New York quite a few times and have never had this before and I'm not sure why. Had it for the first time in June of this year and I am soooo craving it again! Be careful of imposters though. You will see a "Halal" cart on every corner or 53rd & 6th and we couldn't even tell the difference from the original and the imposters. Well, I happened to come across this article recently and wanted to share it with you all. So if you haven't tried it yet or are just craving for more.... here's how to spot the difference. Hope it helps. =) newyork.seriouseats.com/?
I don't know why I'm writing this review because everyone and their mother already has an opinion but, nonetheless, here's my review if you so land on it from the 4000+ reviews. I have a love/hate relationship with 53/6. I had it often in the early 2000s but never really liked it. I honestly just went because my friends loved it and the hype and, most importantly, the fun drive from Queens to the city at 1am. Then, I stopped eating it for years because every time I would eat it..I would feel like throwing up. Every single time. My friend suggested I put too much white sauce..and yeah that was it. Then, 2012 came along and for some reason, I honestly don't know why, I've had 53/6 almost three times every month this year. I know. That sounds disgusting. I'm with you. But, I'm addicted to it and I'm not even sure if I like it but I crave it at least twice a month. Maybe it's the drive, maybe it's the convenience and price, maybe because it's in midtown, maybe it's the sauces, just maybe it's the food..I don't know. Sometimes I forget and put too much white sauce and feel like throwing up and vow never, never to come back again..till a week later. 5 stars. Why? Because if I'm eating something as often as I do with 53/6..it has to be what yelp describes as 5 stars: "Woohoo! As good as it gets!"..right? Right?
Old reliable - certainly not your first choice, but when it's this late at night, you take what you can get.
How the hell have I not written a review for 53rd & 6th...this place is my life line I've been eating at this cart for years. I dont care what time of night it is, the weather, how long the line is. I'm innn thereee. Its the best Halal in the city. Halal elsewhere just doesnt compare. I've gladly introduce this cart to a few people and I feel like I've changed their lives forever lmao. Beware of the little containers of hot sauce, a little goes a long way. This is the ultimate 4-5 in the morning post-clubbing meal. Eat it.
before i visited this place i thought it'd be overhyped so i didn't expect the food to be that good...but I was wrong. it IS that good! we had the mixed plate of chicken, lamb, and rice. delicious! ?as others have warned, go easy on the hot sauce because its more fierce than it looks.
Beware of copycats. Boyfriend and I got into NYC at 11pm-ish (he lives in Boston, so we took the bus). Our hotel was the Warwick, which is literally a block away, which is really the only reason that boyfriend chose to stay at that hotel. I was so confused about the hype until I sat down to nom on my first meal in NYC and it was effing good. And $6? Damn. Two important things to note: 1) I had this AGAIN within 36 hours. We're crazy, I know. But it was that good. 2) Take it easy on the hot sauce. It doesn't look like much, but it packs a HUGE punch. And it'll burn later. So yeah. Take it easy.
best quality halal meat in the city. FOSHO. their white sauce is like crack and their hot sauce is ACTUALLY spicy. trust me, i know.
location: sandwiched in between buildings and in front of the hilton hotel. ?lines can get brutal, ?especially if it's during winter time! ?there's nothing worse than having to wait in that line in freezing cold, ?wind chill. ?plenty of seating at the adjacent buildings. ? either sit on a ledge or stand. ?embrace the NY experience. ?it's cheap, ?filling, ?satisfying, ?and the best bang for your buck. ? must have items: -extra cups of their hot sauce: ?i'm a spice fiend. ? i have a pretty high tolerance and i'm a glutton for punishment. ?i love the high you get from eating chilis. ?but... damn, ?this is HOT. ?i made the fatal mistake of dousing my chicken & rice with it. ?i put an equal amount of white sauce with this hot sauce. ?i figured i can handle it, ?but fawk... i was hurting. ? it was in the middle of winter, ?late at night, ?and i was sweating profusely. ?my stomach felt like a volcano had just erupted. ?i nearly got a bloody nose too. ?i felt the pain all night throughout the morning and actually lost weight from it. ?my metabolism was off the charts. ?i was pounding the times square pavement like a warrior the next day. ?move get out the way, ?scurrying up subway stairs like it was nothing. ? was it worth it? ?hell-to-the-fuck-yeah! ?would i do it again? ?yes-without a doubt-sign-me-up-i'm-on-it! ?ok, ?actually just a few drops. ? i don't want an ulcer. -extra cups of their white sauce: ?crack. ?it's like tzatziki moved midwest and fell in love with country gravy. ?it tastes exactly like that. ?you can never have enough. ?just when you think you're good with the 10 cups, ?no... keep going, ?make it 11. ? ? -chicken & rice: ?plenty of chicken with yellow rice, ?plain iceberg lettuce salad, ?small triangled pita bread. ?it tastes like thanksgiving. ?very similar flavors. ?it's so good you wanna punch someone in the face and yell on top of tkts times square. ?best bang for your buck. ?best choice you'll ever make in life. ? conclusion: don't bother getting the barbeque sauce. ?keep it simple with the white + red. ?don't be a schmuck though and drown it in the red. ?you'll be in tears and you'll pay. ?go earlier if you don't wanna wait. ? waiting can be a buzzkill and a real pain in the ass. ?if you're new to NY, ?you have to get it. ? forget landmarks like the statue of liberty, ?empire state building... all that... you know, ?just get the damn chicken & rice and you're good! ? that's the only NY experience you need.
When I talk to my friends about NYC (especially food), they always seem to ask if I'd been to the ?"Chicken and Rice Guy." ?So this guy is like a local celebrity...and for good reason... the food here is great. ? How great? ?Well.... late at night, there was still a line at least a block long. ?I was scared I'd be waiting forever, but they got serving down to an art form here. ?Everything went by very efficiently and smoothly. ?Portions were pretty decent and were great for a late night snack. ?I had some leftover and let me tell you, it also makes a good breakfast haha. At the end of the day, yeah, it's still street food... but it's really good street food--so much so that no trip to New York should be without a pitstop here.
The best street food on this side of town. Even though there is always a long line, I have no problem waiting. Chicken and rice with white sauce is so good.
I've reviewed 53rd and 6th plenty of times giving it 5 stars. ?As for this location, it's the same people serving the same food. ?Or do they serve the same food....? I ordered my usual of lamb over rice without salad for $6. ?While I was waiting for my order, i saw a tray of grilled peppers and onions steaming toward me. ?I've never seen them available before and asked the guy to put them on my plate: yelp.com/biz_photos/3aoQ? It was a TASTY plate... Summary: ?5 stars...again~
On my trip to New York that lasted a week, I ate at this halal cart three times. My first time was an interesting one to say the least. It was a combination of both intense pain and pleasure. I was instantly hooked by the first bite I took...then my tongue was engulfed in flames. People weren't kidding when they said that the red sauce is HOT. I was sweating and gasping for watering...yet I couldn't stop eating. It was that good. For the final two dinners of my trip, I ate from this cart because I wouldn't be able to eat it any time soon. Oh halal cart, now that I'm back in California, I miss you terribly...
In my opinion, the food here tastes better than the food on 53rd. Try it.
I love eating from carts! There's something to be said for the satisfying feeling of grabbing something for pretty cheap and then walking around and eating it, or sitting in a square and people watching. This chicken and rice cart is one of my all-time favorites and was worth the long line around the block! They give you so much food and the sauces are all great (I love white sauce and BBQ sauce, but the red sauce was pretty good too). Oh and it makes for okay leftovers! Definitely a New York cart that deserves all of its praise!
There is nothing I can say about the Halal Guys that hasn't been said before. I highly recommend the chicken and gyro combo so you get the best of both worlds. This is a must try for anyone visiting NYC. Just make sure to be careful with the red sauce. The spicyness is no joke.
This spot is like a must go to every time we visit New York. ?Cheap and great food, definitely worth the wait! ?We went to the opposite corner this time, it turns out, they're still the same people...just on opposite corners and the food still tastes great!
I was stoked to come back after a long 3-year hiatus. ?Last time, I was at the Sheraton around the corner from this place so I tried the cart during lunch and dinner time and I think they are both good even though they are different carts (the one at night has no tomatoes). ?The price is still the same, $6! ? We came here for dinner after going to the Moma on Friday (FREE from 4p-8p on Fridays - Thank you Target sponsor!). ?There was a line but it went quickly. ?We sat on that building thing next to the cart and there were a lot of people sitting there alone or with friends despite the light rain. ?We ate our leftovers later that night at the hotel and it was still good! ?Combination plate is the way to go! ?If you can't stand spicy, only get a little bit of the hot sauce for taste. ?If you have a sensitive stomach, use the white sauce sparingly. ? ? ? YOU MUST TRY ONCE on your trip to NYC! ?Even if you're not hungry, come and split the dish with someone for a snack!
So this was actually a 4.5 but I have to preface this review: I came after a 2 day fake "starvation" diet (to prep for my NY trip where I have a to eat map w/ 50+ food targets, and a walk from Grand Central Station having not eaten for 9 hours (fortunately there wasn't a long line). And of course, I probably have little to write that hasn't already been covered. ?But anyways... I got the combo from this infamous cart. The meat (lamb and ?chicken) were juicy, the lettuce crispy, the pita deliciously warm but sparse. ?The rice was just ok, imo. ?It was the addition of the miraculous, often raved about white sauce that really made this come together and worth of a 4.5 star review. ?And the size (enough for 2 meals/people) and price ($6) certainly helps the cause.
Had to try this place to see what the fuss was about. Went here after work on a Monday night at around 9pm. There were 2 people in line so just my luck since I know the lines are always so long. I got the chicken and rice with the spicy sauce and oh man was the sauce spicy. I love spicy food but this has to be up there with the top I've eaten (aside from Orochon ramen in LA). The chicken was moist and the rice was delicious as well. However, I think I may gotten an allergic reaction to the sauce...my tounge was swollen for a good 2 days after...worth it lol.
DELICIOUS. The wait is well worth it. The hot sauce is super spicy just how I like it. This cart is only open during the middle of the night, and there is a fake one during the day. Make sure you try out the real deal.
Ahh what can I say that hasn't already been said about this place? Probably nothing but this is one of the only food carts I trust in the city. For $6 you get a very filling plate of chicken on rice or lamb on rice or the combo. I'm not a huge fan of lamb so I go chicken. The white sauce is beyond amazing so use a lot of it. The red sauce VERY hot use sparingly and the bbq sauce though a newer item to the stands is a nice compliment to the chicken. The workers are incredibly efficient as well. ?The usual long lines move very quickly as they take your money basically as you order and hand you your food. The one thing I find humorous though is that there is a cart right across the street same guys same exact recipe that some stubborn people refuse to believe is the same thing. So when the line is too long for me I just laugh and cross the street. I've maybe felt sick a couple times from the food but who hasn't from street meat.
people are hyping them up. 4 1/2 stars? maybe 3 or 4 years ago, but their food quality has definitely decreased over the years. probably due to this tremendous rise in popularity. i'll get cravings for it once in a while, but there are SO many better halal carts in nyc. and why is their hot sauce so effing hot? people want to enjoy the flavor of hot sauce without having to sweat and die from the intensity.
God damnit, it's as good as everyone said it would be. It doesn't seem right. Actually it's totally and completely wrong. We went two nights in a row because you really do wake up the next morning wanting more. No line either night at midnight. Took our dad the second night and in the morning our mom told us how he wouldn't stop talking about how incredible it was. Oh and I prefer the lamb to the chicken for sure. Lamb all the way!
Everything that can be said has already been said in 2,500+ reviews, so I'm just going to give you some tips. 1. Authenticate by spotting the yellow umbrella. Posers have the same tshirts and bags, but they don't have the same umbrella. The real guys usually come at dinner time and stay the rest of the night. 2. It never hurts to tip, especially at 4AM and the line stretches through half of 53rd. A Jackson can do wonders in expediting your order. 3. They are the same as the guys on the SE corner, 52nd & 6th and 52nd & 7th. Those carts are often overlooked and they shouldn't be, since it's really the same stuff. 4. You only need 1/2 an order, so share with someone else. 5. Mixed with rice. Lots of white, some BBQ and a squirt of hot sauce the size of a nickel when you really want to get adventurous. I've finished the Phaal Challenge and I don't even want to mess with the hot sauce here.
Fantastic meal for a great price. I'd always been weary of food carts, and I still am, but chicken and rice from the 53rd and 6th cart will always have a special place in my heart. I can't indulge in the white sauce anymore (crack sauce, is what they should call it) because I'm certain it's a yogurt based sauce, but regardless, the plates are still outstanding. I would generally get the lamb and chicken combo with rice and salad, add some hot sauce. No joke: I'd be practically done with the plate within 5 minutes. 7 minutes, tops. I will say that if you have it too frequently, it might start getting too salty for you towards the end of your dish. (That's when you'd douse your plate with more white sauce, then proceed to happily shovel the remaining bits of deliciousness in your mouth.) I wouldn't recommend getting the dish frequently, but it's definitely worth waiting in line for when you get that (drunken) craving for something savory and satisfying.
Stood in line with some co-workers for a solid 30-40 minutes at 2 PM, way past what I'd consider a normal lunchtime. It also didn't help that the smells were intoxicating and only got stronger as we got closer to the truck. I ordered a lamb/chicken plate with rice and was definitely really happy. The spicy sauce was REALLY spicy and delicious and I was pretty happy with the meal. However, the quality of the meat isn't that great - I went into knowing that but still...felt a little gross afterwards. If I go again, I will NOT order the chicken since I'm not a fan of random, fatty, dark meat pieces. Good, but nothing I'd miss after a while.
Seriously, eating this has put my on a hunt to find halal food in Chicago... so far, no such luck. So craving it right now... it's akin to Carne Asada fries in San Diego. Anyway, the line is unnecessarily long... the food actually tastes the same across the street (I tried those too).
Unfortunately like many food carts, this one is not vegetarian friendly :( But, my boyfriend loves it and I always bring or send visiting friends here & they universally love it. ? My last roommate used to order extra sides of both sauces and bring it home for me so I could make my own vegetarian version lol. So all I can say is the sauces are good and that all my friends love it. Around normal eating hours the line is always long but I've seen it with no line during off hours before. Always long lines late weekend nights too. Great sobering up food! I've been told the one directly across the street is the same company/same food but never attracts as long of lines (people are creatures of habit and/or skeptical) This is a great place for a quick, filling and affordable meal a midst a sea overpriced mediocracy in midtown.
A food truck that has almost 3,000 reviews?! Seems unheard of! Until you have Halal Guys. That is their official name. But yelp having the streets as the name is pretty helpful. I don't even know what to say about it. You just have to try it for yourself to understand the words that are coming out of my mouth. It's delicious, it's super filing, it's tasty, and most importantly it's cheap!
Beware beware of the burning hot sauce! I ALWAYS forget how much more concentrated their capsaicin is compared to other halal carts! Go easy on it...few drops spices up the whole dish. If you already know that, I'd say go easy on the white sauce too. It's obvi a mayo base that is sitting there all day and not very flavorful anyway. Basically, just enjoy the quality and texture of their chicken, and add a few drops of sauce to just brighten it up! You need both! but not too much. It is very different here than other places, which are just smorgasborgs of cubed chicken and spices. This place has fine shredded chicken that needs little spice. And don't worry bout the line. Every customer takes a second to serve.
I don't get it!!!!! ?Yet another extremely popular yelp spot that I think was average. ? I think if I ordered the sandwich I would have been happier, but I got the combo bowl. ?There was way too much sauce on top which masked the flavor of the meat and the hot sauce was just blazing hot with less chile flavor that I adore. ? Mehhhh...it was all just OKAY. ?Five stars? Really? Is the trick to be drunk and stumbling over there at 3am? ?:)
The rice with hot sauce is amazing! The chicken is soft and test very good!! I often came here before lunch time to avoid waiting so long. Worth to try.
Overrated, but cheap and pleasant as a social experience.
OMG this place is amazing! ?I walked by and the smell drew me in. I'm so glad I tried it as it is the best street food ever. I got the mixed combo (chicken and lamb) and it was done perfectly. The rice was so aromatic too. And don't get me started on their to-die-for white sauce. If I lived in NYC I would be there every night.
This place is a NYC original. It never ceases to leave me without my mouth on fire. No matter how conservative I go on the hot sauce, it's always on fire... Great hot sauce! The line gets long on Friday and Saturday late night after the bars.
Yes I was a sucker and I wasted in the long line for the 53rd and 6th location. ?Well just across the street are the same guys with the same food and a shorter line! hahaha. STILL THE BEST $6 YOU WILL SPEND ON FOOD IN NEW YORK!
Probably the best halal for portion to price. Little do people know, there are actually four carts. Cart 1 is the most popular, you will know because there is a long ass line. Cart 2 prepares the meat and brings it to Cart 1,3 & 4. Cart 3 is next to the drinks cart. Cart 4 is across the street (which has almost no wait) As K C. mentioned, the guys here have dealt with so many tourists so they aren't the friendliest but you can't complain cause they serve so many people daily. I prefer getting the combination of chicken and lamb. Avoid getting chicken alone because it is dry. This will make you buy a drink which are overpriced. Hot sauce: I don't know how my friends can smother this all over. This sauce is FIRE. The white sauce is great but I try to limit even though I'm already eating unhealthy as it is.
There is no need to enthuse about how delicious the lamb and rice is. That's taken for granted. However, I just want to warn those health conscious people out there that this is extremely artery clogging (which explain why it is so yummy). I finished half, and moved the leftovers into a tupperware. The next day, after heating it up in the microwave, I found more than an inch of oil at the bottom, and had to strain it away. But yeah, it was still sinfully delicious after draining the oil away though.
Best platter ever. Only $6 for the novelty. Cannot be finished in one shot. Crazy lines. Crazy hot sauce. Get it on the side if you aren't from a culture where you leave the seeds in your tiny peppers.
I will preface this by saying I am not the type to try Halal food from a cart unless otherwise recommended. This is hands down the most delicious and most filling meal you can have for $6. Portions are HUGE. I always get the lamb with the white sauce. Without the white sauce, this place would not be a business. I wouldn't even dare try another cart because I would just be disappointed. It's a must try.
Why does everyone thing this is the best street meat in NYC? The chicken and lamb are both so plain and diced to the point where the meat has no texture. No spices + no onions = no flavor :( It's not bad but don't believe the hype. I've been to at least 6 different halal stands that make more flavorful lamb/chicken and rice. The white sauce seemed pretty standard as any other place. The hot sauce was very good though.
It's awesome cannot believe a food stand could make such good food both chicken and lamb are so great love the white source ps the hot sauce is really spicy, u better ask for a little
The absolute best best best drunk munchie food, hands down! Since the first time I've had C&R, they've upped the price, no longer give you plastic cups filled with white sauce deliciousness, and only give you a cover if you ask (wth guys!) but IDGAF, I will keep on comin' here as my health allows :D Have heard that the C&R cart across 6th ave is the same as the one on this corner, and while this may be true, there is something about waiting hours for this delicious platter that makes a world of difference. The last time I was here was pre-drunk crowd (2AMish) and rainy... NO LINE! Only the best feeling everrrr.
I LOVE THE HALAL GUYS. I got a combo, chicken and beef. Drenched that entire plate with WHITE SAUCE. OMG IT WAS ALL SO AMAZING. Beware of the red sauce! Spicy as shit! I only poured a little bit on my plate thinking it was equivalent to Taco Bell Fire Sauce but it burned so much. I would use extra caution! IT'S STRONG!
Chicken over rice. ?A lot of white sauce and a little red sauce. ?Mix it together and woooooow! ?Sooooo good!
Yes, the potions are huge, and yes it's cheap, but I do not get the hype about this cart! Maybe it's because I didn't go drunk.. but do you really have to be sloshed at "good" places to think it's good?
Everyone told me to try this cart when I visited NYC and it was as good as they promised.
This place has over 2000 reviews so I typically wouldn't add yet another review. ?But, I have no idea how this place amassed such a loyal following. ?Perhaps these are tourists giving it 5 stars or perhaps I went on an off day, a VERY off day. ?The chicken was flavorless and the lamb was not very good and the rice was cold and clumped. ?The "salad" was a few pieces of lettuce. ?The white sauce tasted like a combination of mayonnaise and ranch dressing. ?I would never wait in line for this food again. ?I have had better chicken and lamb over rice at other carts that can be found on every corner in the city.
There are actually 3 carts, I think. The one on 7th has the shortest line. I love that you can get the sauce on the side now!
Best Halal in NYC! I've been going here for years and have always seen long lines at this cart. I even saw Fat Joe ordering here once lol. I usually get the lamb and rice combo but today I had the lamb/chicken and rice combo. It was great! The portions are huge so I always have enough to take home. I love their white sauce! Caution: Only use tiny drops of their hot sauce. Their hot sauce is so spicy it's enough to make you cry.
This cart offers a really great value right in the heart of the city. ?After waiting for about 15 minutes in line, I ordered the highly rated chicken and rice. ?It is served in an aluminum "to go" tin with a bed of lettuce on the bottom. ?You can opt for the famous white sauce, hot sauce, and/or barbeque sauce. ?I asked for just a little but they pretty much put the same amount of white sauce on for everyone. ?A small amount of the hot sauce packs a large punch too. ?I mixed it all together and it was actually very tasty. ?At $6.00 it can easily feed a modest appetite for both lunch and dinner if you were on a budget. ?The long line will give you time to prepare what you will order because the Halal guys don't exactly exude patience and hospitality.
The Halal Cart food is as good as the rating. ?My husband and I ate here on a business trip 2 nights in a row - it was delicious enough for a return visit the second night. ?One mixed chicken/rice plate with the white sauce was enough to feed both of us. ?The price is fantastic for the amount of food they pile on the plate. ?Truly a treat after a long day of conferences.
Great food, good price. Man seriously, I have changed my veiws on Halal food. The combo is amazing along with the white sauce its great. The hot sauce is great for those who LOVE spicy food. And you really feel the "orgasmic" feel in your mouth when you take a bite. If I lived closer to that area, that would definatly eat that 4 days out of the week.
DELICIOUS! There are many other reviews for this place so I will keep mine short and to the point. If you use the spicy sauce, do so with caution. It is hot! HOT!!! HOTTTTT!!!! I love spicy food and thought I'd be adventurous by trying some extra spicy sauce on my halal. No exaggeration, after two bites my mouth was on fire for the next 25 minutes. I had to order two sodas
We came here after having an amazing meal at Ai Fiori. ?I know, I know - why would we follow that amazing meal with more food? ?The short answer: We had to. ?My friend had never been to New York before, and we only had one night left and we had yet to eat at the famous halal truck. ?So we waited in the hotel room for a bit to digest, and then headed out to the halal truck to grab some to share. ?It was as good as I remember it being. ?So delicious. ?The white sauce is still amazing, and even though we were super full, we still all ate it. ?Yum yum yum.
It's ridiculous how much I love this little corner. My very first food truck experience ended in making out with the toilet all night, so I swore never to have chicken and rice again. But what I didn't know was that the crap I ate was not THE chicken and rice everyone talked about. Don't make the mistake of having chicken and rice at just any food cart/truck! MAKE SURE YOU DRENCH YOUR FOOD WITH CRACK SAUCE (white sauce).
Came here for the 2nd time last night. There was only a short line and it moved super fast. Even when the line is long things move right along, so don't be discouraged!!! It will be so worth the wait. Just thinking about it again is making my mouth water. Doused it in white sauce and extra red sauce. It burned... but it burned so good.
Mixed, with plenty of white sauce and a penny sized drop of hot sauce is yummy in my tummy. Long lines are expected, but move pretty fast. The food is meant to be eaten right away, which is a bit difficult for me as I am a towering 5'4" female with a small frame. Doesn't taste too good after an hour. But I will always come back for repeat visits. Tip: ?Sometimes they have another cart across the street - especially when the 6th avenue street festival is going on - so be on the lookout and skip the long lines!
MMM so good for my belly. so bad for my arteries and heart. This is one of those things that I can only stomach about every other month or so because it is really heavy. With that said, it is the by far the tastiest halal food I've ever eaten. I order the gyro (lamb) over rice plate (I find the chicken to be kinda dry and I noticed I didn't really eat it when I got half gyro and half chicken). Their white yogurt sauce is amazing... and so is their "BBQ" sauce. I don't know what to call it, but it's a darkish red sauce that adds some sweetness to the plate. Their hot sauce is dangerous and you literally only need one little squirt on your plate (this coming from someone who usually douses her food in hot sauce). I HAVE seen the line that this cart can generate, and it can get pretty ridiculous (can you feel me, drunk hungry people at 4am??) Fortunately I always went at odd times in the early evening and never really had a problem. $6 for a plate that could last me for two meals. Awesome deal. Something good to know... -The cart on the other side of 6th avenue IS the same Halal Guys! I was always told they were competing carts, but no they aren't. In fact sometimes when they are super busy, the less busier cart will help the other cook the meat! -The cart on the west side of 53rd street has their sauces in big-squeezable containers while the east side cart has only the white sauce and hot sauce in to-go containers. -There isn't really any seating around the carts besides random benches, so make do with what you find. -If you place a large order of to-go plates...at a non-busy time... on the east side cart... you will get a nifty orange "The Halal Guys" reusable bag... yay! -CASH ONLY! -You WILL get thirsty from all this savoryness... bring a couple extra bucks to buy a drink at their drink station :)
Positive: Decent price for a filling meal while enjoying the streets of New York, especially in the late hours of the night. Negative: Lost its quality and taste over the past few years. Overall: Great place to go with a large group or with people trying to experience New York. ?But if you want higher quality and taste, try elsewhere. Revisit: Only when family and friends come from out of state.
Had to try this NYC late night institution. After leaving a great show at Radio City my wife and I were looking for a late night snack for the train ride home. The Halal cart delivered. Chicken with rice and of course the white sauce. Plenty of food for two to share.
The Taj Mahal of street food... This is the best halal food you will probably ever have! The combination platter is incredible... You really need to use all their sauces to truly have the "53rd and 6th' experience... The hot sauce is HOT, the white sauce is orgasmic (insert joke here if you please, I will not)... Don't bother trying to figure out their recipe because millions have tried and they have all failed. Possibly one of the best meals during winter because it is steaming hot and warms you up as you deal with that NYC wind... Very fatty and overall unhealthy, so you probably should not eat much before or after one of their plates... But do enjoy it and finish it... It's worth it. FYI, do not make the mistake of taking it home and microwaving it.
If you like value for your money, few meals in NYC come close to this. A single chicken over rice at $6 is enough for two; and with the correct sauce combination, it can be a very tasty meal. If you're a poor student like me, that's two dinners for $6. The chicken tastes just as good after 24 hrs in the fridge! However, half the times I buy this, I forget to eat slowly and wolf it down in 6-7 minutes. That's how good it is. My preference is to add a lot of their special spicy red sauce & a little squirt of white sauce. If this is your first time and you did not grow up on spicy food (I did), be very careful with the read sauce - its a different level of heat, nothing like tabasco or sriracha. The white sauce is tasty but I stay away because it looks like pure saturated fat. You don't need me to tell you this is not a very healthy meal - but I bet you'll find a way to rationalize eating it frequently once you've tried it.
The only way to end the night out in NYC. Enjoy.
This is the one place I MUST eat every time I visit NYC. I should've come here more often when I was living here... Good news is - they are now open 24 hours! Yay! We went around 3 pm and there was still a 30-mins wait, so don't go hungry like I always do and expect there to be no line. That only happens in dreams. Their chicken here is cooked perfectly soft and moist, with just enough flavor. The lamb is really good too, but if you're not a lamb person, you will leave happy and full with just chicken over rice too. For sauces, I get both white and red because the white is simply heaven and makes everything taste better and the red is down right hot. One time I accidentally added too much red sauce and I ended up adding spoonfuls of tzatziki sauce to balance out the spiciness. So don't be an overachiever just because you can handle a level 10 at a thai restaurant. And you won't be able to finish it in one setting. Just warning ya!
Seriously delicious~~ and still $6 since 2009! I just finished my bowl of lamb and rice and it was sooo satisfying~ My sister has been bringing this over from her last couple NY trips and lmtu...it's darn delicious and sooo worth it! Thanks sis! haha And trust me...the other halal carts are not the same...others are dry and bland. If you don't get it...I feel bad for your stomach because your tongue is useless.
This place is the Obama of food carts. Lots of young people lining up to support but they don't know why. The exact same food as available from 100 other carts around the city. I think these are the same people who line up at Shake Shack.
This is totally over rated...dry chicken, boring rice; hospital food is better!. The only good thing is that it's open in the middle of the night, period.
It's $6 for like... 2 pounds of food. Where else are you going to find that in New York? This place was pretty good and I was stuffffffffed and wasn't even halfway finished. The spicy sauce is seriously no joke. But I don't really know what separates food carts from each other since I think they all taste about the same. I will say that this is the only food cart where you can smell the food from like 2 blocks away.
White sauce and lots of it (; At first I was very skeptical when i got the food. I mean how can this be as amazing as people say. At first I thought it was just hype. Then I put in the sauce and tasted my first bite. It's like orgasm in my mouth. Okay, it's not but it was delicious and I'm a believer. Must go and try if you're in NYC ! Don't ?be deterred by the long line. It's worth it, I promise!(:
This cart is infamous for many reasons. People can hate on them, and I totally understand why. If you judge their chicken and rice solely based on flavor then I would say it's lacking. But people don't love this place for the flavor. I'm going to try to ?explain the reasons why we keep coming back for more. The line: the experience alone will make it that much more exciting The hours: it's always open, you can have some before and after you go out The pita: no one's giving you pita on your platter The sauce: you can add as much sauce as you please, that's unheard of The portions: for $6, the girls can share a combo The crowd: you wanna be part of the in, that's just pure psychology The experience: one of a kind
This cart used to have a 5 star rating for me when the meat was cooked in front of you and not pulled out the back of a truck in foil trays. Also when you could put your platter down for a while and the rice not solidify do to the amount of grease they cook with. If you have never been its a spot to try, ?just so you know what the hype is about but, in all honesty the food is barely OK for a sober palate. And its really easy to understand why so many ppl love it after a night of drinking. It's greasy food and when your drunk nothing else could possibly taste better. Seriously though if your sober you most likely will not enjoy the amount of oil in your rice let alone the meat. And if you really insist on going get the lamb and rice. Lamb is seasoned and just the perfect crisp. Chicken tastes like pieces of boiled chicken with no seasoning at all. Make sure you try the white sauce with your platter and a little bit of hot sauce. Be careful with the hot sauce though. Its ridiculously hot. Oh and the place across the street (6th) is owned by the same guys. They even take turns working both carts so don't be a fool and wait on line an extra hour and a half because the food is no different. They pull the meat out of the same truck. And if you talk to the guys at either cart they will tell you the same too.
11:00am: WHERE IS THE TRUCK!!!!!!!!!! 11:03am: Cart is spotted crossing 53rd. 11:15am: order placed 11:20am: sweet, sweet victory. I was concerned the daytime truck was not going to be the same as the nighttime one, but it tasted pretty much the same to me! The yellow bag and "look me up on facebook" said it all. Im happy to make this cart a continuous go-to for each trip I make into the city.
overrated. may be I was one of the very few unlucky ones who got plated slightly bland (and cold) chicken, over rice. don't be put off by the queue as it moves rather quickly!!! white sauce was great. red sauce was murderous. oh well, at least, now I could tell my friends that I have tried the famous 53rd 6th Halal Cart.
Their is a halal cart on every block. How do you know which one is the best? Good thing we have yelp right? This is the only halal cart that gets reviewed and their is a good reason for that. They are incredibly good! Now I know what you are thinking. What is so great about chicken and rice? I thought the same thing too until I started eating. My friends said you must have the right proportions of red and white sauce. The red sauce was a hot sauce typically found in Mexican food. The white sauce though is a mystery. It could have been a tzatziki sauce, but it tasted a little different. All I know is I am suppose to mix in lots of white sauce and a little bit of red sauce. After my mixology lesson was done I take a bite. Then I take another bite... and another... and another. Wow so good! My friend told me to stop eating, but I wouldn't. I couldn't! My heart told me no, but my mouth kept saying yes yes yes! Simply delicious!!! For six bucks you sure get a lot of food. Although I have not tried other halal carts I don't think I want to. They are the king of all halal carts!
the lineup was long, but went relatively fast. ?waited 25 minutes on a sunday evening. tasted especially good because it was $6! get the white and red sauce!
We came here last night after clubbing. ?From where I'm from (Houston, TX), bars close at 2 AM, so by the time 3 AM hit and everyone's still going strong, we started getting tired and decided to grab a bite. ?Weak, I know! ?But, it worked out in our favor because there was barely a line when we arrived. ? Lemme tell ya.. this place is worth the hype! ?We got the chicken and lamb over rice and drenched it in red and white sauce. ?I'm a beast when it comes to eating spicy food, but this red sauce really beat me up. ?Without getting too much into details, it hurt the next day. ?The combination of all the ingredients went perfectly together. ?I was also really impressed with how efficient these guys were and had everything down like a well-oiled machine. ? The wifey couldn't stop talking about going again today, so I'll probably visit these guys again in a few hours.
Saturday, 11:30am, no line (really??), in the neighborhood.... I had to finally give it a try. For $6, you definitely get a hefty portion. One portion is good for 2 meals, at least for me. If you don't have much of an appetite, you could definitely share one order between 2. I went with chicken and lamb over rice, and it was good! I usually don't like chicken, but this wasn't bland or dry. Definitely a good place to grab a quick bite (when there's no line!).
Yummy yummy! The red sauce is SPICY. The guys are super nice. No wonder they have over two thousand reviews!
after landing in JFK..my cousins insisted that I get me some Halal Guys ASAP!!!!! Eating this at midnight couldn't have been any better! red sauce = SUPER spicy..get more of the creamy white sauce to cool your mouth ;) hard to pinpoint a time when the line isn't long...sometimes I walk by and the line is a block down...sometimes there are only 4-5 people in line~ I can use me some Chicken+Rice right now!
Best Chicken and Rice in NYC! There's a halal cart on almost every block in Manhattan, but none of them have a line down the block. The combination of the white sauce and the flavor of the chicken/lamb differentiates them from any other carts in the city. Use the red sauce sparingly, a couple drops goes a long way. The carts are located under the Hilton Hotel. $6 for a plate of chicken and rice. Be ready with your order as the guys shuffle you along the assembly line. Definitely worth the wait in line!
It's just something you can't leave New York without trying. A dish that has been cooked this many times for so many people has to have something really right about it.
Lots of meat, rice, and salad for an inexpensive amount. Depending on the day, the season, and the time of day counts when you stand in line to get food from the halal cart. The chicken and rice is pretty tasty and you can gorge your food with limitless amounts of white sauce, brown sauce, but be careful of the hot sauce. A lot of hot sauce can make your food possibly inedible. That happened to me and my friend a few times because we dared each other. You have been warned.
It's true what they say. It's true that you have to wait in line no matter what time of day it is. It's true that your stomach will not thank you if you put too much red sauce on it. It's true that you get a lot of food (lamb + chicken + rice + salad + pieces of pita) for $7 dollars. In summary, everything you've heard about this place is true! Without the sauces, it's a bit on the "dry" and "bland" side, but with the sauces (and perhaps some alcohol in your body) this place will quickly turn into "amazing". Also, the yelp hours are kind of off...decided to go there at lunch to see if they were open and sure enough, they were. ?I'd update the hours but I have no idea if they're just open at all times....cause that's what it seems like!
Of course I had to track down the famous 53rd & 6th halal cart while I was in New York... Best street food I've had & definitely worth the wait & price. ?There are halal carts all over the city, but their motto is true...the Halal Guys are different. When I got to their location, I was super confused because there was another halal cart on the other side of the street also using yellow bags. ?My friend got chicken over rice there to compare. ?The chicken tasted the same but the rice was different & you don't get pita bread. The lines were long-ish for both halal carts however - not too crazy though. ?I probably waited 15-20 min, definitely doable. You can figure out which is the right cart by looking at the website linked on here - they changed their bags and T-shirts to say "the Halal Guys" but the slogan "We are different" is still there. I ordered half chicken, half gyros over rice with white & hot sauce. The hot sauce is pretty spicy, so I only recommend if you really like spicy food... Otherwise the food is plenty flavorful without it. I liked the chicken well enough, but next time I will probably get just gyros with white sauce. Overall, the food was cheap & delicious. ?Within the category of street food, this halal cart is definitely my favorite.
This place gives me such nostalgia for my days in New York. The company I was working for had an office in the UBS building which is steps away from this cart. As I walked from the office to the Hilton on the same street, the wafting smells of caramelizing spicy sauce, crisping slivers of pita bread, and juicy chunks of shawarma came together in a tantalizingly irresistible aroma of mouthwatering goodness. I dunno what other people order here, but I always got the medley where they mixed cut up pita bread, shawarma, rice and dump all of it on the grill and turn it into a hash. Then I would ask them to add extra of the white and red sauce. This dish is life changing. I try to replicate it at home, but of course it never comes out like it does on a flat top. Anyway, mind blowing. Anyone who says a word less about this dish should get a tongue transplant. I miss you 53rd & 6th!!!!!!
It's the spot... enough said. ?There is a reason why these guys have a line of customers waiting at ALL times where all the other carts around town are sitting around waiting for a customer. ?If you're in the mood for hala food, this is the place to eat it at.
How can you come to New York and NOT try this. It's the essence of the New York experience. Luckily this was only a block away from my hotel so I didn't have to go far to try it. It was so good that I had it on multiple occasions on the same trip. The first time I got the chicken on rice with their white sauce and just a little of the hot sauce. They don't give you any warning, but that hot sauce is HOT!!! I just had a dab of it and it was enough for my whole meal. They give you a lot of food for $6, which in New York, it's even more rare to find anything for under $10. On my second visit, I got the combo plate (chicken and lamb). I was worried about the lamb tasting too heavy, but it was excellent. I recommend anyone visiting or living in New York and haven't tried them before to give it a shot, you will not be disappointed.
We traveled from California to New York for vacation a couple years ago, and stopped by this great cart multiple nights. The food is fantastic, I love the late hours! Be warned, the sauce is spicy!! Oh, so delicious!!!
Amazing and worth the wait, although the same vendors operate at least two carts usually and the less busy one is on the south east corner of the 53rd and 6th intersection. Highly recommend flooding your meal with their delightful white sauce, although, as other reviewers have cautioned, a tiny bit of their hot sauce goes a very very long way. Food tastes best at 4 AM in the morning when you're still inebriated from your night out :P
Based on all the raving reviews, adding mine seems futile. Nevertheless, I shall share my two cents! Having been working in NYC for nearly a year and hearing nothing but praise about this place, I had to try it out. It was Friday 6:30 pm, slightly drizzling, my stomach craving for only small portion. With only one person ahead in line surprisingly, got the gyro in 2 min. The guys accommodate your needs: extra veggies, more or less of their 2 signature sauces: white and VERY red hot. For $4, the quick meal was heavenly! Of note, when I walked a block up to 54th St, I see the same Halal guys but with 20-30 people waiting in line. Next time I visit the area, I will try their signature lamb and chicken combo platter and maybe wait in line 15-30 mins just for the experience. Until my next review update, 5 stars hands down!
Beware of the red hot sauce. Chicken and rice rocks
it's true everything that i've read, heard, saw pictures are all true. ?if you're making a stop in new york, then you must have halal cart on your list. It's not just about the exceptional, let me say this again so it's emphasized: EXCEPTIONAL food, it's about the location of the cart. ?You meet some interesting people in line and see cabs whizzing by and the drunks stumble out of the cab. ?It's like being a tourist in your own city or being a tourist in the city that never sleeps. In my short trip to ny, i went there twice. ?The first time was after i asked a bartender to marry me (see review for angel share) and the second was to bring back the combo plate to seattle. ?I didn't realize you could bring the white sauce back (sigh) or else i would have brought back a whole bag. unless you've been to halal cart, you wouldn't understand the deliciousness of that white sauce. ?It's that suace that makes this place stand out. ?I want to go swimming in this white sauce and pour it on everything. ?It's like a mixture between ranch, tahini and taziki (sp) sauce. ? i also foudn that the best time to get here is at 3:15. right before last call!
This was fantastic, order a combo plate with extra white sauce and a cup of hot sauce. ?You can't go wrong with tasty "lamb" and chicken on top of the bright yellow rice! ? We came here and picked up lunch after the Macy's parade and I'm finding myself still craving the creamy gravy tzaziki-like sauce and the spicy kick the red sauce gives!
Awesome famous place! Great chicken and rice, but I still feel the best is Sammys in the West Village! Despite what the tourists say!
I don't know what it is about this particular cart but it's just so damn disgustingly good. Saturday night and the 2 carts on both sides of 6th ave has already formed a line. The white sauce is like a drug that you want to drench your order in. The red sauce is so potent that 6 small drops will give your dish the right amount of kick without killing your tongue. The cart has a steady flow of customers around the clock. Hits the spot for the late night munchies after a night out. The line can be intimidating sometimes, but it moves fairly fast. Worth the wait.
Don't be intimidated by the line here, it moves very fast. ?This was probably one of the best deals I got while in NYC last week. ?Only $6 for a ton of food, couldn't finish it. ?On top of that, it was freakin' awesome! ?Be careful with the hot sauce though, it's very hot and can be dangerous. ?I wish they had something like this down in Charleston.
After the Giants won the Super Bowl, my friend who just graduated medical school suggested we walk a few blocks and get some food at the 53rd and 6th "Famous chicken and rice" cart. ?All I gotta say, is that this place hits the spot. ?A classic flavor of New York City and American immigrant life. ?Hard-working people, great street food, working all hours day and night. ?Very much loved the chicken and the flavored yellow rice. ?Add a generous portion of BBQ, horseradish or VERY HOT sauce and it completes the meal. ?Be warned though, that hot sauce can be very, very spicy so go easy on it...even if you love the spicy food. If you find yourself in midtown Manhattan and you're a tourist, you have to check out this street cart. ?Long time New Yorkers who go out and get the bagel/coffee in the mornings or the hot dogs/kabobs in the afternoons and evenings, you would be remiss if you haven't dined here yet as well. ?Bar crawlers-- You will not regret coming here, who cares how cold it is, that doesn't matter. ?The fact that it was early February and near freezing helped us out for the sole fact there weren't terribly long lines we had to deal with. ?From what I hear, these lines can wrap around the block...but this is one of those places that's worth the wait. ?If you've been to those type of places, then this is a line you definitely need to get in.
This was delicious. I had the combo platter and I was very surprised. So a really good friend of mine at home in San Jose can only eat Halal and we have to keep that in mind when we go out to eat. It always ends up being sushi or some pretty bad Halal asian place. Man, I wish they had this cart here in San Jose. Now that the food truck thing is big, maybe you guys should start a food truck here. :)
there is NOTHING better at 4am after drinking way too much. i've even had a sober friend try it and he says it's one of the best things he's ever eaten, so there's your real testament. definitely get the chicken and rice plate. it's simple,delicious, and as the name implies it comes with chicken and rice. it also has a few slices of pita and a little bit of lettuce. the lettuce is especially key when trying to extinguish the fire in your mouth from their hot sauce. i love hot sauce and spicy food but this thing is on a whole other level. i personally can't do it. it's no joke like straight fire, i can't taste any other flavor than the heat. DO NOT make the mistake of smothering your food with it before you try it cause i've witnessed many a tragedy. the white sauce (no spice at all) is great and i stick with using plenty of that. and be prepared to witness a drunken mistake or two on this corner! (the halal food not being one of them just to clarify)
MUST GO! ?This cart lives up to the hype!! ?Get the chicken over rice and then drown it in white & red sauce. ?Ok I'm done, now go!!
out of all the food i had on my week long vacation in NY and the tons of money that i spent, this was by far the tastiest thing i had in NY. halal cart -chicken and lamb combo with tons of white sauce and hot sauce. i love spicy food and i can barely ever find anything that is truly spicy and the hot sauce is pretty legit hot so beware spice noobs! i will eat this every time i go to NY.
Yup, it's bomb. They give you so much moist chicken and perfectly cooked rice for $6. And we haven't even mentioned the sauce yet, even though I think I could eat just the perfectly prepped chicken and rice. The white sauce and spicy sauce are to die for and surprisingly didn't cause stomachache (I have a sensitive stomach when it comes to fast food). The white sauce is not too creamy or heavy (may be a yogurt base?) and the spicy sauce has quite the kick. So glad I made it to the cart. The 20-person line was only a 10 minute wait by the way!
Yes, this is a Yelp for a Halal Cart, which has been described by the other 2500+ reviewers as the best Halal in the city and I'd have to agree. ?I mean, they even wear matching yellow t-shirts that say "The Halal Guys" on them. ?How much more authentic can you get when it comes to Halal? ? After spending a few hours in Hell watching B&T skanks dance, ride bulls and do other strange things B&T peeps do (Johnny Utahs) my boyfriend and I worked up an insatiable hunger. ?We hadn't eaten since earlier that day, so as we walked by a few Halal carts he kept trying to stop me, but I told him we must walk onward to 53rd and 6th. ?I think he was a little skeptical, but I've heard such good things about this cart that I had to try it out. ?We decided to share the chicken dish, which was enormous and definitely enough for two people. ?We doused it in the spicy sauce and then needed lots of white sauce to cool it down. ?Anyway, this definitely hit the spot at 1am and on the odd occasion I'm in Midtown East late at night I will be hitting up The Halal Guys again!
OH-EM-GEE OFF THE HOOK! ?Had the chicken and rice the other night at like 4 a.m, and yes the line was LONG at that time also! lol. Get it with the white sauce and bbq sauce and you be open like a 7/11!!!! Mmmmmm was awesome the ?next day too! No, every halal cart isn't this good!
This place is the bomb! The white and red sauces?! Dont even think, just cover your whole plate with it! No need to be conservative.. heck, put some in your pocket, the sauce is an integral part of this partnership of food goodness. I liked the lamb, the lady liked the chicken.. why not try half and half! If you go to NY. You have to stop by this place, no choice, just...go......go.... Heck, just fly now!
This place is really good, affordable, and friendly! You can tell that a place is legit when you see a crowd of people lined up for food on a cart! Make sure you look for the guys in yellow shirts so you don't be fooled by other carts on the same street. They do a really good job at branding themselves with matching shirts, reusable bags for purchase, and signage. About the food: They give you a lot of food, which is amazing. One plate ($6) will feed 2 people or 2 meals for one person. This is probably the one place that will give you more meat than rice. I really liked the chicken. The lamb was ok, it definitely has a distinguished taste to it, but I think most guys will like it. The white sauce is good. It tastes like ranch but much much richer - just don't over do it or else you will get sick of the food fast. Be careful about the red sauce, you'll choke on it if you put too much on the first bite - super spiccyyyyyy but good. Anyways, be ready to get addicted. It really is that good. YUMM! Note to self, eat sparingly and don't over sauce.
More like 4.5 stars but I will not round up. -I am a native new yorker and believe it or not last month was the first time I ever tried the food here. ?I had passed by the place 10,000 times I am sure over the years. ?They are one of the first businesses in generally to get their food spot on the internet. ?That was years ago, you know they were featured in a Seinfeld episode and everything. -It is kind of a tourist trap, you really should not be waiting all this time just for food. ?The line was not that bad the night I was here, still long enough though. ?However, I really enjoyed it and the night I did come here after one of the MOMA's free friday nights, I loved what I got. ?It was $6 got the lamb over rice and it comes with some pita bread as well. ?I was going to get lamb and falafel over rice, that would have been $7. ?Maybe next time, I will check that I just wanted to kind of get out of there. ? - The lamb plate was pretty fantastic. ?I got to really enjoy the white sauce on it as well. ?THEY give you packs in the to-go variety. ?I have had much better white sauce though at other places. This one was very basic and bland but still helped me to enjoy the meal. I also tried the hot sauce and it is hot as hell I would say. ?I have eaten a lot of hot sauce in the past but this one attacked my mouth, not as awful as some other hot sauce from New Orleans but it was bad. ?I had to buy a water from somewhere else before I finished the rest of my food. ?The food overall was great and I could not believe I had been missing out of this all this time. ?Haha, now I will be a repeat customer, maybe at least twice a month. ?I have also sampled the chicken from a friend's platter. I preferred the lamb but in most cases at Halal spots- I do order the lamb over the chicken.
This place is a bargain for NY considering the amount of food you get. ?You better know what you want because I didn't see a menu and they move fast!!! I never had Halal before and it was a very solid meal. ?I didn't think that the white sauce was anything extraordiary (tastes like ranch) but it did add flavor to the dish. ?My suggestion is to order 1 dish if you are sharing it with someone like me who has a limited capacity to handle large amounts of food.
Whenever I visit NY, this is my first stop and usually my last stop before heading back to LA. I don't have anything else to add since the other Yelpers have pretty much said it all, but I LOVE THIS PLACE!!! I love this place so much that I had it 3x on the first day I landed in NY.
Not too much can be said that the other 2,500+ haven't already mentioned! Just make sure you visit the Halal Guys cart, and if you're not sure just go to the cart with the longest line! The chicken over rice has definitely lived up to its hype! The white sauce is awesome, chicken and rice was packed with flavor, but be careful the hot sauce is pretty hot!! They give you plenty to fill you up for $6.00, super cheap compared to everything else in NYC! I would've gave it 5 stars but I had to knock off one for their falafels, it didn't taste fresh, was hard and stale. Other than that, YOU MUST HAVE CHICKEN OVER RICE ATLEAST ONCE IF YOU COME VISIT NEW YORK! I regret not getting it one more time before I left, as I am still craving it right now.
Won't say much since there's like 2,500+ reviews already.. But, I will say that yes, it's a must try thing when you come to NYC and although it's good, it just wasn't "OMFG HOLY SHIT I NEED ME SOME CHICKEN & RICE NOW!! NOWWW!!!!!! OR I DIE!!!!!!!!!!!". Hence,my 4 stars.
$6 for a heaping plate of chicken over rice, delightful white sauce, soft pita bread and veggies -- this cart is to-die-for. I've been twice now, the second time I had to make a trip to the Hilton hotel, and couldn't resist stopping by. You won't be disappointed. The line moves fast (ish) and at night, when it gets extra busy, they setup a second street cart just to cook meat (yay for efficiency!). Give it a try, you won't regret it.
staying at the Westin Time Square, read reviews about this cart and told myself I'm going. ate breakfast at 10:30 and started my walk, got there not really hungry but went for the combo anyway. Lamb and Chicken cooked to perfection and makes you wonder why so many resturants serve bad food with full sized kitchens and these guys do it on a cart. Not sure what the white sauce is but very good and ask for the red sauce on the side it has good heat.
Worth the wait and dirt cheap! ?The mix plate is my favorite. ?Go easy on the hot sauce, seriously.
On our last evening in NYC, our friend told us about the Halal cart and how good the chicken and rice with white sauce is. She talked it up so much that we had to try it. ?As we walked to the location, she pointed out imposter Halal carts which supposedly are not as good as the location at 53rd St. and 6th Ave. ?I guess other people know that because there are few people in line for the imposter carts. We approached the real deal and there was a long line, but the line moves fast. ?The chicken and rice also includes lettuce and pita bread. We asked for extra white sauce (not sure what it is, but it's good!) and you should too because it really makes the meal. The portions are generous (could easily be two meals) and only $6! ?Given that we spent a lot of our money in NYC on food, it was nice to finally have a value meal that was quite good. ?Extra bonus: that evening they were handing out Halal Guys tote bags which came in handy because my wife used it to carry her shopping bags aboard the plane.
White and red sauce= ranch and BBQ. There's other carts out there, folks. But nonetheless, quite tasty.
The Chicken and Rice cart is genius. For $6, you can get a huge takeout of Halal meat, rice, salad, and pita bread. It's a wonderful concoction. I think the white sauce is the secret ingredient. It makes the whole plate taste so much better. The cart opens at 7:30 PM and lines already start at around 7 PM. Here's a tip. There's a Halal cart open right across the street and there's barely any waits. It's the same as the Chicken and Rice cart that everyone else waits in line for. If you're brave enough, walk the road less traveled. You won't be disappointed. In fact, you might snicker at the rest of the people who are waiting on the other line.
BEWARE - there is a Halal cart on 53rd between 5th & 6th that is nicely spaced away from this one so that you can't see this one and think it's this one. BUT it is not! This cart, like its name suggests, is in fact on the corner of 53rd & 6th. Silly us. We were just too eager to try it that we ignored the fact the the cart in the middle wasn't in the corner and wasn't very appealing looking. The real cart smells real delicious, so if the cart you're about to go to isn't wearing a delicious scent, keep looking as it is not the one.
This food stand is definitely one of the best food I had during my New York trip. For $6, the chicken over rice is totally a great spent. We had this chicken over rice for the first time after we heard all the good things about it. We were so excited to try it and so happy that it did not disappoint us at all. We ordered a chicken and lamb combo over rice and a gyro for dinner. The total was like $10 but we could not even finish it after two meals. The chicken and lamb were nicely flavored and cooked. The meats were perfect for the rice. I loved their rice with flavors and tenderness. Their white sauce was also one of the kind and perfect with the meat and rice. My friends love to add LOTS of white sauce on the rice but I prefer to have only some white sauce on. Either way it all tasted very good!! I also requested to have their red spicy sauce which was quite spicy but went very very well with their gyro and chicken over rice. I personally enjoyed their chicken over rice more than their gyro because I loved their rice so much. Their gyro was very good as well. I would recommend everyone to try this food stand for only $6!!!
Salt and pepper isn't seasoning, this food is bland and tasteless at best, however, I can see why the masses enjoy this, it's halal food that caters for the american palate, it's basically grilled chicken/lamb and rice, my friends and I are torn against each other in the great halal debate of NYC. So some of us go here and some of us go elsewhere and we meet up again after our meal. Please don't flame me, this is just my open and honest opinion. Thanks.
They have got to be the undisputed champion of the food carts. They have it all: taste (I can't stop scarfing it down), heartiness (I'm a pretty big eater and this could easily by 1.5 meals), cost (only $6 for a combo!), location (just grab a seat in front of the Charles Schwab building!). I got a lamb/chicken combo and it was amazing. There is so much lamb and chicken that it alone could probably stand as a meal, but underneath is lots of seasoned (but not too much) rice and a few pieces of pita bread. The flavor on everything is just so good. The lamb is packed full of flavor and the chicken is soft and delicate. But the piece de la resistance is that white sauce. It tastes like a ?combination of mayo and yogurt that could make anything taste delicious. WARNING - the red sauce is just pure habanero sauce, so watch out because it literally only adds hotness to the dish. I didn't realize this and poured a bunch on, only to realize my mistake too late. But I still couldn't stop eating it despite how spicy it was, that's just how good these plates are. tl;dr - get the lamb/chicken combo and lather on the white sauce
NYC is full of halal stands but they will NEVER be as good as 53rd & 6th. ?I don't know how they do it, but their platters are unsurpassed by any other vendor. ?I refuse to eat at any other halal cart bc 53rd & 6th renders everything else bad. For $6, you get a giant platter of chicken or lamb or both with rice + all the white sauce or hot sauce you want. ?I used to prefer the lamb but now I opt for the combo. The lines have gotten a lot better. ?I used to come out all the way from LI to NYC as a teen & wait 2hr+ for a platter. ?There's still usually a line but it has never been that long anymore. ?Come here whenever -- lunch, drunk munchies -- you'll be full & satisfied. ?beeteedubs don't worry about sanitary issues -- been a faithful customer for years & never sick =) Also if you go to college in NYC -- you might be able to get them to bring a cart over to your college event. ?The cart used to make special visits to the Columbia campus for club events =)
My favorite food to eat in the CITY. This is one of the HYPE that I can say is TRUE and you will agree. Everytime I head out to the city to eat, it is a MUST get for me. I am lucky to never having to wait in a long crazy line for this food truck, but if I had to wait, it is well worth it. I always order the half chicken and half lamb with their hot sauce spread all over it and I am not lying when I say spread all over. ?I even had a thought in my crazy head of mine to ask if I can buy a bottle of hot sauce -___- I also spread some of the white sauce which is awesome as well The PRICE is not so bad either. $6 bucks for a huge plate of your option of chicken or lamb or even both over orange rice with lettuce and pita bread strips. Note: I spread a lot of hot sauce because I love and live for spicy food but truth is...this sauce is beyond spicy. ?I say add some, try it first to see if you can handle it and if you want more hot sauce than add more. ?You can always go back to the truct to add more of the hot sauce or even the white creamy sauce. ?The white cream sauce is really good with the pita bread
Believe the hype! Six bucks for a big ass plate of lamb and chicken over some crazy looking orange rice! Sign me up baby, and believe me when I say they don't skimp on anything here. They just pile it on high then throw in a few pita strips to top it off. Once they hand you your plate you MUST smother it with the white sauce then drizzle the really really hot stuff over the top. ?I'm talking the super spicy stuff, not the brown sauce. ?You'll notice a reddish tint to the sauce, so pay attention because its dark out there. ?Yeah its a tad spicy but it really brings the dish together. and works well with the white sauce. ?Not to mention that it will warm you up a bit when its 2 in the morning and about 30 degrees outside. On a side note the Halal Guys just around the corner are the same dudes and make the same grub. ?On my first visit I tried the OG cart with the long line, then followed it with the other cart the next day and there was no difference. ?I even spoke with the guy manning the grill and he said they were the same dudes. ?Just throwing that out there in case you're in a rush.
Best food cart in the city. I had the combo platter with white sauce and a little bit of the ? extremely spicy red sauce. All I have to say is I will never get tired of this food.
this is def the best halal stand you can find in NYC. it's amazing. Nothing compares to it. beware of the hot sauce! it's ridiculously spicy! and of course big lines. ?last time i went there, the line was only about 15 people or so and it took about 10-15 mins for us to get to the front. ?this stuff is def worth it.
Better than any normal halal cart, plain and simple. ?Wanted to get it for dinner after eating it for lunch, but didn't have time.
It was my first time trying chicken and rice (I'm a maryland-er) this past weekend. It was so good. I got the combo which was chicken and lamb. I definitely drenched my dish with the yogurt sauce. Best $6 I have ever spent. I couldn't finish my dish, so I left it for the next day and it tasted just as good as the night before!
This is probably the best meal you could get in NYC for the price. I've been here several times and the food is AMAZING! One thing you have to do for sure is get the white sauce!!! It really makes the meal, I personally like the chicken but you could get it with lamb, mix of both, or vegetarian which I believe they just started making. I've never gotten the vegetarian myself but like I said, they know what they're doing here. One thing: There is always definitely a line and wait at this place although it moves pretty quickly.
I've been going here for nearly a decade now, and it's been open a lot longer than that. ?And what is even more amazing than the popularity, is that the food has been consistently amazing this whole time. The lamb is the way to go, as it tastes so good & savory even though it is so cheap and coming from such an odd location. ?My personal fav is to get the lamb & rice without any lettuce so I can get a bit more room for tasty food :). ?And another slight recommendation is to get orange soda to go along with the gyro; it just fits. ?Just remember that this, "amazing" refers not to a gourmet restaurant, but to an incredibly tasty $6 plate at 330am, while you're with your good friends. ? Go here, now. ?You'll be very happy you did and you'll be writing your own Yelp review soon enough.
What is there to say that hasn't already been said about 53rd & 6th Halal? ?I'll save you the redundancy. Let me just say, that of all the Halal I've ever eaten in New York City... 53rd & 6th is the only one that has NEVER.. NEVER sent me to the bathroom a few hours later. ?And I've eaten it on more than a few occasions. ?The reason is unknown, and that's fine with me. In summary, go here. ?6 bucks for happiness.
Never thought I'd be in love with STREET MEAT! The combo plate with chicken and lamb was absolutely out of this world! Gotta get lots of hot sauce and white sauce. The guys are super friendly and love what they do, I can tell! :) Don't go to any other cart, this one is well worth the wait! It's so obvious that they are good, no other cart has a long line like this one. If you're gonna try it out, might as well try the best! Yum!!! I can't wait to go back to NYC for more! :)
My daughter and I had the combo plates on our last night. ?So tasty! ?We have been walking by the crowds at this cart all week, and promised ourselves this would be our last meal here. ?Beware of the hot sauce....hot, but oh so good with tons of the white sauce.....mmmmmm
I really don't understand why anyone would give this place anything less than 5 stars. YUM!!!
Gone out of my way multiple times just to eat at this cart. If you like this type of food and are on the fence about going. DO IT. Well with your time and money as you get a ton of food for only $6 (Their famous chicken/lamb with rice)
I'm finally getting around to writing a review about these guys because I recently had their food IN DAYLIGHT and at NORMAL EATING HOURS. All other times, I was not in a proper state to judge their food properly. You know the guys are doing something right when there's always a line, whether it be at 6pm or 3am. I promise you that it's the best $6-$10 you can spend within a 10 block radius. I always get the combo (Chicken & lamb) over the rice with white sauce and BBQ sauce. The secret is in their white sauce. Who knows what it is, but it's thick and creamy and tastes suspiciously like mayo. (TWSS). Ask for extra white sauce if counting calories & dieting aren't your thing. If you can't handle spicy stuff, DO NOT GO ANYWHERE NEAR THE HOT SAUCE.
Good portions, good prices, tastes pretty good.
This food is great. We asked our taxi driver for the best street side vendor in the middle of the night. We wanted to try one of the kiosks to see what all the fuss was about. And there was a lot of "fuss", about 50 people in length on the line. ?The line went fast and the food was superb. ?The guys are organized, Polite & Patient. ?No big egos, just hard working people making good food. ?Not oily and no dry spice flavor. Just pure natural flavors from the meat, sauce and lettuce and tomatoes that accompanied it. ?I can't wait to enjoy it again when we return.
What more can I say that hasn't been said. ?I can't write or think about this anymore. i'm salivating already. ?ahaha
My fiance and I were really excited to get back to NYC and try the famous chicken and rice cart. ?We live in DC, and there are a couple of metro halaal food carts here that we really love, so we had extreme expectations for the famouse 53rd and 6th cart. We did wait in line to receive our combos -- which was fine, you expect a line at a famous foodery, right? ?The service was also good/prompt -- we were provided our order immediately. ?Where I fail to see the 'greatness' was the actual tasting of the food. ?We both sauced our meals with the white and red. ?I was told prior that the red sauce was so blazingly hot that I wouldn't be able to take it. ?Perhaps I picked up the wrong red bottle that evening, because I didn't taste the heat at all. The meat was cooked fine, as well as the rice. ?The added bonus of the naan is really great when you're hankering for some bread. ?However, we both felt that the dish was lacking in flavor, especially when we've heard so much hype about this place. ?Next time, we'll probably just head over to kati roll company instead :)
How much to franchise this cart? We could make loads of money over here on the West Coast. We'll give you one In-N-Out location for a cart. Deal?
My first impression of halal was that it looks like a burrito bowl. With the choice of lamb or chicken, this is thrown on top of a bed of rice and lettuce and piled with the white yogurt sauce and hot sauce. The hot sauce was actually pretty spicy so unless you wanted a taste-bud shocking experience, tone it down on the hot sauce. The portion was actually pretty decent, enough to share between two and maybe get a small snack elsewhere. If this is your first time also, I highly recommend doing half chicken and lamb to get a taste of both and see which one you like more if you were ever to come back again. I wouldn't say this is better than the burrito bowls at Chipotle, but for being open super late and the convenient location, and also cheap price of course, I can understand why the line always wraps around the block.
I didn't know what the hype was all about, obviously because I wasn't eating at the right halal cart. My life was totally changed after that Chicken Over Rice I ordered. I took it home, giddy to open it and eat it immediately. I poured on the creamy sauce and then made sure to put a few dots of the hot sauce on and dug in. It was heaven in my sober mouth! There is not much else to say about this, you must go and try it yourself. And don't forget, all of the carts with the guys in yellow shirts are the same, so if you see a line at one, go to the other. And most importantly, if you don't or can't stand spicy, I'd say use the hot sauce very very VERY sparingly because you're in for a huge surprise if you just dump it on.
The Halal guys on the corner of 53rd and 6th ?is definitely a new york institution and on the list of places to eat for all the visitors. ?While it's generally a late night post-drinking snack, it is just as good any time of the day. ?I stay as far away from the red sauce as I can, but the white sauce is like magic. ?For $6, ?you get a huge plate of rice, meat (i usually just get the chicken
with halal carts all over NYC, this one is just all hype and no taste. Its just quantity food not quality. It tastes no better then most halal carts food stands. I have had cart food form many halal carts before and find very ordinary and quite bland compared to some others. Not to mention the long line. Why would anyone wait this long to get food that you can get anywhere else in NYC is beyond me. wait- because of the false hype!Trust me-lived here 5 yrs now. Save your time and eat at some other Halal cart.
SO GOOD, SO CHEAP. Like a lot of other people, I was also skeptical about this place. What makes this place so good? And what's so great about chicken and rice? Sounds meh to me. So I didn't bother to eat there until the last day I was in NYC. What a mistake. It definitely did not disappoint! It's only $6 for one chicken and rice, which comes with white sauce and spicy red sauce, both super yummy (but careful, the red sauce is pretty damn spicy). There was a line when my boyfriend and I came, but it went pretty fast, so don't be discouraged. Of all the places in New York that we ate at during our one-week stay, this is our top recommended place. If you're going to NYC, you gotta have this.
everytime i leave you, I miss you Halal Cartman.
At first, I was a bit skeptical because I'm from California and seeing that there's Halal Carts EVERYWHERE in NY, I was kind of like "What makes this one so great?" Nonetheless, I decided to wait in the huge line to see what the hype was all about. I got the chicken and lamb mix, added their white sauce and spicy sauce, took a bite, and then realized what the hell everybody was raving about. I can't explain how satisfied I was after eating that meal and how much I can't stand the other carts I was going to before; this place definitely puts it down and is definitely worth the wait. For $6 and all that delicious food, you can't go wrong. PS. Don't forget it's a food truck so they only take cash (I thought it was obvious but the guy in front of me was bitching that he waited in this long line and only had card *shake my head*)
When you see a long line from a food cart near the streets, you'll know you found it. ?It's right down from MOMA. This place is just to fill my tummy after MOMA nearby. ?As you notice from other reviews here, the cost of it is cheap, taste is plain as can be (like a body builder's diet), but it's the big bowl of servings that gets people coming here, and a long line but quick. Didn't get the chance to finish the complete bowl because I was full, and I needed to go back to the hotel to empty my waste (since MOMA was closed and it's extremely hard to find public restrooms with more than one toilet). How the heck you New Yorkers do it with very few public restrooms?
Went back last time I was in the big apple and I really have to say it's still the best tasting meats out of all the carts. ?The spicy sauce is still really spicy and very good... the white sauce is really delicious as always. ?Only complaint this time? ?They really skimped on the rice... Seriously, my friend got maybe 2 tablespoons of rice, and I only got maybe one tablespoon of rice... I really love carbs and this is no exception... not cool dudes.
Ok so I was a huge fan. ?I loved this cart. ? Years ago I would go any chance I would be in NYC. Sooo here's the experience.... ? It's new years eve and we just got out of a concert and my boyfriend looks at me (since i've been talking about it for over a year now but he's never been) and says "lets do your cart". ?I jump for joy, how thoughtful right? We get there and the line is long, but that is to be expected. I'm thrilled. ?There are two young girls in the line behind us and they look at us and the one girl goes "how excited are you right now!?!?" We wait in line (the girls behind us jump in front with their buddies). ?We went with a combo platter. ?I poured on the extra white and just a dab of the hot. Sit down near by and take our first bite. ?Its dry. ?I mix it around a little bit more grab a bite different than the first... meh. We both kept trying, and there was just something different than what I remember. ?It was dry. The white sauce was still phenomenal - but as for the rest of the meal it was just ok.
Good when you're drunk, not so good the next day. It's also a ton of food and better to share with a friend.
This is the BEST halal cart in the city. +amazing chicken and rice +amazing hot sauce +amazing white sauce Be warned though, the hot sauce is SUPER spicy! Use with caution or you'll be shitting fire the next day (I kid you not)!
OMG I've been craving the chicken plate ever since I came back from my vacation!! 5 stars!!!
Yup....its true....6 bucks and in heaven. Probably the most popular food cart in NYC (3 food carts actually- ?one on the south west, south east corners and west side between 53rd and 52nd.) If you're hungry, this is quality delicious chicken/lamb and rice. A strangely satisfying and savory white sauce with a kickin hot sauce. You can just park it on the steps and chow down. It is a good portion, best shared for two. Just line up at the cart (there is always a line) and place your order. They pack it up and you go. Sometimes in life, the simple things are best.
Excellent chicken/gyro combination with rice and salad. ?WARNING: ?be careful with the hot sauce.
This is the ONLY food cart that I would trek from downtown to midtown for, luckily it right next to my office. BEWARE: Don't be fooled! There are many Halal carts on every corner, ?The right one is the one with the HUGE line and the name on the umbrella. Don't let the line intimidate you, the line goes quickly and it is worth the wait. I prefer getting the combination of chicken and lamb. Avoid getting chicken alone because it is dry. I love HOT Sauce, but this one is HOT HOT HOT. ? The white sauce is AMAZING, there is a bag next to the cart where you can grab extra. ?I usually grab a few, again it is AMAZING! Price 6 dollars.
NOOOO I really wanted to like this place because so many people had a lot of good things to say, but it was overhyped for me. Sadly the line is not really worth the wait because you can just walk up to any of the other ones and get the same dish... I do have to give it to them that the chicken and rice + the sauce is a great combination of flavor, but the dish itself was nothing to write home about. BUT if you've never tried it, you should try it at least once.
Ok I love this place. I am already craving it as I type this. Love the white sauce, love the rice, love, the meat, love everything. You may feel like it's not worth standing in the line, especially when you see another nearby cart with no one waiting but it's worth it!
Had the gyro and chicken mix. Comes with lettuce, some yellow rice?, and a few small pieces of pita/flat bread. Was real good, for street meat Not something I'd eat regularly Hot sauce is good - strong
A must visit when you come to NYC and definitely if you live there! I've always gotten the chicken with rice and its never let me down! I am not a lamb fan, so I cannot say if its good or not. Just we weary, the hot sauce they put on it is pretty spicy... I even ask for just a little bit and it goes a looong way! Good eats for cheap! RUN TO 53rd and 6th now to get some!!!!
Oh yeah. As everyone puts it, as addictive as crack. (Sunday afternoon around 5 was only a 10-15 minute wait! If you go around 2 AM or so it's going to be a line around the block) It's all about the combo platter (I'd probably order just the lamb platter too next time; I liked it more than the chicken) and a soda for only $7. The portion is huge and I could never eat the whole thing alone, so share with another if you're not a heavy eater. Many other people literally drowned their platter with white sauce and we didn't get that much, but do get a generous amount because that's what it's all about here. I also really loved the red sauce, but of course not too much since it's very very spicy. Just some droplets here and there over your platter. It really doesn't look like much and at first bite it might not be worth the hype, but really it's hard to stop eating once you start. I'm already craving it again.
The absolute best $4/$6 meal you'll ever eat. ?The white sauce is heavenly. ?Get the lamb, it's significantly better than the chicken, even though the chicken is good. ?I don't even like lamb and I always get it, I think it's a lamb-something else mix. ?Be careful with the hot sauce, it's very hot and not for the sensitive palate. ?When hosting friends from out of town this stop is a must.
Dropped by after a trip to the MoMA. I heard so much about it so naturally I had to take a crack at it. For $6 portion size is a great deal. If you're not that hungry you can easily split a plate with a friend. You get a circular aluminum foil filled with so much goodies. The chicken meat is pulled, subtlety yet flavorfully spiced, served up with some very tasty and perfectly cooked pilaf style rice, grilled pita strips and some lettuce. The whole wait took about 20-30 minutes on a Friday at 5 PM. White sauce is a must, red sauce is an option. Holy Halal guys that @#!& is spicy! I painfully regret that decision. A couple drops would of been just fine for me. In other news, the steps of the Charles Schwab building is the official dining room for the Halal Guys as you'll always spot at least 1 person sitting down here scarfing down the goods. Quick tip: They do have more than one cart owned by these guys so if the line is getting out of hand head over to the other carts. There's really no difference.
Of course, I heard about the famous chicken & rice at 53rd and 6th from countless friends (both local and out-of-town), so when I found out that our hotel was just 3 blocks away, I had to go get some. My drive to get chicken & rice was so strong that when my mom and brother decided they were too tired, I set off on my own to walk out there and wait in line. Miss out on chicken and rice? NOPE. I waited in what seemed like a pretty long line to me, but for less than 30 minutes (I got there at about... 9 PM?) and in no time at all, I was at the cart. Initially, I was really intimidated by the long line, especially since I was out in the city all by my lonesome. But the halal guys are very very fast. In fact, when I arrived at the cart, I was worried I'd hold up the line! $6 for a delicious plate of chicken, rice, a bit of cabbage and some pita bread. Of course, little cups of their faaaaamous white sauce and one cup of their infamous red sauce were included. I took my little yellow bag back to my hotel all excited about being able to join the ranks of chicken & rice lovers. I cracked open my plate and took a little whiff first. Smelled pretty good! (I was wary because I don't eat a lot of halal food.) I took a teeny taste of the famous white sauce and waited. Hm. It's okay. I don't know why they call it crack sauce. I poured some into the chicken and rice and started eating. Hm.... yeah, it's fine. Obviously tasty, but why are people raving about it? And then I inhaled the entire bowl while desperately scraping out the last bits of white sauce from its little to-go cup. ..... whoa. What happened? Why was the second plate that I had brought back also half empty? Did my mom and brother eat it? Nope, they had fallen asleep already. .... I had just inhaled about a plate and a half, and was very seriously contemplating licking the inside of the white sauce cup. (I'll never reveal if I did or not!) (Oh, and I did try some of the red sauce, just so I could say I tried some. YOWZA. For a girl who already can't handle spicy foods, that was a bit masochistic of me, not going to lie.) It's not a foodgasm in your mouth instantly. But you will be surprised at how fast you devour this. And for $6? Definitely a great deal. (Celebrating my 100th review! Ahh, what better way than to salivate over chicken and rice?)
A uniquely delicious food cart experience in NYC, a city with more food carts than bodegas and starbucks combined. The chicken doesn't have too much flavor in of itself, but you won't feel like you're eating week old chicken smothered in grease, unlike your typical halal cart food. Go with the combo platter (lamb and chicken), which comes with rice, pita bread, and lettuce. Drip a little hot sauce on top, add on a generous portion of the white sauce, and bam. Your taste buds will thank you. High bang for buck factor. Also, no need to wait in the long line for the original stand. They have three carts at the same block that cook up the exact same food. I suggest going to cart #2 on the south east corner of the intersection.
There's always a line but it moves pretty fast and is definitely worth the wait. The chicken/lamb and rice combo is sooo good. Also tried their falafel which I didn't really care for. But they give ?you a lot of food for just 6 bucks. Be ready with your order and cash because they do move fast. Don't forget the white sauce and the hot sauce, they're also part of the experience.
All I can say is this little stand on the corner of 6th and 53rd is banking it! It's amazing how there are other stands on the blocks surrounding it, and this place always seems to be the only one that always has a line. ?Even if you think you're on the wrong corner, just follow the crowd. ? Regardless of the long line, it moves pretty fast. ?There are 4-5 guys working at this stand, each doing a different task: meat dicer, rice/salad plate set up, pita cutter, bagger. ?There are only 3 dishes you can order from: chicken, gyro and falafel. ?I like the mix of chicken and gyro over rice. ?It's definitely a great variety of different tastes. But don't forget the magical white sauce!!! Totally makes the dish. ?And beware of the hot sauce. ?My friend thought it would be mild, meanwhile it was pretty potent. ?Her delicious NYC dish had to be thrown away because she drenched it. Take the "Caution, it's hot!" sign seriously. Overall, if you ever have a craving and/or are in the neighborhood, definitely check out this little gem of a stand. ?They're open all crazy hours on the day and night, and it's only $6 and can feed two, if you portion control. ?But if your like most Americans, just enjoy yourself.
They're not THAT amazing, but they are pretty good. The portions are bigger than other chicken and rice stands I've seen. And they give you pita bread, but the line is just too long sometimes. But you can always count on them being around during late night hours.
2,500+ reviews you cannot go wrong, so here are some pointers. Find the ?Authentic guys, you can spot them with the yellow and red umbrella. ?Posers have the same tshirts and bags, but they don't have the same umbrella. The Umbrella clearly labeled "original". ?The are located at the tip of 53rd and 6th ave, (right in front of the Hilton) any other location are the fake ones. ?The real guys come at 7pm and stay the rest of the night. ?And is usually the one with the very long line. I can pretty much polish off one order by myself but the portion is big enough to share, If you come here after painting the town red and drunk off your mind; dont bother sharing. ?If you give a little tip to the guy he can hook up your order with more sauces. The Phaal sauce is NOT for novices, skip this if you are a lightweight. Less than $20 for 2 platters and 2 drinks, this is the best deal in town. Welcome to New York
This place is overrated, the chicken is dry. Without the sauce its nothing I live by coney island avenue in brooklyn and the halal chicken over rice in paki town is 5x better than this place. We are eating halal food shouldn't the chicken or rice have some type of spice? I would think eating halal food there would be something more than just stir fried dried chicken and yellow rice.
If you're expecting the BEST HALAL EXPERIENCE OF YOUR LIFE, you're probably expecting way too much. It's just a food cart, people!! But - it is a damn good cart. For only $6, you get a big aluminum tin of chicken and/or lamb with rice, salad, and pita bread, along with some of that delicious white sauce. I've only ever been at like 2am, but I think that's when everything tastes the best!! Don't be a newb and make sure to look for the yellow circular symbol with "The Halal Guys" on it. They're not ONLY at the location across from the Hilton; there are now several carts down the street and one diagonally across the street from the Hilton. The other carts tend to be a lot less busy and it's the same food. There are a lot of fakes though, so be sure to look for their logo on the bags. The service isn't the best as the tins of chicken and rice are usually shoved into my hands but if you wanted friendly service, why are you eating from a cart in the middle of Manhattan? It's also pretty rare to find so much good food for only $6 around here. Most importantly, don't be a dick and leave your trash lying around. If you're eating around the fountain or the building areas around the carts, CLEAN UP AFTER YOURSELF. I really despise people who eat and then leave their trash as if someone's going to love cleaning up after them. Makes me want to punch them in the face/neck/gut. If you do this and someone suddenly wacks you in the face, well... you had it coming.
Likes: Gyros over rice, chicken over rice, lettuce and pita bread included, 3 sauces available: creamy white, bbq and red hot, only 6 bucks, not much of a line later at night thankfully, can sit by the fountain and risk getting your bum wet or walk a few blocks down to rockefeller plaza to enjoy your meal Dislikes: Be careful you don't accidentally go to the wrong halal cart if you want to try the original ones. ?Their umbrella says the original halal cart. ?Plus the line is longer.
Decided to give these guys another try. This time I would go to the supposed original location on the SW corner of 53rd street. As I passed by their counterparts on the SE corner (where I had the chicken bone incident), one of the two guys working says, "same food shorter line." The line was not long at all at the other location at around 11:30pm. There were five guys working at this cart, this should tell you something. After a 6-7 minute wait I ordered the combo lamb and rice and took it home. Cracked open a bottle of Sam Adams and dug in. I was pleasantly surprised that this was much better than my previous experience. The chicken and lamb went quite well with each other. Drizzled on the white sauce while being cautious with the hot sauce. Finished it completely and no chicken bones :) If you gotta go try it, head to the SW corner of 53rd street, you'll see the line and know what I mean.
The Halal Guys operate food carts and it is a business model unlike anything I've ever seen. Instead of having multiple food carts spread across the city or one cart operated by a couple individuals, The Halal Guys have multiple food carts in one concentrated area. As we were walking around Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan, I noticed four different The Halal Guys food carts. And the craziest thing about it to me was that each one of the carts had a long line of people! Because my wife had done her research and knew the inside scoop, we quickly joined one of the lines when we saw it was one of The Halal Guys carts. As part of our plan to experience a large variety of restaurants over the course of the weekend, we committed to ordering one thing from The Halal Guys and sharing it. It was a chance to sample something without spending much money or getting too full. The long line moved rather quickly and I became more excited as I could smell the food being prepared. Once we made it to the cart, my wife placed our order while I played the role of "idiot food tourist who takes pictures of all the food he sees." We ordered a wrap that was stuffed with lamb, chicken, lettuce, tomato, white sauce, and red sauce. We took our wrap and joined the masses of people who find spots to sit on the sidewalk and eat their street food. It's so unhygienic and an essential part of the experience. The meat in the wrap was delicious. The lamb was incredibly tender and juicy and the chicken had great seasoning. I wish I knew the spices they used to marinate the meat because it had excellent flavor and was something you'd never expect was prepared on a small flat top grill on the side of the street. The pita was also very good and reminded me of fluffy pieces of garlic naan from my favorite Indian restaurants. The red sauce offered entirely too much heat, and we probably should have left that off. However, the white sauce reminded me of a tzatziki topping that was creamy and helped alleviate some of the heat. The wrap a huge step up from any Great Wraps or Gyro Wraps people are used to seeing in shopping mall food courts. And for around $6.00, it was a great way to sample one of New York's most popular street carts.
Rating is 4.5! The food is very filling and it is so worth it. They give you so much, but i suggest don't use the spicy sauce, that thing is deadly. There is always a line to buy it because thats how good it is. At 1st i was dissapointed because it was just a typical stand but the food is awesome, and theres a lot of seats nearby.
I had a heck of a time figuring out which cart near 53rd and 6th was THE Halal cart. ?Jesus. ?They all look the same. ?Anyway, luckily a Starbucks was nearby where I was able to steal Wifi to look them up. ?The cart I was looking for was on the southeast corner of 53rd and 6th. ?They wear these bright yellow shirts that say "Halal Guys." ? The portions are large! ?I got the $6 mixed plate, which came with pita bread, rice, chicken and gyro meat. ?The gyro meat was a bit salty, but I think that's generally the idea. ?I should have gotten more white sauce on the side or something bc I had eaten all of it before I was halfway through my dish. ?Had lots of leftovers - I recommend sharing one so you have enough stomach space for other NYC delicacies. ?While I thought it was good, since I hadn't tried any other of the Halal carts, I have nothing to compare them to. ?Good but nothing I'd trek out of my way for. Nowhere to sit, but if you cross over the street to the east, you'll see outdoor benches w/ dividers. ?The guys were fast and friendly.
"White Sauce? Hot Sauce?" *said really fast with an accent* This place rocks. Great food and great price. The best part sometimes is waiting on line at 2am and mingling with people while you wait to get you hands on this savory street food. My fav is getting the chicken with rice and pita, no salad, little hot sauce and extra extra white sauce. The only downside is that this food only taste good when eaten right away (within 15 minutes of ordering). However, if you can't and are in the mood to experiment go to McDonald's and get some fries. When you get home poor the fries all over top the platter and then put it in the oven for like 10 min or so. It will taste soooooo good as the fries and sauces absorb each others flavors. Some of the fries will be extra crispy and taste great with a little bit of chicken and pitta from the platter. I'm so hungry right now. Try it!
I got the lamb/chicken combo. Three key points: -CHEAP: $6 for a combo plate! The plate can feed a family. -SPICY: the hot sauce is freakin hot. Be weary. -TIMING: waited about 15 min at 3:30pm on a friday. Not bad for an empty stomach.
Chicken and Rice, we meet again! The first time I went to New York, I had my first chicken and rice, not at this location, but I was already in love. Then I tried to look for chicken and rice places in LA, but I couldn't find any. Recently, I visited New York again, I had to try this place. ? It was a raining cold night, and I had to wait in a long line to get my chicken and rice... that did not stop me though! When I finally got my chicken and rice it was a tease because I couldn't eat it right away. After I found a place to sit, I opened up the lid and poured the white and red sauce all over that chicken and rice. I took a first bight of it and i was sooooooo GOOD!!! I asked for extra hot sauce though... which might not be the smartest idea. Their red sauce is really spicy! The rice was flavored well, I could taste saffron and other herbs. They gave me a lot of chicken too, which was good. The gyro was so light and fluffy. It was definitely a lot of food for $6! It was worth the wait. They have 2 carts on the corners of 53rd and 6th. I got one to go to bring it back home with me!
Do I love 53rd & 6th's chicken & rice? No. Will I come back? Yes. This place is a safe option for street meat, which is why I don't complain when someone says they want to try the famous 53rd & 6th spot. The chicken is pretty bland until you put either their heavy white sauce on, or their extremely spicy red sauce. Not a bad option if you find yourself in midtown and very hungry.
Wow. I honestly cannot believe I'm doing this... but... I am. I'm knocking you down, 53rd & 6th Halal Cart (aka "The Halal Guys"). Hell has officially frozen over. So why am I doing this...? After having several different meats on a spit in Queens within the past few months, I can no longer give The Halal Guys my undying love or affection. I just can't. Recently I had a platter at 53rd and it was so difficult to swallow. The meat that once brought me joy after drunken excursions at 4 am has been reduced to just a blob of overly-salty, bland meatloaf. Now I crave meat. REAL meat. Chunks. Slices. Dripping with fat. Dripping with flavor. Real meat that I can recognize on a spit. Get the picture? Yes, it's a lot for your buck. Yes, it's cheap. Yes, it's satisfying when you're three sheets to the wind.... but my taste for meat on a spit will never be the same. The bar has been raised and I have been changed for good. I hope the rest of you experience my revelation if you haven't yet. Sorry Guys.
Love the place!!! Awesome food for cheap! The reason I didn't give it a 5 star is because occasionally you get diarrhea from their food. It doesn't happen often, but it did happen to me once before from the multiple visits. I still love it though. It's street food, don't expect too much.
Very very YUM! ?Great bargain at $5-6 per plate, especially since this place opens so late. ? Recommendations: 1) Go for the chicken over the lamb. 2) Definitely get all of the fixings - both the hot and white sauce. 3) Eat it while it is hot, even if you have to sit in the freezing cold to wolf it down. ?(If you go up 53rd towards Broadway, there is a little tunnel area that will keep you from the wind.) 4) Be ready for a line: even the Korean tourists know about this place. 5) If you take my advice re #3 above, watch out for aggressive pigeons!
I have a love/hate relationship with this cart. Why? Because the food here is soooo inconsistent. I've had the chicken and rice several times and it's shit more than not. When it's good, it's REALLY f***kin GOOD but this happens very rarely. I love that the price always stays the same at $6 but lately, they've been skimping out on the load. It's hardly ever full. Not enough of everything and too much of the wilted greens. I would rather have them charge an extra $1 or $2 and fill 'er up. Despite all I said, I WILL continue to eat from this cart and I WILL continue to bring my out of state friends for late night food. When visiting NY, it's a must to try this cart.
A while back when I first tried 53rd and 6th Halal Cart, it was tasty, but my last visit to this cart was a waste. The first few bites were barely mediocre. After eating half of my meal, I realized that 53rd and 6th was completely OVERRATED. $7 for dry crumbly meat, greasy rice and disgusting white sauce. Yeah no thanks. The white sauce isn't even white sauce, it's just mayonnaise. White sauce should have yogurt, some form of herbs or spices to enhance the flavor, neither was present. The meat is horrendous. Whether it's chicken or lamb each piece of meat, if that's what you want to call it, is completely flavorless, dry, and about the size of two grains of rice. Don't fall for this tourist attraction, there are much better halal stands in the city and Queens.
What everyone else said. ?It's a super-efficient operation. ?It's inexpensive (for NYC). ?It's GOOD. ?The sauces are good. ?Be forewarned, the red sauce is un-enjoyably spicy. ?The guys working there are nice and helpful. ?No tomatoes...
My favorite is up in Queens by St. John's -- Less greasy, friendlier dudes, and I prefer the white sauce BUT they're not open after 6 PM and well... That sucks. So on to the next one! Nothing satisfy's a hungry tummy after a long night of drinking more than the Halal carts at 53rd and 6th! ?I don't get what people are saying one being better than the other because. they. are. all. the. same. You're an idiot if you're standing halfway down 53rd. Boo, lines! Half lamb/chicken, lots of white sauce, a LITTLE dot of red, with pita on top. ?$6!!!!! And that thing is practically filled to the brim. ?My friends and I used to drive down all the way from Queens JUST for this. Halal is such an NYC staple, I even bring my touristy friends here when they're in town. Thinking about it now makes me want to hop in my car... Bye :)
BEST.CART.EVER. I've tried the other ones across the street and honestly, this one is THE best. You get a lot of food for $6.00. Great for late night grub. MUST have the white sauce and the red sauce...beware, that shit is FYAAAAAHHH!
Chicken and rice. ?A little bit of red, and a lot of white = Orgasm in mouth. ?I guess I have to start planning yearly trips to New York just to have this and other things not here in Los Angeles.
I finally got to try the halal food from here after months of looking forward to it due to the great reviews, and I have to say it's quite overrated. I got the chicken and the gyro and although both were pretty good, they don't live up to the hype. I've had much better halal food in Astoria, and even cheaper!
Chicken and rice, chicken and rice, what to get but chicken and rice. Everyone tells me to go to the Halal cart to get chicken and rice. So after landing, the first stop was to get some chicken and rice. I enjoyed the food and thought it was good but I think it would have been more enjoyable if I was drunk because it seems like the type of food you want when you are buzzed or drunk
It's been a few days and I can't stop thinking about this place.
ive been here a couple of times. after waiting in line for an hour the 1st time, i had sense enough to go during off hours the next few times. this is probably the best street meat ive had in nyc.. but king of falafel in astoria is close behind. on second thought. i think i like king of falafel a bit better; but i digress. i love the 53rd and 6th hot sauce. but be careful if you want to taste anything for the rest of the day (or your life). it is very spicy! they also have some of the best rice ive tasted from these carts the only reason i cant go any higher than three stars is because after eating there one night, our whole party had a mild stomach virus the next day.. no bueno.
Street meat, plain and simple and not worth the wait.
What is there not to say about 53rd & 6th?!?!?! After having my first combo plate several years ago, I always make it a point to eat at this fine establishment everytime I'm in NY. Don't know what to order? Order the combo plate. Move the pita to one side, douse it with white sauce, don't be stingy, cover every inch of the plate. If you like it spicy, build a small mountain of hot sauce on the salad, because seriously, who eats the salad from 53rd & 6th! Don't waste your time with the BBQ sauce. BBQ sauce belongs only on pork ribs, not Halal plates! Make sure you bring a beverage with you if eating on site. You'll be dehydrated.
Holla, Holler, HOLLA, Can I get a HALAAAAAL?!?!? We had a long night of partying and we were wandering through the streets of New York. Load and behold, off the corner of 53rd and 6th street a light shined on this beloved Halal Cart. There was a line at 2am in the morning 15 people deep. 15 minutes rolled by and I was finally at the front. I ordered the chicken and lamb with yellow rice and pita. I sat in the corner and poured the ranch and hot sauce all over my dish. The chicken and lamb were perfectly seasoned and melted in my mouth. ?The hot sauce gave it a very nice kick especially for those who love spicy food. The rice tasted so good that I could not get enough of it. For $6, the plate can feed 2 unless you are heifer like myself. The cart only takes cash and the service is very quick. I would have to say this was the best meal I had in NYC!
What can I say that hasn't already been said?! More importantly, why are you still reading reviews and not stuffing your face????!!!! GO, NOW! Stand on the line (like everyone else), order your food and be thankful that there are still places in this wonderful country where 7 bucks can get you a complete meal...GOD BLESS AMERICA...lol. Seriously, believe the hype! Its just that good.
$6 Combo with white and BBQ sauce = holy crap the yummiest and most affordable midtown lunch and dinner (took me two meals to finish) I've ever had. PS. ?I went online to check calorie content and it's a shocker. If you're watching your weight BEWARE.
I still don't understand what the hype is. Living in New York all my life, I felt that I needed to give this halal cart a try. So I went at around 1 o clock to the cart on the South East corner of 53rd and 6th, which is owned by same people who run their stand on the South west corner at night. The line isn't as long and I think because it was at noon, it was overlooked. The smell was indeed delicious; i could smell it from a block away. When i get my $6 ?order of chicken and rice, I picked up my round-tin platter and took in the familiar set up of the chicken, rice, pita, and lettuce that I always saw in facebook. ?I used mostly white sauce because the red sauce, despite my high tolerance for spicy food, was quite hot.The yellow rice was good, and moist especially mixed with the sauce. But the lettuce, pita, and chicken I felt was something I could just make at home and throw together. Nothing extremely special. If anything that was out of the ordinary, it was the white sauce which made everything taste much better of course. Maybe it's because I didn't douse my whole meal in white sauce that I found the taste of the meal lacking, but I do think this chicken and rice is too hyped.
all my New York fam insisted in us Californian's having Chicken and Rice OMG THE BEST!!!
I'll spare the repeated comments for you all. Some quick things to know: During the day, they are not at the usual spot - check out either the east side corner of 53rd and 6th, or 52nd and 6th. ?The guys at the usual spot own the permit during the day, and scoop up some unaware custies! Anyway, cheap good quality halal. ?Great munchies food whether drunk, baked, or whatever you do on your own time. Be conservative with the hot sauce, or else it will light your ass on fire, literally! ?I tend to use a bit more than needed. Don't give the homeless beggars money before you look at their clothes and facial hair - if they got a better line up than you, don't give the bastard money! It is possible to get sick off of this food, but I think it's more of a function of the fact that you are consuming a large grease concoction versus the food being cooked to order. Enjoy and smile!
This place i hands down probably on my top 5 favorite places to eat IN THE WORLD. I discovered it a few years ago when we went to NY to tour colleges. It was pouring rainn our last night and we had all our luggages with us, we had no idea where to eat before heading to the airport hotel, and we found this little gem with a really long line, but decided if people were willing to wait in the rain, the food must be at least decent. decent is a huge understatement. For just $6 you get a huge plate of rice, meet, bread and a small salad. what really tops its off though is their special sauce. This makes me miss new york so much and if you're ever in the area, YOU NEED TO GO.
Honestly one of the best places to eat in New York. ?Huge portions, yummy fresh food. ?There are these halal carts everywhere, and most of them are decent, but this one is the best. ?My kids (aged 4 and 7) love it too. ?For a quick bite to eat or lunch, this is a good stop while walking around beautiful NYC!
they are on both corners... ?if you see a long line on one... go across the street to the other. ?its the same damn thing ppl!
I have tried many different Halal carts, mostly in Queens but when i heard about this one being the most famous i had to try it out. I got the chicken over rice. It wasn't bad but it certainly wasn't as good as the hype leads you to believe. I like that they give more food than most other carts for the same price. But the chicken wasn't that good. It had little or no seasoning. It had a taste i have never had at a halal cart but it wasn't a better taste. I love the bread though, for what ever reason the bread on top of the white sauce and chicken tasted great. Other than that i would say the taste is average. I think the reason it's so famous is because it is in Manhattan. Compared to some of the prices in Manhattan this is a steal for the amount of food you get. But for those looking for the best or close to the best Halal Cart i would recommend Rana's Halal Cart in front of the Queens Public library on Merrick. Best i have ever tried. It also has a taste i have not found in any other halal cart. He also usually gives a lot of food.
Ordered the chicken & rice today -- ?delicious! Juicy chicken, creamy yogurt sauce, fiery hot sauce, and a large enough serving for 2-3 people.
I went to the daytime location on 52nd and 6th. ?Same guys as the 53rd & 6th guys. ?How can you tell? ?Look for the yellow shirts that say THE HALAL GUYS, with a picture of a GYRO LOG on a spit in the middle and with YELLOW bags. ?The imposter carts also have yellow shirts, but there's an APPLE in the middle and they use WHITE bags. ?I'm sure the other guys don't have a bad product, but if you want the original, now you know where to go! Needless to say, the food is amazing. ?Possibly the best thing I've eaten in New York regardless of price or quality. ?But there's no denying that $6 for a heaping plate of chicken, lamb, oddly super orangey rice and crisp lettuce for texture is an unbeatable value. ?The lamb is more flavorful than the chicken which is super bland and dry by itself. ?But combined with the white sauce, they create a orchestral symphony of flavors out of this world. Seriously, it's amazing. ?Get extra white sauce and get ready for a visit to flavor town.
My life changed after discovering Yelp. ?I found a trusted friend that I dished out great advice in the all the best places and that I always agreed with. ?Well almost always..... ?Yelp you have never lead me astray until this place. ?First let me start off by saying our last trip to NYC my wife fell in love with Halal street food(particularly Prestige Halal vendor) ?I think we ate it at least once a day. ?After a little research I boasted to her that I'd found what was regarded as the best halal food in all of NYC. ?She challenged the assertion and recommended we go back to where we ate without Yelps help. ?But that would be a slap to my new dear friend, Yelp. ?Regret soon followed. We walked up and surprisingly there was no real line (yes we were at the right place; ?double checked it.). Food was rather average at best. ?My wife an I both order the combo. ?The chicken was shredded, which I am not particularly opposed to, but it was rather dry. ?Lamb was ground and mediocre at best. ?Rice was dry and oddly (and ?artificially) bright orange. ?The sauces were the only thing that earned a star. ?The red was a great hot (coming from a man that is used to The cooking of a Thai wife that cooks SPICY). ?It had us sniffling. ?The white sauce was also flavorful but had a distinct mayonnaise taste. ?If not for the red sauce this was utterly the most tasteless food I ever had in NYC. I'd ?imagine the hot dog water at the end of the day from a hot dog stand would have been better. ?We trudged through the meal with regrets, thankful only that we paid so little for our cardboard flavored dinner. ?After dinner and the following day I found that despite the meal lacking a punch upon consumption it transformed in to Mike Tyson in my stomach. ?My usually iron stomach was softer then Evander Hollifield's ear when Halal guys got done with it. To summarize: avoid this place. ?I'm going to give Yelp a free pass on this one, a lot like how a buddy tells you about a beautiful girl he picked up and slept with moments after you left the club. ?Yelp you were drinking or making $h!t up when you said this place was good.
I've been meaning to write a review on this. It's so overrated, good quick halal platter if there is no line but if you are going to wait in an hour line for this...please save your time and go to another halal cart which will be just as good, if not better. Overly hyped, tastes best when you have been walking about NYC all day and it's close to 2 am and you are starving. Please don't drive all the way from NJ, CT, and Philly just for this... lol
BEST STREET MEAT IN TOWN I used to work a block from here, and there was an ongoing debate in the office as to which steet meat spot was better. So... one week I ate at the top four carts in the area, one each day for four days. ?Some used vegitables to add a little flare to their halal, and boosted flavor with caramalized onions, peppers, carrots, etc. Still, this place wins with the tasty street meat around. ?I heard a story about someone once getting stabbed for cutting in line here... Google it, its legit. Lamb over rice, extra white sauce, pita on the side, life is good
YUM this chicken and rice is awesome. ?But...I think most of the Halal trucks are great. ?Not sure if this particular one is any better than the rest. ?Be EASY on the hot sauce, I love spicy but I went too heavy on the hot sauce the 1st time. ?Quite a bargain at $6 with a $2 mango lassi.
Ugh, best street food ever! ?This place had a line at 8pm on a Monday. ?Every walk of life was standing in line. ?There are 2 fountains with little ledges around them and both of these fountains were packed with everyone eating their Halal Guys. I had the chicken and rice bowl. ?It was amazing! ?Put a little bit of the creamy sauce (stop it dirty birds), bbq sauce, and just a touch of the hot sauce (be careful because it is really hot) and that is perfection. ?You can't get enough. ?I wish one would head to Portland, OR.
I love chicken and rice. It is particularly good between the hours of 3AM-6AM. Definitely worth the wait, lives up to all the hype and don't forget to ask for extra white sauce!!
This place is amazing. Its my favorite Halal spot. ?Its cheap and filling. I love the fact that theres sauce on the side so you can add to your liking. ?This place is amazing for late nights.
Split a plate of chicken and rice with my friend for $6, and we were both full and satisfied afterward. Omg it's so good. Yeah it's just chicken over rice, but it's so good. The white sauce and the fluffy pita bread (? I think it was pita) made it even better. Such a good deal!! Wish they had this cart where I live!
It's 11pm. You're hungry. Really hungry. But you don't want to venture too far from the hotel you're staying at on Central Park South. And you don't feel like getting dressed up. In fact, just putting on a coat over your pajamas is about all the energy you can muster in regards to preserving your appearance and dignity. What is your option? The 53rd & 6th Halal Cart, of course! Yes, in bitter cold temperatures that were dipping down into the low 30's/high 20's, my travel companion and I walked the few blocks down 6th Avenue to quell our case of the munchies at the infamous halal cart that monopolizes the corner of 6th & 53rd. Indeed, the thought of a plate of meaty, carby goodness animated us to action, in spite of the unfavorable outside elements. Without a doubt, this particular halal cart is popular. When we arrived shortly after 11pm, there was a line. And the line throughout our brief stay there only became longer and longer as the minutes passed. Thankfully, the operation is run seamlessly, and tin foil plates were being filled up with spoonfuls of meats and rice faster than I could count. In a matter of a few minutes, we both had steaming plates placed in our eager hands. For only $6, mammoth-sized portions of food are served that will surely send even the most morbidly obsese subjects back to their hotels or domiciles with satisfied grins. I chose the Mixed Plate. The Mixed Plate consists of gyro, chicken, yellow rice, lettuce, tomatoes, and, of course, your choice of delicious sauces. Being the adventurous foodie I am, I poured both the red and white sauces all over my plate. HOT. Really hot. In fact, the spice intensity met my heat threshold, a feat that is rarely accomplished. As for the dish itself, it was wondrous. The meat was tender and flavorful. The rice was stupendous. All of the ingredients just worked well together. It met every expectation. Did I probably gain a pound after devouring the ENTIRE thing. Probably so. Was it worth it? Well..... It's really a double-edged sword to eat this staggeringly good food. I'll just say that the following day I was kicking myself for failing to pack a bottle of Imodium. Notwithstanding, in spite of the day-after comeuppance I received for dabbling with the dark side on 53rd & 6th, I'd do it again. Imodium in hand, of course.
This cart has been sent from the Food Gods to give us mortals a succulent taste of what heaven folk eat. You can't go wrong with this vendor. Excellent drunk food. I personally have the chicken and rice with a sprinkle of their hotsauce, and lathered more with their bbq and white sauce. Note : for you spice fanatics, their hot sauce IS VERY HOT. I personally can handle my spice very well. My brown blood has given me adequate resistance to extreme spice levels. I order my food the spiciest at Indian or Thai resteraunts. But, this particular hot sauce was probably made from the fiery depths of hell itself. If you cannot handle spice, do not consume. You will be releasing baby dragons the next day. Be prepared for a very long line, even the tourists know what time it is!
While it is true in this great country that all men are created equal, it is untrue that all men's halal carts are created equal. ?I should know for I had one very good halal cart meal from a man down near Chelsea Market, one carrot-filled odd mess of a meal from another man on some random Manhattan street, and several meals from the Thomas Keller of halal carts here at 53rd and 6th. ? With yelp reviews approaching almost 3/k for this particular cart there's possibly not a lot more to add but I'll give it a spin. ?The lamb and rice plate here is the thing to order. ?Topped with white sauce and some saucy red squirts, it's $7 worth of perfection in a foil tin. ?Across the street there's some outdoor tables and chairs so you can plop down and fill up or you can try to do as my teenage son did: ?simultaneously walk and eat, but it's quite a balancing act not recommended for people over 25. ? As a matter of fact, this food probably shouldn't be recommended for anyone over 25. ?If you mistakenly decide to order it and walk all the way back to your apartment or hotel before getting down to it you'll quickly find out why. ?Even with a quick oven reheat, the whole thing congeals into something about as appalling as a Jack in the Box taco 25 minutes past the time it was handed to you. So, order and eat immediately or don't order at all. ?That's the way to do it. ?I'm glad this place is all the way across the country; delicious as it is, I'm afraid it's something best consumed on infrequent, special occasions.
This Halal Cart is the most famous cart I know. People I know from California, all the way on the other side of the states rave about this cart just like I do. This is a MUST-TRY if you're in NYC, because there's nothing I've tried that's quite like this. The funny thing about the cart business in NYC is that there's tons of them on nearly every street corner, but this is the only one with a gigantic line. My friends who told me to try this told me to look for the yellow bag. I came here one night and the line wasn't too long yet. Maybe a 15 minute wait on a cold winter night. I got the chicken and lamb plate and man, they give you a lot! I saw other people putting these white and red sauces on top so we followed the crowd and did the same. My boyfriend and I loaded up on the white and the red as well, since we're pretty good at handling spicy stuff. Once we took out first bite, we realized loading up on the red was a big mistake. That stuff is lethal! Take it easy on the red... but other than that, this chicken and lamb with rice was amazing! You can't really explain to somebody how amazing it is, they just have to try it for themselves to understand how good it is. The great thing about this food cart is that it's fast (besides the waiting in line), filling (can feed two people easily), cheap (I think we paid $6), and somewhat healthy. The funny thing is that there's two carts nearby that are the exact same as this cart, but people line up at this one. I asked the Halal guys if they're the same, and he told me yes, but nobody goes to the other ones. Therefore, the other two carts just cook the meat to support the main cart. The reviews don't lie, this cart is amazing. So amazing that we came back twice in one trip. If we stayed in NYC for longer, I'm sure it would have become a nightly ritual.
Great food stop if you're hungry at midnight! ?It's amazing how people would line up for 30 minutes or so to wait for these guys to open at 6.30pm... and there's even a short line when we got our food at midnight! For $6, portions are large... the guys might not be the friendlist, but hey as long as the food is good ?and service is pretty quick! Get tons of the delicious white sauce but watch out for the red very spicy chili sauce. Drizzle lots of white sauce and a dash of spicy sauce, and I'm all set!! The beverage stall next to it however is pretty expensive. I think they are opearated by the same people.... $2 for a bottled water... so do yourself a favor and get your drinks elsewhere unless u want to pay $2 for a regular size water... There are a couple other very similiar looking guys in yellow shirt at almost every corner of the area, but I believe these guys might be the only one with a beverage stall closest to it.
Rain or shine, I have to have my chicken and rice fix every time I visit NYC. ?I swear it's laced with crack, there's no way food can be THIS good. ?I always have the combo with the lamb, chicken and rice. ?Nothing beats the white sauce and because I'm a little psychotic I put tons of red sauce in it as well. ?All the other locations taste exactly the same, save yourself the wait in the line. ?Halal guys can you please open up in Chicago as well?
OVERRATED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i think it's all mental, you hear that this place is the shit from erryone else so when you try it, you're conditioned to agree, or else no one is your friend anymore the white secret sauce.. kinda suspicious if ya ask me! ok, ok... i mean, it's not bad, but it's not as good as everyone else makes it sound.. taste better if you're DRUNK AS FACKKKK one time i had the white sauce all over my mouth, and i didn't know... not cool
Hard to believe how tasty the food can be from a grill in a cart sitting on a sidewalk a few blocks from Broadway, yet the chicken and gyro over rice, with the white sauce, is worth raving over, especially for $6.
Awesome! Still dreaming of the gyro sandwich...
Good cheap eats... ? Lines are long but do move fast. ? ?Red sauce is nice a hot, white sauce is very tasty. ? ?Meat is "street meet" but above average and their rice is very good
This place is a must stop for anyone trying to have great food at a great price. $6 takes car of lunch, dinner, or your late night cravings. Not sure how it is late night, but when it is packed during the day, there are two carts across the street from each other. We were told that these two carts are run by the same guys so dont be afraid to go across the street to get in the shorter line. Went here last year and they put the sauce on for you. Came back today and they had a little station where you put the sauce on yourself - they must have gotten tired of people asking for more sauce. One big tip: respect the red sauce. The red sauce is hella spicy and too much sauce will ruin the meal. Lesson learned!
Very yummy and cheap!!! Red sauce and white sauce made the lamb spectacular
Dare I write yet a third review of this legendary halal cart, the first time I've done a triple-play for any business on Yelp? After all, it's been three-and-a-half years since my last report, and maybe it's the dependability that really gets to me about this nocturnal operation. It's never been about the service. It's four hard-working guys and nary a smile gets cracked among them. They're a well-oiled machine with a very fixed menu that hasn't strayed in the five years that keeps bringing Jamie W. and me back. What did change this time is that the competition moved in. Yes, there's a look-alike cart parked just a few yards away, and it was confusing to figure out which one was the authentic one. In fact, we stood in line for ten minutes before I scouted out the situation and realized we were in the wrong line. We corrected ourselves post haste and were immediately handed sharp little shopping bags with "The Halal Guys" emblazoned on them (see photo). We naively asked the young guy handing them out if this is the original cart, and without skipping a beat, he said, "There is no other cart." Wow, the power of denial. Anyway, it was nice to see the price hasn't changed, still six bucks for a rice platter, and we both went for the Chicken and Gyro combo. We got our Diet Cokes from the guy in the adjacent cart on the corner and hustled over to the wooden benches on 52nd Street since we knew they would be empty. The kids would rather eat on the concrete near the carts, but not us. No, we like setting ourselves for a little semi-private picnic even as it started to sprinkle. And the food? It's simply the best street food in Manhattan. Overstatement? No. And don't talk to me like that. In fact, I can't find a food cart in San Francisco that even comes close in terms of pure after-hours satisfaction. The hefty aluminum tin was full to the brim with shards of grilled chicken and lamb with shredded iceberg lettuce over a bed of rice and topped with soft pita slices. Glop on the mysterious "white" sauce with just dabs of the scary-hot sauce, and you have the perfect $6 meal (see photo). I don't know why I always wonder if I will finish it, because I Hoover it like nobody's business. It's just great comfort food plain and simple. I keep hoping someone will recreate it in my 'hood, but nobody has. Those lines would wrap around the block guaranteed. FOOD - 5 stars...eez steel good, eez steel real real good AMBIANCE - 3.5 stars...dining under the stars after all, but grab your bench fast SERVICE - 5 stars...who needs chit-chat?...they're buzzsaws TOTAL - 5 stars...I wouldn't change a thing about the Halal Guys
SW corner cart, now branded as "The Halal Guys". This is listed as some of the best halal in the city - I had to try it. I've never been blow away by halal carts, the ceiling has always seemed to top out in the "very good" range - and it still does. The pita is very decent here, also you want to pour a full portion of their red and white sauces that they give you onto your plate. This is my advice. There are other locations in the city, some very close to this cart, but everyone goes to this one. I came here at midnight and the line was about 40 people long. I waited for only 15 minutes, so it wasn't a big deal. I'd go back to bring a friend to the scene, but wouldn't choose this as a general meal. I would like to go to a different Halal Guys cart, just to compare.
Every time I'm in New York I make sure to stop by AT LEAST ONCE at this halal cart. It doesn't matter if I'm here for a day, a week, or a summer. $6 for a HUGE plate of chicken, lamb, rice and pita, all smothered in the most addicting white sauce. It's comfort food at its finest. And it's freaking delicious.
This place is beginning to live off of the hype ?and I hope that the uality doesn't decline because of that. But I have noticed that they've begun to expend to other blocks, which means poorer quality. Go to the original source. The wait is going to bit of a pain, but if you're willing to stand in line for 15-45 minutes then you will be satisfied. I order the lamb and chicken combo over rice (TIP: Call that combo the "mixed over rice" ) For only $6, you will get a full tray of rice that is very filling--many times tried and many times, not finished. TIP #2: The less white sauce that you put in your tray, the higher your chances of finishing the dish becomes. TIP #3: Go to the adjacent drink cart--they give drinks for $1, a great bargain. The chicken isn't well marinated, so it does pale in comparison to the other items in your plate, but lamb is well salted and seasoned with pepper and other spices. The white sauce is the best compliment for the oily lamb-- a nice mixture of the mayonnaise-based dressing with the lamb and rice give you the perfect bite wanting for more. The rice is sometimes overcooked ( a pitfall of mass producing rice) but if you get the perfect plate, then you will not be disappointed. Overall, there are some aspects that I would do away with but the food is great and worth the line. Thumbs Up! Don't screw up your quality and give into the hype.
Now everybody loves 53rd and 6th's Halal cart... Old news. Its good Halal, but is it worth the Hype and the 15 min wait sometimes?! Simply stated NO, but here's why: In comparison to some of the other great Halal carts in Queens (Sammy's on 74th in Woodside, and King of falafel guys on Broadway in Astoria) 53rd and 6th is just OK. The chicken isn't marinated, so it lies flat on flavor and the lamb is way too salty. What I think differentiates these guys is the very Clean tasting, not overly oily rice and their white sauce. And the fact that you can personally add as much white sauce as you want is also a plus! They are a good Halal cart, so good that I over heard some dude on line saying they make over $100,000 a month! Now that's ridiculous! Not gonna hate, they're good, but honestly Sammy's on 74th and Broadway in Woodside is my #1.
This is definitely one of those things you need to try at least twice in your life--once sober and once not. I've only ever ordered the chicken and rice, because I don't like the taste of lamb, but I've heard good things about the lamb and rice along with the combo (chicken + lamb). I honestly don't think it's really as mind blowing as everyone else claims it to be, but it's definitely a cheap and tasty meal. I especially love the pita that goes on top of all the lettuce/rice/chicken/white sauce. At lunch it's only $5 and they'll throw in a free drink if you work around the area. I guess if you're a tourist, throw on some fancier clothes and they might mistake you for an office worker too. At dinner time and beyond, they up the price to a whopping $6. The guys who run the cart are efficient and surprisingly accommodating. I have very low spicy tolerance, so I always request no red sauce (the first time I had it, I almost died) and extra white sauce (amazing stuff but probably very unhealthy). They are perfectly nice about it (they even tease me for being weak haha) even though there are a ton of people waiting in line. Also, make sure you go to the real Halal guys. There have been a number of fake ones popping up here and there who claim to be the same ones. Nothing compares to the original.
This place has a special place in my heart. In New York, theres only 2 things that i will always eat when i'm here. 1) New York pizza 2) Chicken and rice. Everything else is good, but these two are the signature food of modern new york. The white sauce is like crack. And the hot sauce adds a kick. Be careful of the hot sauce. Don't splurge on it cuz it'd ruin your food.
donno where all the hype is coming from...falafel wasnt fresh-hard as a rock and dry..chicken -gyro combo wasnt as good as expected.. only saving grave was rice and white sauce and Ok spiciness... couldnt even buy cold water from them.. they should be well prepared considering the long lines.. in nutshell ,if are around and hungry give them a try,donot walk 15 blocks to try this highly average, overrated meal :((
Best chicken and rice hands down! There is no place like it. The white sauce they serve with the chicken and rice is so good. My fianc? and I went with some friends after getting some drinks and we just beat the crowd. There were at least 30 people in line (this was at 2AM) after we sat down to start devouring our yummy food. This is a must try place when you're in NY. Leaves me the desire to find chicken and rice that is this good in CA (no luck yet).
Halal carts have become extremely popular over the course of these last couple of years and here we are... writing about the most popular cart in NYC! ?The Halal cart on 53rd street and 6th avenue. ?The cart, day in and day out, is always graced with a line the length of half of the block. ?It's really that awesome. ?Believe it! Lamb with Rice and Pita [$6] -- This is one of the four choices on their menu and it's great! ?As you can see, they make sure to fill up that whole container with rice and meat! ?I've never weighed a full container before, however, some people have stated that it can be up to four pounds in weight! ?I'll have to give that a shot the next time I get some! What makes it so much better? It's a lot of things, actually! ?Here they are: The meat and rice are fresh - because of the demand, they are continuously turning over meat and rice throughout the course of their run (11am-4am) which results in great quality food. The WHITE sauce - ?The white sauce is AMAZING. ?On my first try, it tasted a bit like yogurt and mayo but no one really knows! The RED sauce - The red sauce is EXTREMELY spicy. ?Bear in mind, when you ask for red sauce, they put it in the TINIEST containers known to man. ?At first you're going to react to it by saying "I'd like more" but believe it or not, they're in containers that are that small for a reason. For all we know, they include ghost peppers in that mix because it's just THAT spicy. Things to keep in mind on your first visit: They're pretty rough at this cart. ?If you don't know your order, they'll give you attitude because of course, they're trying to keep the line flowing! ?Practice what you're going to say (yes, practice) before you get to the dude so that he knows exactly what you're getting -- and quick! Two ways to get sauce: You can say "To go" which means they'll give you an extremely tiny container of the hot sauce with one semi large container of the white sauce (you'll need at least three of these so be tough and ask for it). ?HOWEVER, if you know exactly how much hot sauce and white sauce you want, you can go to the self serve sauce rack and pour it on yourself. ?(A friend of mine who recently visited said that they stopped this because people were taking too much... but lets hope they put it back, if that's the case!) Either way, if you're new to New York or if you're starting to get into the food scene, definitely take a trip to 53rd and 6th. ?If you want to experience it 'for real', take the trip at 3am! ?Oh... and if you see anyone with the signature bright yellow bag, dont be too tempted to tackle them for a bite of deliciousness!
ordered falafel over rice. Falafel is absolutely not to my taste. The rice is good, but not very tasty. But anyway, it was just $5.
Cheap, good, just go.
I don't really get the extraordinary rating. ?I think you have to be drunk to enjoy the food.
WHY DON'T WE HAVE THIS IN SF?!! :(! I would be the happiest person in the world if we had a cart out here. I ordered the Halal chicken and rice and it was perfect! It is a big size but you should definitely order your own and drown it in white sauce ;) I finished my left overs the next day and it was still amazing.
damn good! HALLLLLLLLALALALALLALLLALALALLLLLLL! only place to go to for your first nyc street meat experience. CHEAP. ?cash only. 24/7. the red sauce is suicide. and dont you dare put any BBQ sauce!!!!
Every time I've been here I spend the next day on the toilet. I have yet to regret the decision.
The Halal Guys, yeah it was them. Them that I had my first ever dish of chicken over rice back in 2009. I always called it chicken and rice back then, I don't know how come no one ever corrected me until the end of last year, but now that it's 2012, I call it chicken over rice. I hate bone on my chicken, so this was a dream come true to discover this. A friend had asked me while we were on our way well into getting drunk, if I had ever tried and seemed so shocked that I didn't. So off we went, onto an adventure into the city where I could try something new. Took about 15-20 minutes to find parking and then we had to wait on this super long line. We got our food and I had put white and hot sauce on my dish. This was when I didn't know that hot sauce from these guys was really hot, or maybe it's just so hot because we were all tipsy. I loved every spoonful of this delight. Let me not forget to mention the bums and other homeless bothering you for money while you are waiting on that long line, they will even fight each other if they see another bum is asking someone they were asking, New York needs to control this problem, it's a disgrace. Since then I've explored and tried many different places that are less crowded and less "known", to my surprise pretty much every other halal place is better than this one. They cut their chicken way to small to the point that you aren't chewing anymore but mostly just swallowing. Without any sauce the rice and chicken are very bland, dry and somewhat undercooked, they need to season and really cook their meat. This location is just one of those places that builds it's reputation by other people hyping it up and only coming here because it's "popular". In reality this place is one of the worst I've ever gotten chicken over rice.
Combo with white sauce, hot sauce and pita. the best just simply the best halal food in NY. It's worth the wait honestly. And I'm not the most eager person to have cart food but this is pretty much the only place I'll eat from. amazing!! BTW i think they switched to other side of the street because I went yesterday (12/11/12) and we got confused at first but just look for the yellow sweatshirts that say the halal guys.
Hmm... after trying several different halal carts for the past few weeks, tonight, we decided to go back to 53rd & 6th & this time we didn't enjoy our meal as much as we used to. The chicken is somewhat dry & bland. It's not bad but it's not as great as we used to think. We've definitely had better halal food elsewhere. As for the hot sauce, this spot still the spiciest of them all!!
Why 5 stars? ?I will not ever visit New York for the rest of my life without getting some 53rd and 6th. ? --- ? --- ? --- A couple of years ago when I visited NYC, I heard about this treasure from a friend, but I was an ignorant solider back then. ?I did not have Yelp in my arsenal to help me fight this cruel battle of life. ?So I went to a food truck somewhere in the vicinity of 53rd/6th and assumed it was the halal cart I had heard so much about. It wasn't even halal. ?It was a gyro. ?And it was good, but I didn't know the difference as an ignorant young punk. But I did a lot of soul searching over the next few months after leaving the Big App. ?I discovered this Yelp thing and didnt want to do it at just 50%. ?This was going to be an all-out-war on the fight to eat right. ? I returned to New York years later ready and determined to find the exact target I was searching for this time. ?And I succeeded. This was an entirely different animal from whatever cart I had eaten from in the past. ?This was serious. ?These guys had matching shirts. ?They were on every corner of 53rd and 6th. ?How did I miss this before?? The line was long, but quick. ?The payment process went like this: Me: "Yes, I'll have the beef and rice." ?*Hands $5 bill to 53/6 Guy." 53/6 Guy: *Takes $5 bill and crumbles into his pocket. ?Nothing is said. ***End of Transaction*** Nowhere are prices displayed and at no point are they announced. ?I think they charge for this meal what they think they can get. ?If I handed him $10, my meal would have cost $10. ?That's a good way to do business. ?But, it's a good thing I knew that was coming because I already read about it already on Yelp. Is it time to talk about the meal itself yet? It was very unique. ?It didn't taste like the typical Middle Eastern/Greek food I've had in the past. ?Probably because it wasn't drowning in onions. ?It was very good. And then I poured some white sauce on. And then my very good meal became a F-AN-T-A-S-T-I-C meal. I have no idea what was in that white sauce, but somehow I just kept adding more and more and more and more and then I added more. ? The bottom line with 53rd and 6th is that I ate at about 10 restaurants while I was in the city on this particular trip, and it was easily my favorite.
I really hate places like these, because you will never find anything like it anywhere else. After trying a couple of "halal carts", none of which were really worthy enough for a review, we decided to come back to yelp for some help. Halal guys cart wasn't too far away from where we were at the time so we decided to give it a shot. When we got there around 7:30 the line was quite long, and it moves a little slow considering how many carts they have set up. There are two carts where all the food is served, a cart where all the gyro meat is prepared, a cart with the drinks, and then more carts scattered everywhere on this corner. You are literally in their territory. They practically own that corner and the adjacent corner. The food is nothing short of spectacular. Seriously, it is quite amazing. The famed white sauce lived up to expectations, and it went really well with the hot sauce on the "chicken over rice". My fiancee and I got a chicken over rice platter with a gyro sandwich for $10 and had quite a bit of trouble trying to finish it. In terms of value you cannot beat this place. Their gyro isn't the traditional thick slices of meat. Rather, they seem to chop it up into smaller pieces which almost seems like it might take away from experience. However, this was quite possibly one of the best gyros I've ever had. It was almost a half a pound of meat wrapped in a pita. Nothing short of spectacular. If you want to try cart food, you must stop by this place.
the other couple thousand reviews have already said everything. chicken with rice. white sauce. long line. open late. real late. cash. dont make them angry. hot sauce is hottt
Wow, really good street food! Planned to come here while visiting the Met. Was not busy when I got there, about 5:30. Really nice people working the cart, sort of fast. Food was nice and warm on a cold January afternoon. I really enjoyed the large portion of lamb, chicken, and rice. White sauce was a nice touch. Cost like 6-7 dollars. Coming back here again!!!
Okay don't go to just any random halal cart selling chicken and rice...I initially made that mistake and let me tell you, 53rd and 6th Halal Cart tastes waaayyy Different and waaayyy better! I just wished that I had known how spicy their HOT sauce was...I was in literal tears while I ate my half chicken half lamb and rice plate. ?Its super fast service and they conveniently put everything in a to go bag with fork, napkins, white sauce and hot sauce. s3-media1.ak.yelpcdn.com?
Who doesn't love white sauce?....ewwww It was good. I honestly think I like the food cart at 50th and 6th a bit more. I like the halal guys though, but I felt that the rice was not really cooked all the way. Could just be me.
The best halal cart in New York. And if you live here, you know there are a hell of a lot of halal carts on every street in the city. Don't let the line intimidate you. It's worth the wait, which isn't even that long because they are very fast and efficient. Get a combo platter. Even if you don't like lamb, or have never tried lamb.... get. the. combo. platter. And drown that plate in white sauce. DROWN IT. (Don't be scared of the white sauce either. Although highly addictive, contrary to popular belief, it is not crack. It's ranch-based heaven in your mouth.)
Never again will I underestimate chicken and rice in New York again. I always wondered what the big deal was about this place since chicken and rice from all Halal food carts taste the same. Until I tried this. Soft chicken (not the usual tough, over-fried junk), soft fresh pita and go all out on the hot sauce (sometimes white sauce) - you have tasted heaven from New York's street foods. Absolutely brilliant, good for late nights (you will find long lines all night up until 6 am). If you visit New York, try it!
$6 feeds 2 to 3 people. What a deal! ?I wish the west coast had something like this. The Yelp reviews are right on. 1. ?Order the white sauce. 2. ?Be careful with the red sauce. It will burn your fingers , nevermind your tongue. I will be coming back on every trip to NYC. ?Best late night food ever invented.
This has to be one of the best places to eat in this city, i hope they never go away cause I can always go to them. 6 bucks and I can get any plate on the menu. The food is better than some of the best restaurants in the city. This is not a date spot buy if for any other purpose go here for you food you will not regret it.
The famous halal cart should certainly be a time-honored tradition for late night food (especially after a few drinks too many, lol). ?For $6, my lamb on rice was cut into small pieces to be easily digestible. Portion is generous and damn filling. ?Luckily I didn't have to wait more than 5 minutes...I hear the lunch crowd can wait up to 30 mins to be served...insane!
Holy sausage...I love this halal cart. ? There are hundreds of halal carts in NYC but this one is famous along the east coast. ?I have friends who have no lives and go up to NYC just to go to 53rd and 6th and stand in the line for an hour. ?It's so addictive and I agree with Priyanka...that white sauce is dope. ? I was blown away when I had this the first time and I've been in the area twice ever since but never got to come out this way because line wait cut into my schedule (lame!!!). ?Definitely looking forward to having it again.
$6 for a bitchin' meal? Hells to the yes. So 53rd & 6th, "chicken & rice," has been around for years, and quite possibly the most delicious food cart in ALL of nyc. Yes, big claims, but if you havn't tried it, I suggest you walk out your door RIGHT now... and make your way to the corner where these wonderful middle-eastern men will make you a scrumptious bowl of chicken/lamb/falafal (if you're vegetarian), topped on rice. You can add your own white sauce & hot sauce. WARNING: White sauce is crack in liquid form. I'm seriously serious. Since you took the time and read all the way to the bottom of this OH-so-long review, I'm gonna let you in on a little secret - there is another food cart right across 6th ave, which is by the SAME OWNERS, its for the regulars, and the line is 1/4 as long, same food, same guys, if you don't believe me, look for their yellow shirts, or ask them if you doubt me. Doubt me? Shame on you. You can wait in the long line across the street.
I didn't think I'd like halal food, since I'm not a fan of Middle Eastern food. I guess that only applied to the stuff I got in LA. This shit is goooooooood. Like insanely good. Like, I didn't even have to be drunk for it to be good (my friend prefaced my experience by telling me that it was great after-drinking food, which always gives me pause). For $6.... SO worth it. Even though I was so full from dinner and pre-dinner snacks and a late lunch, I was SO glad I dropped by here before I left New York. Now... I have to find something close to this in LA. Or I will be devastatingly sad. I swear, that white sauce has crack or something in it. Too good.
Lives up to the hype. Tastes so freaking delicious. Especially when buzzed. Even the next day when you're hungover and eating cold leftovers. Ah-mazing. ? And it's only $6. Are you kidding me? Go.
If you're like me and searching for a pace to eat on Yelp, you'll typically sort by the star rating and not delve into the reviews too much as they're tl;dr. I'll keep mine simple: OMGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG.
What the hell is everyone enjoying at this cart? NOTHING HAS ANY FLAVOR. The chicken and rice is dry and they serve it with a mayo sauce. I wouldn't feed this to my dog. Don't waste your time.
Thank you for having inexpensive late eats New York! Wow! Based upon my awesome New York local friend's recommendation, we came here late one evening after a night of drinking to check out the uber famous halal cart of 53rd St. His first advice was, go to the court that has the longest line. Ok...that seemed rather annoying(since I hate lines)but you always gotta go where the crowd of happy eaters are willing to wait for. His second advice was to go after a night a drinking(check ). His last advice was to put a LOT of white sauce on(hmmm...here I was a bit skeptical since I don't particularly like to over-drench my food in sauce so I sorta did about 75%). For those of you that have never never tried it, FOLLOW HIS ADVICE! The food was fantastic! It was both inexpensive and they do not skimp on the portions. As for the line? It went by super fast cause everyone already knew what they wanted and the food was already halfway ready for all the hungry late night food monsters(like myself). As for the atmosphere, you're outside and on the streets of Manhattan surrounded by bars/clubs/restaurants that don't sleep, what more can you ask for?
Went in with unsure expectations and left with a mouthful of tingling spice. My buddy in NY told me about a street cart everyone goes to at night for drunk food. Since we happened to be drinking around the area we stopped our cab a bit short of our next destination and took a quick hop to this joint. At midnight it already had a small crowd gathering for food. The chicken and rice here is beautiful. Have some white sauce mixed with that spicy sauce and you're golden. My mouth is watering just thinking of this place.
I came here five years ago and my tastebuds fell in love! Five years later, I moved to the big apple and had to come here again to see if it would draw me back to those tongue tingling sensations! And yes, it did. Something about the way they cook their chicken and their sauce is different from all other Halal carts in NYC-- but the price is the same!! The chicken is the way to go. Not the lamb (although that isn't too bad either). The only thing that sucks is that it is not opened during the day time. Only 7pm onwards. Also, do not be intimidated by the line because it moves rather quickly. There are imitators nearby, so watch out! They also call themselves "The Hala Guys"
There's always a line, but it doesn't really matter since the line moves pretty quick. Imposters are everywhere, right next to it, street corner, down the street. But if you want the real thing go to the one with the line. It's worth the wait. I usually like drenching mine with artery-clogging white sauce. They give you a good amount of meat to rice ratio with a few pieces of lettuce here and there. Be warned, the hot sauce is hot. Don't want to sound like a broken record, but a little dribble here and there is good enough. I forgot how hot it was and laid on a streak of the hot sauce and my lips were burning.
These guys are awesome! ?Of course, the food is unbelievable. ?If you like Halal, you'll LOVE these guys. ?The portions are AWESOME. ?One platter will be enough for two, if not three meals! ?So take it easy! Watch out for the Hot Sauce! ?They only give you a tiny container for a reason. The staff at these carts are pretty great though, another main reason why I'm giving these guys five stars. ?Someone tried to cut in front of us, saying that he had called in earlier with an order and that he wanted to pick it up now. ?The guy at the cart easily called him out and said that they didn't get any calls. ?The person who was insisting that he called then changed his story and said that he talked to another one of their staff members at another cart who then directed him to this particular cart to pick up his order. ?Yeah, at that point he was just told to leave. ? These guys know what they're doing and they're proud of it! ?Find your way over! Ooooh, ?hit up the BBQ SAUCE when you're there. ?Lots of BBQ, WHITE and VERY LITTLE hot sauce! It'll be perfect!
One of the best meals we had while in New York. ?I don't know if it was because we spent the last five hours walking around the city and was just hungry, but we scarfed it down and deemed it as a must have when back in NYC.
I lived a couple blocks away from this food cart for 6 months and visited it many a time both after the bars close down and the next morning to combat the hangover. The white sauce is amazing, kind of like what I imagine doing crack or heroin to be like. While I haven't done either of those things, I have partaken in this savory white nectar, dousing it all over my combo platter. 1 spicy sauce packet will do, 2 is for the daring. This food does not always come back out with the same ease in which it enters you. If you know what I mean. I mean sometimes it gave me the shits. I usually get extra pita, for a dollar. Go big or go home I say.
Dtrjscahidirin3759!&.:17! There are no words....it's too much delicious.
What more can I say that has not been said already by everybody else.... I have been going to this Chicken and Rice place for over 6 years now and seen the prices go from $5 a platter to $6 and thank god it has not increased from there... The place is still as good as when it started. ?While I must admit it seems the food might have gotten a bit oily in the past couple of years, the taste is very much still there and the white sauce is always the best. For first timers - Make sure you get a mix platter with extra white sauce and a little bit of hot sauce (when I say little, I mean very little..you will thank me later).
$6 for a huge portion of meat and rice, can't really go wrong! I got a combo (gyro + chicken with rice) for my first experience here and it was delicious. The line wasn't too slow, since the food is pre-prepared (they're just too popular!). Heads up about the fake 53rd & 6th cart across the street - this one is hidden under construction but has the legitimate yellow bags! So it's the real one! Also, I was tricked into putting BBQ sauce but you should definitely NOT do this. White sauce only. Chili paste is killer so... only if you dare.
i really do love the chicken over rice. What gets me going back time and time again are the sauces. the chili paste is really hot but oh so addicting. the white sauce counters it a bit and is a perfect combination. cash only, not super friendly, and i am not sure if the other halal guy stands nearby are all the same, but i usually get mine at this corner even tho there's usually a longer line than the other stands. go for the food and nothing else matters. Portion = 2 meals for this asian girl!
This placed USED to be AMAZING like 10 years ago but over the years, the quality has really gone down. The meat doesn't taste that good anymore. The rice isn't tasty or fluffy- more so on the hard side. The only thing thats OK is the white sauce. Boo, why does the quality suddenly go down after you get an increase in business? :(
We were looking for a place to eat in Times Square but it was a Yelpers nightmare, ?all chain restaurants as far as the eye could see. ?Then I found this place only about 10 minutes from times square. ?Amazing food. I would have gone if it wae $15 for their food but it was only $6!! ?We spent more than that on soda and chips at the Deli down the road. W ordered the mix and it was more than enough food for 2 people, plus gives you the best of both worlds. ?Their hot sauce they give you is awesome, but beware it's very spicy. Perfect for us but probably not so much for everyone else. Just go up and order the mix and you'll feel like a local and have one of your best and cheapest meals in the city.
Meh. I went once in 2008 (or 2009?) and I thought it was great. Worth the hype, even. Then I went twice in the past year and it was just okay. I don't know if my tastes changed or what. I have heard that the original guys behind 53rd and 6th sold it and it's under different management now, but I have no idea how valid that is since a quick google search brings up nothing. In any case I don't think it's worth the long line anymore.
Place is famous! Everyone told me to go (really glad I did...pretty sure I came here twice in one week) Really fast, super good service, and generous portions. I liked their lamb more than the chicken, but you can get all lamb, all chicken, or combo.
After reading the reviews comparing The King in Astoria to these guys, this was obviously my next place to try in Midtown. I ordered the chicken platter in order to get a good comparison. The chicken was good. I'm pretty sure the chicken was thigh meat. Very tender, nice flavor, but alone, it didn't excite my tastebuds. The guy tried to warn me that the hot sauce was hot. I didn't listen and told him to add some more, because I always think people underestimate how much I like spicy food. He was right though. It was hot, so don't get a lot or you won't be able to taste the food. The amount I got was pushing it. Two squirts is enough. While soft and tender, the rice is an odd orange color. I haven't figured out why. They also throw in some lettuce and a ripped up pita. I prefer the King's addition of falafel. The pita just got soggy on the way back to my office with all of the steam and sauce. Overall this place offers a good filling meal for a measly $6 and I'd choose it over any other cart in midtown. The King of Falafel and Shawarma in Astoria gets my vote for best in the city though.
def love this joint!!!!!!!!! honestly it doesnt taste super special or nice and amazing but its def something you ll crave for!!!!! i dunno what it is, cant explain it!!!!! it probably has craccccckkk in it!!! watch outttt!!
I expected this to be overrated, but the white sauce seriously is that good and it's nice that they give you plenty to go. don't skimp on that, get as much as you can. I don't usually use the red sauce. Go to the one on 52nd and 6th and laugh at the 50 people waiting at 53rd and 6th when you're in and out in 2 minutes. There's also one at 53rd and broadway that had literally no line last time I walked by. However, if you're from out of town and down for a bit of a wait it's worth walking down to the 6th avenue location just for the experience.
"The halal guys, we are different" is their slogan and yes they are different. ?The normal halal cart cooks their chicken and gyro meat on the grill while this one comes in with huge tubs of pre cooked and greasy meat. ?It is so greasy that it gets all over everything. Far from being a place you should wait 20 minutes behind 200 other lemmings for, this is I would say below average halal. ?There are many choices for halal in this area ! ? Even if their halal was superior to others, you would not know because they have to sit there cranking out 1000 platters an hour on all 4 corners here out of tubs. ?Most of the reviews here are from people from other states that probably never had anything else. ?Do yourself a favor, and walk 4 blocks down to 49th and 6th for much fresher and tastier halal.
If you only spend one night in NYC, make sure you make a stop to Chicken and Rice. Even the cab drivers know exactly what you're talking about. Make it spicy with the red sauce and don't forget some extra tzatziki to cool it down. I know it's probably hella bad for you in terms of nutritional value... why else does it tastes so good? God, I wish we had this here on the West Coast and open late at night.
When I was visiting New York, my friend kept ranting and raving about chicken and rice at this location and how I needed to try it and I just kept saying eeeh what's the big deal. ?But holy molly! ?The chicken and rice here is BOMB DIGGITY GOOD!! ?The line is super long but it moves really fast and it is worth the wait.
Everyone has more eloquently illustrated the awesomeness of the food. A couple tips: ? 1) Make certain you have The Halal Guys and not one of the imitators. Look for the name, orange yellow bags, orange yellow shirts, etc. 2) Don't be intimidated by the lines. 30 people took them about 5 minutes to take care of. Sometimes they will string together 2 or 3 carts to serve the line. 3) If the lines are truly egregious, there are several carts. I have seen carts on 53 and 6 (SW), 53 and 6 (SE), and 52 & 6 (SW).
Awesome stuff. ?Just a spitting distance from my mid-town hotel, I walked over there after reading reviews on yelp. ?I was a bit skeptical at first because of so many great reviews... I especially ?hate going to where the masses go, but yelp has been good to me, so I tried it. It's so simple that it's fabulous. The chicken is flavorful and tender and mix in the rice with the white sauce and chili sauce and you have pretty awesome feast. The guys charged me $7 even though others on yelp said it was $6... I don't know.. maybe he charged me an extra dollar, but I just blew it off as tip. ?The dish comes with some greens and a pita... ?I was completely filled up from this. Next time, I'll have to try the Lamb.
Apparently the white sauce is all the hype. It did live up. On this 53rd and 6th block, there were 3 carts with signs and guys saying they were the Halal Guys....okay. Confusing. We decided to go to the one with the longest line. A Halal guy came up to us insisting that they were the originals and the others were copy-cats. Okay okay, take it easy.... The line went quick, got the mixed combo of lamb and chicken. A take out container of lettuce, rice and meats topped off with this magic sauce and bam!! You got yourself a delicious meal. Only $6!!! Sweet! Tasty sauce. Meat was a tad dry but you can't beat the price!
Oh dear jesus that white sauce is dynamite and that red sauce is freaking fire!! ?Mix them together over chicken and rice and you've got an aluminum bowl of halal heaven. ?If you're not familiar with NYC street food, this is a great introduction. ?If you are familiar, this is a great reminder why the NYC food scene rocks!
I have to agree w Moses. If you've never had C&R before, then you'll love this place. But if you've had C&R else-ware (in Queens), then this place is nothing but hype. Beware that there are mice running around these streets.
STUFFED WITH AWESOMENESS! I can't believe I haven't written a review for the Halal Guys. Then again.. who needs a review?!?! This is THE place to check out when you're visiting or living in NYC. The lines can get intimidating, but don't worry, it goes by way faster than you think. TIPS: Be ready to know what to order (chicken over rice, ftw!), have your cash out, grab your drink from the ice boxes (you'll need water if you like the SPICY RED SAUCE!), ask for extra sauce (ADDICTING!), and ENJOY! BTW, thanks to the guy who gave me his last falafel of the night! These guys aren't mean, after all!
I can honestly eat it everyday with that mystery white sauce and hot sauce. Cheap and delicious!
tl;dr so easy, so fast, so good. Smother with sauces! Compared to basically everything else in NYC, the chicken (and anything else) over rice has the best value. ?Am I saying that it doesn't taste super good? Nope. This bowl of amazingness is cheap AND delicious. As it's my first time in NY, I naturally wanted the best of the best (read: delicious but affordable). And with my awesome luck I find out that my hotel is immediately adjacent to the cart. YES! After the first day in NY the family and I came here for dinner. There was a line about 15 people long when we arrived around 8pm. But the line went really fast as the owners have made the assembly line into an art form. ?Bowls of rice and lettuce have been prepared before and add there was to do was add the meat. So easy, so fast, so good. On the side of the cart was a row of white and brown (BBQ) bottles (along with three red ones (SPICY) above). ADD THE WHITE SAUCE LIBERALLY. I don't know what it is, but I do know that it makes your food taste amazing. For me my sauced up rice became much easier to gobble down and I ravenously consumed my food, though it definitely could have lasted 1.5 meals. What's interesting is that about 30m west of the cart was another cart that had its lights off, and the men working there were just furiously chopping up meat to be sold at the first cart.
HALAL GUYS, you guys are so awesome! I'm a big fan of halal food especially when you put a huge amount of their white sauce on top of my lamb over rice. But nobody can top the halal guys because they have bottles for you to decide how much white, hot, or bbq sauce you want on it. There's always a line, so it must be good! Their style is a little different, instead of big chunks of meat they kind of ground it up for you a bit. I guess it's easier on the teeth and jaw, they know how we get lazy sometimes. They add pita bread to your rice, which not a lot of halal stands do. And it's all for just $6 dollars, it's a pretty good portion that they serve. AND to top it all off, adding your own amount of sauces! For me, if it's a full bottle i squeeze it until there's a half bottle of white sauce. [I know, that's a heart attack right there. But I can't resist, it's soooo good!!] Then to top off my meal, i put bbq sauce to make it tangy with deliciousness. Typing this already makes my mouth water! MUST GET!
Holy balls this food was good! Nothing like a 1am walk just to find Halal Guys. I was so happy with my enormous container of rice, chicken, pita and, of course, white sauce. That sauce seriously makes the dish. People weren't kidding about that hot sauce being hot. I think my nose was on fire just smelling it.
Street Meat!!! STREET MEAT!!! Street Meat!! Every time I come to the Moma I always hit up this cart. You will know which one b/c there is tons of carts and this one will have a big ass line. Don't worry the line moves fast. ?Look for the Halal guys in yellow shirts. ? For $6 you get a HUGE container of Lamb & Chicken with rice, some lettuce (for color) and a piece of pita bread. ?The sauce is awesome. The hot sauce is HOT HOT HOT and I like it HOT so that is a warning. Just a small amount makes your mouth burn --so tread lightly. ?If you are street meating it up, this is your spot. ? A great place to shock and ahhhh out of town visitors!
chicken and rice best meal you can buy for $5 in this overpriced city. there's always a ridiculous wait at least you know their meat has great turnover AND they don't touch your money and food with the same hands so it's pretty safe street food to eat.
Another aspect of New York dining: the food truck/cart. I was introduced to Halal Guys by my friend Brian Silverio (who, incidentally, also introduced me to friendster and facebook). The beef and chicken plates are both good, but I think it's the sauce (word for the spice virgin: the chili sauce is super hot! Stick to the yogurt sauce if you don't like your food spicy) that makes the dish. I have since brought other friends to this food stall, which can be a good dinner place after taking in the MOMA on Free Fridays.
Was recommended to try Halal Guys while visiting NY. We tried a regular "halal food" stand by the 911 memorial and the gyro was pretty bomb, but $5 just for that. So last night we were at Times Square and decided to try Halal guys and after a lonnng late night trek with super sore feet we made it to the cart to buy the mixed combo with rice, and eat it when we got back to the hotel (which was in brooklyn). Long story short, by the time we got back to the hotel and ate the food, it was barely warm still.... and it tasted BOMB!!! I can't even imagine what it would have tasted like hot. Idk what was so good about it but I definitely inhaled more of it than I should have. Gotta try them out... and another halal food cart to see the comparison.
Some friends brought me here one night, and I'm soooo glad they did. Good fresh food and cheap! I got the chicken and lamb, and put plenty of white sauce and, of course, some hot sauce. I loved it! The line moved super fast, so I only waited maybe 5 minutes. I've been craving it ever since, but since I live in Denver, I'm outta luck, lol. I will definitely come back to this cart every time I visit NYC!!!!!
Probably the best cheap, street-style chicken and rice you'll get in Manhattan but it's still just street-style chicken and rice so there's no need to go into 'this or that other vendor is better.' Bottom line is, the wait kills this establishment's rating for me. The food is tasty and filling, but I just can't justify standing in line 30 minutes for chicken and rice.
so overrated we ?waited for about 30 minutes for this thing... its alrighttttt. but one question: WHY IS THE RED SAUCE SOOO HOTT???!??!? one squirt ruined my whole plate
What's not to love about this place? Cheap, open at 3am, and plenty of food.
2178 reviews and still as high as 4.5 stars, that says something!!! I was in town for a birthday party, but couldn't resist the urge to stop by the cart before getting dinner with my friends. ?So, I just got the gyro/sandwich - chicken & lamb combination with white sauce. ?And by god jolly, I felt like I was in heaven for the 5 minutes it took me to assault the ginormous bundle of foil wrapped melt in your mouth pita stuffed with tender and juicy shredded chicken and lamb soaked with their white sauce topped off with some crunchy iceberg lettuce.....hhmmmm....hhhmmmm.....hhhmmmm so simple, yet so delicious. for that 5 minutes of heavenly experience, I had forgotten that it was 20F in NYC at the time with wind blowing around 10-15mph. ?Needless to say, my fingers were begging me to retreat into the gloves once the subject of assault had seized to exist. New Yorkians have a rep of F*** U in your face type of attitude. ?But, these guys working the cart in that freezing weather couldn't be any nicer. ?They know that the tiny establishment they got going is a jewel of the city in its own rights, yet they were very humble in their customer service - whatever minimal that may be for a food cart.
I cannot tell you the degree of tragedy I feel at knowing I cannot simply run down the street & grab a round tin of heaven from the Halal Guys, as I did several times during my 3.5-day stay in NYC. You hear about New York pizza, you hear about the celebrity restaurants, you hear about Restaurant Row... But nothing compares, guys. NOTHING. We tried several other food carts, but this was by far the best one. It's easy to find, and it's less expensive than some of the others ($6 for a LOT of food; we split one until our last day, when we splurged on one for each of us), but it is The Best. They give you the most food, plus you get fresh and delicious lettuce and tomatoes, along with a nice amount of wonderful, flavorful pita bread. We tried both the lamb and chicken over rice. Both were excellent, but the lamb is what blew our minds. There was never a line when we were there, though we were probably there at odd times because we were eating something like every two hours during our trip. Note that you'll know it's the right cart if it says "We Are Different" on the side. Now, I know you may be a little nervous ordering food from a food cart if you've never had the opportunity before. Believe me, I understand. I was skeptical, too, and admittedly more than a little worried about unpleasant gastrointestinal ramifications. But folks, this stuff is amazing, and the only unpleasant feelings that accompany partaking are 1) being too full because you couldn't stop eating the wonderful, flavorful, delicious, manna-like food, and 2) knowing you can only get more at 53rd & 6th in NYC (unless you are lucky enough to be a local, in which case you better damn well appreciate the blessing).
Got the combo with diced gyro and chicken, yellow rice, lettuce, and tomatoes with your choice of savory sauces ($6): Spicy sauce was sooooooo spicy. I think it's just pureed chilis. I have a high spice tolerance so I doused my combo with the spicy sauce assuming I could handle the heat....but my mouth was ON FIRE!!! Water did not extinguish the heat in my mouth, I had to run across the street and get a mango yogurt drink, which cooled my mouth down. Yikes! If you don't like spice, don't put ANY of the spicy sauce in your bowl. White sauce was great. For $6, this was a good amount of food to fill me up. However, I think this place is overrated. I can see why it's great for drunk people, but when you're sober, you realize It's just chicken and rice with a little bit of shredded iceberg lettuce with some sauce on top. Amsterdam Falafelshop in DC is only $4, serves much better food, and is delicious when drunk OR sober.
This is the best Halal I've tasted in the city. It was also the first Halal food I've had and nothing has yet to match up to it. I've tried other Halal carts in the city and it really was not the same at all. This cart definitely has something special about it. My friends and I are willing to drive from Jersey in the middle of the night just to get this stuff. It's that good. The best part is that it's cheap and will get you full.
Good thing I went around 9:30pm, the line is a lot shorter but it's still a line. It moves quite quickly. My boyfriend and I got the combo which had chicken and lamb over rice. I was amazed at the sauce station where you can put whatever sauce you want on your plate. We got it to go, so they gave us the little containers of white and hot sauce (which we later found the hot sauce all the way on the bottom of bag). We digged in right away and it was pretty good. I mean, I had food from different halal carts before and they all have their own style and fort? of making it. I really liked how the rice taste and also the extra pieces of pita bread. This is the type of food where it'll be great when you're drunk, it's also good munchie late night food.
Does it live up to the hype? Yes. Hell yes. One real advice though: test out the red sauce before going nuts all over your precious chicken/lamb/rice. That liquid lava is pretty potent. I disregarded the advice my first time and ended up having to compensate with drowning it out with their white sauce - which made the dish even better. The line is long and it's late and it's cold. But there's a reason why there are still people standing there, waiting with you.
Very good. The platter is large enough for two easily. The lamb was better than the chicken. My husband ordered a gyro and the guy handed him a platter. He was disappointed because he thought it would be a sandwich. If you want it in sandwich form, don't forget to say sandwich.
I thought they were lying when they told me this was the best food cart in New York. Then I saw that they owned two corners, about 50 people in line, and cars full of Arabs looking for halal meet parked in front scarfing down the delicious chicken and rice. The cab driver knew exactly why I wanted to come to this corner when I mentioned it. You know it is good when both cab drivers, rich bankers, and high students seek it out until 4 AM. It is greasy and delicious.
This is, by far, some of the best street food NYC has to offer. ?It's enormous portions, delicious and priced great. ?I recommend the combo plate. ?It gives you a bit of everything. ?Be gentle with the red sauce, as it packs a punch. ?If you are a veggie, go for the Falafel. ?FANTASTIC! ?Totally lives up to the hype. ?No frills but just pure nyc halal deliciousness. Plus it's open from 7:30 pm - 4:00 am!
I think the whole NYC has reviewed this cart so I'll keep it short and simple. AWESOME AFTER PARTY FOOD! Long lines can be avoided if you decide to hit up the carts on the other side of the block, which people rarely notice. It seems as though everyone is blind at 1am and only notices the cart with the longest line, which is perfectly fine by me. Hot Sauce Hot Sauce Hot Sauce is a must! It'll burn your tongue like fire, but damn it's like crack. On nice warm nights, you can sit by the main cart on 53rd and 6th and hang out with other drunk partygoers. Chances are you'll be too busy munching on your food though so you won't be making any new friends. Anyhow, it's definitely the go to spot for some hangover food, but I still say that there are better halal carts during the day than them.
Every time we come to NY we visit these guys. They are the BOMB and that is not an exaggeration. B sure to get the white sauce & hot sauce - gotta have it or it ain't the same. And don't b fooled by the many impostors - these guys are different!
I don't know why you're still reading this. Go. Now. Get the chicken over rice. Smother it in white sauce. Everything. The chicken, the rice, the bits of pita, the handful of iceberg lettuce. Everything. White sauce. You think that's enough? No. More. Get it all over. Drip on few drops of the hot sauce (be careful, it's not playing around) on top. You're welcome. It might be not just one of the most satisfying meals in NYC, but also the best deal . Totally full (the "I'm never going to have to eat again" type full) for $6? Come on. The line is long but isn't heaven worth the wait? (But seriously, what's in that white sauce?)
If it wasnt for yelp im not sure I would ever eat at a Halal cart. Theres literally one on every street you walk on. This one was definitely crowded and you can tell that they prepare a bunch of meat, plates, bread to make the line grow so people know that they are the popular one. Myself and 2 of my girlfriends SHARED 1 combo plate: half gyro half chicken over rice. comes with lettuce and bread. ($6) We made sure to put the hot sauce and white sauce all over. BAD IDEA....... I got SO SICK from the hot sauce. was it the hot sauce or the food? Im not sure but I was IN SO MUCH PAIN. WATCH OUT FOR THE HOT SAUCE BECAUSE IT IS FREAKIN HOT!! so hot it ruined the rest of my day :( Dont think ill ever go back to a Halal cart. I want to barf everytime i walk by one.
The best street food I've had! Stumbled upon this hidden treasure accidentally with a friend. On our way to catch a bus back to Boston. The give-a-way that this was a great find!? The line of course! I don't think I've witnessed anything like it. We jumped in line. I Yelped it while in line, highly recommended by fellow members. The rest was history. I had the lamb and chicken combo with rice. It was excellent! Both the lamb and chicken were tender, and bursting with flavors of Middle Eastern spices! The rice was soft and delicate. For extra spice, I added the "red hot sauce." The cream sauce was very good as well. I will definitely re-visit!
Just like in the drug game, you have to go the roughest streets to get that pure substance. That non watered down 3rd party vendor trash that usually pops up everywhere. If you want that high quality, authentic, pure cocaine-like quality you have to go straight to the source. Be it in veitnam like Blue Magic or in the columbian moutains. As for Chicken & rice plate in New York. This is the vietnam/the columbia/the roughest jungle terran that denzel washington went through! Yes it is a on a corner cart! And it is PURE! Ya feel me?
Really, the food here is average. Chicken was dry. I've actually had better at other carts. The convenient seats near it is a plus. Other than that, i'd say go elsewhere. Came at 10:30-11pm, wait was less than 5 minutes! (mid week)
Chicken, Lamb and rice combo was excellent! Lucked out and didn't have a super long line when we went. White sauce is tasty. Hot sauce is HOT! Great flavor and good burn. Was wanting more as soon as the heat died down. Was worth the walk from Times Square for sure!
Constant lines, positive reviews, and monopolizing the 6th ave corners aren't a fluke, the Halal Guys have waged Jihad on all other carts and are victorious, dollar for dollar it's great and the best bargain in NY since Jeremy Lin was balling on a mininum NBA salary. ?I'm not about to do research for my muslim breadren as to how Halal the food actually is as long as they keep bringing the heat at 3 am eastern standard time in my hour of need! The cook told us that the other carts on the surrounding blocks are also their business so the line isn't needed at just the one o.g. cart, it's all the same food. The hot sauce is easily the hottest I've ever had, they need to sell it in stores...Meat and rice portions are more than enough, the lettuce isn't brown, and the pita is a great scooping device.. not much more you can ask for...throw in late night hours and this cart is a gem
Always a fan of cheap eats, I had to check this place out after work. ?$6 for a plate of chicken, lamb & rice, I was sold! It was about 3 AM on a Friday night a couple of weeks ago and only a short drive away from my karaoke gig @ PJ Bricks, so I went to check it out. ?The line was long and the weather was decent. There were plenty of people waiting patiently, so I knew I was in the right place. ?The line moved quickly, I waited about 10 minutes. There were a couple of newbies on line just like me. ?I had read earlier Yelp reviews so I knew I was planning on ordering the combo plate. I ordered, piled on the white sauce like I was instructed to and lived to regret it! ?I think I had too much white sauce, because I couldn't taste any seasoning on the rice or meat. ?One order is more than enough for one person, it can be split with 2 people, especially with gobs of white sauce. ?I could only eat half! Next time, I'll go easier on the white sauce so I can taste more of the food. ?Either way, it was pretty good and since I work in the area, I'll be back!
Combination plate. The wait is always worth it. You never regret the waste of time. The servers are always direct, no asking about your daughters or your life. They couldn't care less if you drop dead (unless you're holding a ten dollar bill for the gyro plate). I understand this totally. The rice is hardy and fulfilling. Never a grinch about the big serving sizes. Drench that in WHITE SAWSE baby!!! (only appropriate to say out loud in the vicinity of this food stall) Add a little hot sauce for a kick. You'll be happy for three hours after. Guaranteed.
So we have been intrigued by these halal cart guys every time we have visited MoMA for the past two years now and gave them a try last month. My take on them: Portions: Huge. Good enough to be be shared by two people with my appetite. Service: A breeze. The lines move fast and the wait time is very little. Flavor: Bland for us Indians. We are used to more spices and heat as compared to the Halal Guys. If you are all about the spices, herbs and heat like us then avoid. ?Its a good to go dinner/lunch if you are in the area and hard pressed on time.
It's funny how many Halal Carts there are in the city but only this one is the real Halal! The line will be long, unless you go in the middle of the day. And even then, there's somewhat of a wait. And there's good reason why this is so. Because it's freakin' delicious! Lamb with gyro and lettuce on top of rice with greek yogurt that's mixed with mayo drizzled on top. So food coma inducing. They also have little tiny cups of hot sauce that you can ask for but they will only give a couple. Why? Because it will burn your mouth off. Seriously. Everyone who likes spicy food always thinks they can handle it and often complain about how they don't give you enough hot sauce. Until they've burned their mouths off. So beware - use only a little of the hot sauce and you'll enjoy your halal just fine.
chicken n rice will always taste the same from any cart, but seriously these guys put some other shit in their food and their chicken n rice taste like crack. this is probably the most unhealthiest dish you could eat, but if you're ever up for a late night snack, got the munchies, you're drunk, or if you want to gain five pounds, come to this halal cart cause its sooo good! white sauce and a few drips of that hot sauce, does the trick :) they upped their price to $7 i think... i remember it was like... $5 back in the day... :( (aka like 2 years ago) anyways, once they got popular, they upped their price and what's more confusing, some other halal guys started claiming they were the famous halal cart so, u know what, i really can't help you there, but seriously one of those carts, whichever has the longer line i suppose provides the best plate of chicken'/lamb & rice :)
I've eaten at The Halal Guys 5+ times over the past few years and have tried chicken or lamb over rice all over the city. THG has a more unique take on the dish that I do find to be tasty, but not superior to many of the others, and certainly not "the best". ? The rice is orange and a bit buttery/oily but overall it works fine. ?It isn't anything special by any means, however, outside of the oddly appetizing color. ?The white sauce is mayo based, and does not really complement the meat and rice in taste, but does take the edge off the insanely hot red sauce and also makes the whole thing easier to eat. ?As much as you might think you can tackle the heat, do not get too much of the red sauce (seriously!). ?Is this why so many love the white sauce, in its ability to fight off the red? ? If you're drunk, you might enjoy the intense hot/cool battle in your mouth between sauces, as only drunk courage will make you go after anything more than a few drops of the red sauce. ?Pure heat, with little flavor. ?Also, you will definitely pay for any drunk courage the next day. The meat is prepared using its own fat for sure, as that umami flavor certainly comes through (in a very good way). ?Their meat preparation is perhaps most unique aspect of their '[meat] over rice" vs. others. ?The meat is not as seasoned as in other joints, but however they do it, the strong meat flavor is what I like best about THG. I'd give the place 2.5 stars if I could but decided to round down this time as I do feel this place is way over hyped here on Yelp. I very much prefer Sammy's Halal (Queens) over this for '[meat] over rice' but outside of the 2 key ingredients and the use of a street cart, they are almost totally different dishes. ?You might as well compare it with arroz con pollo too. ? [Another minor gripe that did not impact my rating: Why does a "halal" place call it a "gyro"?] The actual meat and rice are fine on their own, but way too dry to consume by themselves, so you need the sauces. That's where it goes downhill for me. Mayonnaise based white sauce is for children or numb taste buds. To me this is like ketchup on a hot dog. The hot sauce is also one dimensional. I can definitely see how THG's product appeals to the crowd it gets at the times it is most popular (no offense to anyone, I've been a member). ?Its place on the tourist circuit is a bit more puzzling. ?I don't think it is in the top 5 of this type of joint in NYC, but I do crave it sometimes. Going to another random cart will not necessarily get you something equal or better, but for me, 1 out 3 times it will. The stronger flavors and seasonings at other joints I consider to be better may be what turns off many tourists. I don't feel that THG's meat and rice themselves are flavor-less, as some detractors do. I like that they aim for distinction and that they have (obviously) nailed down a formula for success. ?The end product has some strong points but overall appeals to a more narrow palate. It most certainly is a great deal at $6.
Honestly one of my favorite things to eat in NYC. I try to take everyone who comes to visit here.
OH MY GOODNESS THIS CART WAS SO DELICIOUS. YES I AM YELLING. IT IS SO TASTY. It was a very, very cold January afternoon at around 25 degrees. That's like, twice as cold for people from Texas so standing in this line took every ounce of my will to eat. And boy am I glad I waited it out. It was pretty confusing to figure out which cart was the actual right one since there are a couple on this street, but just look for the logo you see in the yelp pictures and the one with the longest line and it's your place. I tried both the chicken and lamb and they actually taste very different. I preferred the chicken but the lamb was good too. Pick up some extra white and red sauce, but be warned that the red sauce is REALLY INTENSE. Even as an Indian girl who loves to scorch her mouth, I could only handle a little bit more than they already put on it. We did end up sneaking into the Hilton across the street to eat it in their lobby secretly because it was just so damn cold. But when we got inside, there were quite a few other people doing exactly what we were so I don't feel guilty about my Hilton lobby exploitation.
Dont go sober, You'll understand why I gave it 3 stars. Next time i'll do some shots of liquid coccaine before queing up with the inebriated masses for the 5 star experience. It's the kind of food that tastes AMAZING when you're drunk.
The best street food I've eaten in a while. I ordered the gyro platter and put the "white sauce" on it. For $6 you have a meal that will fill you up. Definitely give this cart a try.
The best, cheapest street food you can find in NYC. I've been coming here for year and have to really be disappointed. Get the mix (chicken, lamb & rice), extra sauce and an extra pita and you will be able to feed two. A man's man will devour the entire thing by his lonesome.
The food is good and cheap but it not worth waiting 30 minutes or more.
OMG!!! I'm not from NY but if I was I would most definitely eat this everyday!!!! The hot sauce is amazing! One of the reasons why I would come back again! For $6 my boyfriend ordered the chicken platter and the portion was very generous. They top it off with some white sauce which to me tastes like homemade Tzatziki sauce. It also came with a whole plate of rice, salad, and pita bread. You can always ask for extra white (Tzatziki?) sauce or hot sauce. I ordered the falafel sandwich for $4. They stuffed it with about 4-5 falafel balls, lettuce, and white sauce (Tzatziki?)/hot sauce. Falafel balls were pretty steamy and the pita bread nicely toasted. You can also buy just the falafel balls. For $2 you get 5 pieces of falafels. ? ****WARNING**** the hot sauce is no joke when it comes to spiciness. ?When the street vendors say don't put too much or ask if you're sure you want to put that much, they really mean it. If you can't handle heat or if you're not accustomed to eating spicy food on a daily basis I would suggest asking for a little or leave it how they topped it on your plate. You can always opt to get it on the side and dip it in the container. ?For spicy sauce lovers, a whole lot of their sauce can make your nose drip. Anyways, can someone please tell me what the white sauce is called?!?! I wanna say its Tzatziki sauce but I may be wrong. Oh well either way I still love the damn sauce! I plan on coming back to NYC sometime and when I do this will be my number one go to first spot. ? Oh! Friendly tip: Make sure you have some dollar bills last time we went they couldn't break or change a twenty. But I guess when we went it wasn't too busy for them to carry smaller bills.
5 stars for quantity but 4 for flavor. I really enjoy coming here when I'm in the area for the sheer value of this food but I find just a bit something lacking in the flavor of the chicken and rice although the white sauce kinda makes up for it. The 2 times I've gone (to the SE corner cart) I've ordered the combo (chicken and lamb) that comes with rice, salad and pita bread for a packed aluminum container. Even if you are not a fan of white sauce (I'm really not but this one is different) get some on the side and I beg you to beware of the hot sauce, it is INFERNAL!!! It is a great taste of NY street meat at an amazing price.
So good and so cheap! We went twice during our 3 day trip, which says something given our tightly packed itinerary. It helped that this location was on the way back to the hotel from Broadway, so we stopped by for a quick snack after watching our shows. We opted for the chicken and lamb combo, which comes with rice, salad, and a few small pieces of pita. Make sure to be generous with the white sauce -- it's amazing! We also added some of the super spicy red sauce. One plate is enough for 2 to share, but I'm sure we could have easily polished off a plate on our own as well. There are two carts around the corner from each other. We tried both (they both say "Halal Guys") and confirmed they offer the same delicious food, so don't fall for the hype of the super long line on one of the carts. P.S. The falafel was disappointing. Cold, hard, and dry. Stick with the chicken and/or the lamb!
Street Meat Four Star Jamboree 1. Tasty Lamb / I do not do chicken but hear it is good 2. Pretty quick lines relative to wait / length ratio 3. Self serve White Sauce (tasty) ?/ Hot Sauce (bloody hot, I mean HOT, H-o-T) 4. They have expanded and quality while still good seems to have slipped a touch. I used to work very close by to this location. I would grab a bite from these guys 2x per month. They rarely disappointed. Good solid street meat fare. A few points they can improve upon: 1. If they had a milder hot sauce option it would be much appreciated. That sauce hot, and I can handle hot. 2. Less grease on the rice 3. Little bit better quality salad Though for the price it is hard to complain. Check it out if you are in Midtown West.
Spent the weekend in NY and had some awesome food, but the one place I regret not going back to a second time was this Halal cart. So good and it's basically two meals worth of food for $6. ?Best deal in Manhattan hands down. White sauce...yum!
wow...so much yummy food for $6. my only complaint is the pple that work there take frequent breaks when they have so much food and the line is already so long lol
It's good food but it's def not worth the LONG line and the 45 MINUTE wait if you don't get there before/after the rush! There are plenty of other Halal carts in the city that are just as good that have no line at all. Overview: If not a long line, go for it. If there is, find another one of the million Halal carts in the city!
This is staple of NYC drunk food. It opens at 7pm and goes late. Always a line but gives you tons of meat and rice. I always go chicken but lamb is tasty (although a bit more greasy not like anyone cares) Extra white and extra hot sauce - you can sauce yourself on the side and they have to-go sauces
Good food for real cheap. It was great went back for more.
1 month later and I'm still pissed that my fiance ate my chicken over rice dish without telling me. Okay maybe not really anymore. We have a tendency to bicker over food and halal cart was no exception. My bright idea was to buy halal and take it back to Seattle. I wanted to savor it the second time around. We bought our own plates and took it with us on the plane. No problems taking the white sauce with us through security! The chicken over rice and gyro over rice is hard to choose between. Getting the mixed over rice is your best bet! If you go to NY, this is a staple food item and a must eat when in NY!
One is enough for a couple. I am over 6'2"/190lb and was starving so I fought off the gf's idea of sharing and despite it being delicious threw too much away. Unlimited white sauce is prob their not so secret key, omg red sauce soooo hot but tasty.
Simple, cheap, AMAZINGGGGG! The white sauce is crack it somehow transform this simple chicken and rice into magical deliciousness. Service is quick and the hot sauce is potent. I only tried the chicken but it was bomb!
The best $6 meal in the city. ?At a time when a quarter ponder with cheese burger meal cost $8 (NYC prices) this is such a welcomed find. ?Lots of good, well seasoned food smothered in a mayo, cucumber, garlic white sauce. ?What more could you ask for? ? Be careful with the hot sauce. ?Wooa it's hot. ?If you feel like having a smaller meal, try the Gyro which is also great deal for $4. ?That's less than the cost of a round trip train ride and you don't even get grouped or pick pocketed.
For "street meat", this cart is pretty amazing..........BUT.......is it worth waiting on the longest line in Times Square? ?Well maybe if you're trying it for the very first time. ?The cart across the street and the other cart across the other steer, and lastly, the other cart across the street on the next corner aren't all that bad either. ?But none of them have the hype that this one does. ?Does it live up to the hype? ?Decide for yourself.........ask for extra white sauce because 1 just aint enough!
another place where my expectations were set too high. yes it was good. Yes it was alot for the money. yes the red sauce is freakin spicy. Yes the white sauce makes this dish. For $6 this dish is worth a meal, but not worth all the hype. The rice was good, chicken was tasty, pita nice and fluffy, and the sauce really makes the plate creamy and delicious. Im glad that i went midweek during a slight drizzle, therefore there was no line. Had i waited in a really long line for this i would have been incredibly disappointed.
First off the food here (chicken and rice) is absolutely amazing. ?However, my friend and I recently picked this food up and got unbelievably sick. ?I won't go into detail but I wasn't better a week later. ?I love the food at this place but will never go back again.
Best chicken gyro I have ever had period!!! ? It's cheap too.. Have to get the sauces
Best street food I've had in NY. Only 6 dollars for the huge combo platter. Recently, their quality has become a bit more hit and mess, and they've also become pretty stingy with the white sauce. Still a great value, but be sure to come during peak hours for the best experience.
Eight years later and Halal Guys is still as morphenominal as I remember it. There are a ton of knock offs but none of hit that perfect balance of chicken, rice, pita, and white sauce as well as Halal Guys do.
I think people overhype this place a bit too much. The chicken is tasteless, I'll give it to them on the rice though. Till this day I don't know why people wait on the west corner when its the same across the street. I guess food in NYC just tastes better when there's a long line and you have to wait hours to build up that appetite.
Soo good, yet so bad. Lines getting longer as night goes on. Super busy over weekends and Friday night, for obvious reasons...this is the perfect place to satisfy your drunkies and munchies. The line goes by super quick, so don't fret. If its your first time, go with half chicken and half gyro (both are very tasty and you can taste the two options). Portions are large, only 6 bucks. ? Drench it in the white tahini type sauce and go easy on the spicy sauce if you can't handle it. I have also tried it with BBQ sauce and its also very tasty, its both tangy and sweet. I don't know how I finished the whole rice bowl...tums will help if you have a delicate stomach.
Gosh I love Haikus: Pouring rain. No Line. Chicken and Rice. Red and White. Belly full. Happy.
So good. No line around 9pm on Wednesday. Spicy sauce is so hot, but I'll get it next time as well. Be prepared to order. Chicken rice, lamb rice, falafel rice.
What more can you ask for....chicken+rice at 3AM? YES PLEASE. The white sauce is necessary, but be careful with the hot sauce. I like my chicken spicy, but your butthole won't thank you in the morning.
At some level, halal food is halal food, but there's something about this cart that makes me like it over the many other halal carts in the city. Maybe it's the mystique surrounding the cart. Maybe having to wait in a long line for my food makes it taste better? Or maybe it's just that when I come here, it's often with a googly-eyed halal newbie and it's fun being part of their first experience of this type of cuisine. Whatever it is, I'm a fan. I love my combo plate slathered in white sauce but I avoid the red sauce. I tried it the first time and I swear I couldn't taste anything on part of my tongue for days.
Trying to figure out which of the four near-identical halal carts on this intersection was THE famous 53rd & 6th halal cart caused us a great deal of anguish. We finally decided that this one near the statue/fountain must be the one as it had the longest queue and didn't open until 7.30 pm. I still don't really know if the other carts are affiliated with this one or are just shameless imitators. We ordered the mix chicken and gyro plate and loved it. I agree with all positive comments above and below.
Sweet Jesus! ?This place is out of control. ?I would consider moving to NYC just to be closer to this cart. ?I have no idea how food that is seemingly so simple can taste so good! ?I went here two times on my three day trip and I regret not going more. ?My mouth is watering as I write this review, so I am going to keep it short. ?Go here often if you are lucky enough to live/work/be close.
Finally popped my chicken and rice cherry. After hearing so much about it my expectations were pretty high. What's true- long line moves fast, cheap, need white sauce, hot sauce is hot as hell. I probably wasn't as drunk as you need to be at a place like this so it was just ok.
Alright, I've said this before about burgers: "When it comes to burgers, there are only good burgers and bad burgers." The same mantra applies to halal food in NYC. There's good halal food and bad halal food. 53rd and 6th will serve you some GOOOOOOOOD halal food. I've had halal food in the past where the chicken didn't even taste or feel like chicken. Their chicken is well seasoned and tender. Their lamb is also flavorful. And please, when you get the platter, definitely load up white sauce on it. That white sauce is so good that people have described it as being addicting like crack. Personally, I like to order the combo platter (you're being selfish to those behind you if you don't get the rice platter --- seriously, you just waited in line and you're gonna get a gyro? Man, please) and on the rice platter I slather on that white sauce, a little bit a hot sauce (this stuff can cause other body parts to burn if used excessively and this hot sauce leagues ahead of your watery supermarket chili sauce), and some barbecue. Then, I run to the store and get a tall can of ice tea for $1. Then, I cancel plans for the rest of the day and tomorrow in order to eat the platter and savor it. Their rice platters go for $6 and you have a choice of lamb, chicken, or a combination of both. Don't even ask me what is the price of their falafel or gyro because I hardly see people get that stuff. For $6 you can't go wrong. You can't even go to a legit burger place or restaurant without spending $10. Also, there are several carts that serve the 53rd and 6th Halal. The "authentic" one opens at 7PM and operates near the water fountain and across the Hilton hotel. Personally, I've tried the other carts which operate during the daytime and their quality is good as the "authentic" one. I'd say you should wait and try the authentic one before moving onto the other ones.
I have eaten here at 1 in the morning in 20-degree weather. I have stood in line for 45 minutes at 6 p.m. just to get a platter of their sweet nectar of the gods. I would've waited longer. I have to sojourn here every time I'm in the city because it is INCREDIBLE. I would happily skip breakfast and lunch in order to make room in my stomach for more of what these guys have to sell me. GO. JUST GO. You, too, will be a convert.
Some of the most amazing tastes I have ever experienced. This is just flat out one of the most delicious things I have ever tasted in my life. ?I've seen and heard people talking about the halal cart on 53rd and 6th for forever, but I never knew what it was (being from Los Angeles). ?I finally had the chance to try it this winter with some pretty high expectations and Halal exceeded them by leaps and bounds. I stuck with just the chicken for my first trial. ?The line wasn't too bad, 5 or 6 people ahead of me in queue, but maybe it had something to do with it being 20 degrees outside. ?That's cold for an Angeleno. ?They have sodas, waters, snapples etc in front of the line while you wait. ?Don't mind if I do. ?Then it came time to order: ?Chicken? lamb? Can't go wrong with chicken. ? Service was quick and easy. ?Some rice, some chicken, some lettuce. ?I noticed a lot of people had some white sauce on theirs. ?What was this? ?Seemed like everyone was getting it so I put some on to see what it tasted like. ?It turns out it tastes like pure heaven. ?I don't know what it is, but it's some type of mayonnaise I'm sure with some spices in it. ?Whatever it is, it made the chicken and rice 100000X better tasting. ?I also added some of the red hot sauce, but beware, it's EXTREMELY hot. ?I LOVE spicy food and this was very, very spicy. ?Have water on hand if you're going to try it. It was so good, I came back 2 days later to have it again. ?New Yorkers are so lucky to have this at their disposal. ?It's like karma for not having In N Out.
there was many hypes about where i was going to be eating at in nyc since it was my first time in the east coast..alot of the places were failures until we went to the halal guys. everyone over hyped about this place and i have to agree that it is that G.O.O.D. the GF and i order a combo plate which had chicken and lamb. we started off with a tad of white sauce and couple of drops from the red sauce which was more then enough. it was blazing hot. the white sauce was so good that i had to get more! i probably added more white sauce about 4 times. who would've thought that a white sauce would taste so good in your mouth that you needed more? just thinking about it has my mouth watering. too bad there isn't a halal guys in SF. for sure this will be a spot to return to when I'm back in the east coast. ?i heart NY bc of the halal guys.
Food's good, don't get me wrong, but something different has happened here. Now, they rush you and don't even pack up your food EVEN WHEN YOU TELL THEM it's to go. They hand you the plate, plate cover, fork, and brush you off to the side, pointing to the hot sauce, white sauce and bags. When you try to grab the packaged white/hot sauce, I swear the guy(s) gave me an ill kung-fu-grip stare. The lack of packaged sauce makes you fumble to the side of the cart, over doing it with the hot sauce (which, I've finally determined is the cause for the bathrooms trips - don't OD on it. I know it tastes good and you'll sweat up a storm but seriously, this is what makes you go boom - literally). And I don't know why, but they've added barbecue sauce to the collection now. Well if you're drunk, as 98% of the people who wait for this food are, you can't tell the difference between the hot sauce and barbecue sauce. When you get home, bet your ass you will. Get it, ass, hot sauce, bathroom, toilet, your ass will thank you... Ok. I miss the days when I would hand the guy $8 and he would give me back $2 saying "you gave me too much." Now, I just want to grab the hot sauce, squirt it in their eyes, and take all the prepackaged hot/white sauce home with me. But that sounds a little dramatic.
This is definitely ?a 5 star street vendor! ?Ditto to everyone that has said the food is cheap, plentiful, tasty, and the red sauce is not to be taken lightly! If there is a line 20 people long, it will be about a 5-10 minute wait and worth it. Only bad thing this night was they were out of falafel, I will go back tomorrow and let them make up for it...
53rd & 6th Halal Cart goes by a number of names like "Chicken and Rice" or "Platters" but is deserving of one descriptor: awesome. There are halal carts all over the city trying to imitate this champion, but none of them can measure up to this one. This one is consistently amazing, and I regularly have cravings for it. Eating "chicken and rice" should be on everyone's bucket list. Chicken and rice is better than the lamb or the combo and is the cart's biggest seller. It is a generous helping of diced chicken, yellow rice, lettuce, tomatoes, and a few big pieces of pita bread. You NEED to douse it with white sauce, and it will be heaven in your mouth. If you can't handle very spicy food, beware of the hot sauce. It is verrry hot; I only asked for a tiny bit once, and my mouth was on fire. It is only $6 for a platter, so it's a cheap solution for a big meal. It is excellent as a meal itself or a late night snack after a night of drinking. If you're super health conscious, this is not for you. Embrace the deliciousness, and throw your cares to the wind. The line may be long, but it is worth it. These guys are pretty efficient in getting food out to you, so quit your whining. Street food at its finest.
You should go here for two reasons: 1) the food cart experience, and 2) the food. I am not from NYC, so this food cart concept is quite foreign to me. This Halal cart was my first real food cart experience, and it was awesome! The food was so good, and you could smell the meat cooking from a block away. The line stretched pretty far, but it was worth every minute. If I'm in the area, I will have to make the extra effort to stop by and get this!
There's a reason why there's always a massive line for the Halal Guys, it's because they're AMAZING. I got the combo, half chicken and half lamb, should've gotten all lamb. I love their white sauce and hot sauce. It's just so good. Even on cold days, I will wait in the line for them. It's a ton of food, so you can definitely share, but oh so good
Mix it up! (chicken and lamb with da rice) OMG! Seriously, I don't care how long the line is. ?The wait is worth it ($6 for a platter), and the line moves fast anyway (the Halal guys are all business, don't expect smiles). Oh yeah, and the hot sauce will tear your mouth (and insides) apart. ?So I guess what I'm saying is to load it up!
The food is amazing and delicious. It is also much more reasonably priced than other food carts in the area. Its a must for anyone going to that area.
"Why is there a line? And why is the line so long?". These are the words that all newcomers to 53rd and 6th say when they try to buy a plate of chicken over rice with white sauce. The secret is, the is line so long which is why you get on in the first place. This halal cart is a touch above the rest, but enough to remember as the goto spot anytime of day or night. The chicken has a quick turn around so it tastes fresh, even with all the seasonings. Add hot sauce, white sauce, bbq sauce and ask for the not so well know peices of pita and you have an excellent meal. Even my mostly vegan gf stole a large chunk of my meal, smiling the entire time.
As the years have gone by, my late 'late' night trips (or should I say early 'early' morning?) here have decreased, but this stuff ALWAYS hits the spot! On most nights, the line is long.....on certain weekend late nights it may even stretch down the block. Parking will always be a hassle since plenty of cab/limo drivers pull up to grab food here. But despite the line, the turnover is FAST. They have everything prepped and ready to go in sufficient quantities and drinks have been separated to a different cart. They have a back up truck even. Talk about the perfect, cheap meal for a drunken 3 a.m. stop! Or a sober any-a.m./p.m. I usually always get their lamb & rice, YUM! The white sauce, pita & salad come with. Be careful with the red sauce....if you can't handle spicy this stuff isn't for you. Even a drop packs a punch! I LOVE IT! It's amazing how famous this particular cart is, and it's been around for a long long time....way before 'food cart' culture really took off in all shapes & forms.
This place never seems to disappoint! I've been here around 5 times and it is absolutely delicious-- first of all it comes in an exceedingly large portion. ?The meat is juicy and tasty, though admittedly slightly scary. The white sauce is what really gets me every time. ?It is hands down the best food cart meal I've ever had.
What can I say that 2,000 other people haven't? ?Freakin' get off your butt and eat here. ? Go drink yourself silly and show up at 1:00 a.m. ?Do not let the hundreds in line discourage you! ?The line is the best part. ?I've met the coolest people in line. ? I'm imagining my radio interview show where all I do is get in Halal Cart line over and over. ?hmmmm....
Gyro with rice, salad, and side of sauce. Big line of customers non-stop all hours of the day and night. Plentiful, cheap ( $6) and delicious. Two people can share one order. Alas, it is full of SALT !! ?Sadly, unhealthy. End of story.
I really liked Chicken and Rice. The lines can get very long. It is enough to feed two people. It is pretty cheap too. Its about $6-$7. The white sauce is seriously crack sauce. It is super good. BE VERY VERY careful with the red sauce. The red sauce is SUPER spicy. Just take little dibs here and there. Don't pour it all over your food. There is no where to sit to eat as in a table and a chair. You will have to sit on the street or any space you can find to eat. It is part of the experience to eat on the street. It comes with peta bread. YUM. Also, get a bottle of water at the other cart because you will be thirsty. It isn't too salty. The only reason why I am giving it 4 stars instead of 5 stars is because all of us had stomach issues the next day. All of us had to go to the bathroom a lot more than usual the next day. Not good. It has to be the chicken and rice. Street food that needs to be cooked well might have done it for us. But I will eat it again when I go back to NY. It is just something you have to try.
Yummy! ?Combo plate (chicken, lamb, rice) makes a great late night snack. ?Plus, you can squirt as much white or hot sauce on your rice as needed. Be prepared for long lines.
Holy mother effer is this good when you're wasted from a night out.
OH MY GAWDDD... I've died and gone to heaven. How can a simple $6 buy you such happiness?? How can some chicken and rice be soooo good?! And all from a street cart?!! Yes it is true... 53rd&6th's Halal Guys must be descendants of Allah! No, I was not drunk; I was sober. No, I was not starving or remotely hungry; I actually had just ate a few hours ago. And yet there I was... stuffing my mouth and wishing I had gone back for seconds. I don't know if its the (cheesy?) rice or the perfectly cooked shredded chicken or the orgasmic white sauce... but it was like heaven on earth! I'm glad I made it a point to stop here on my trip to NY... I will now forever dream of it in my sleep, in my states of hunger, and just 24/7. As noted previously, BEWARE the RED [HOT] SAUCE - just a drop will go a loooooooong way. But do drown yourself in the white sauce (: PROTIP! There are now, as of 07/03/2012... **THREE CARTS** all situated in the area of 53rd&6th, serving up the same Halal Guys Chicken&Rice. When I went, there was one cart with a line of at least 25-35 people deep. The other two carts had maybe 5-10 people... and it was confirmed by the 25-35 ppl cart-workers that the other carts were in fact serving up the exact same food - wooo! So skip the line if you can... or at least try to disperse and save the guys from dying under your anticipation and unwanted drool.
If you're reading reviews on this place, you've already made the discovery of a lifetime in NYC. Don't be intimidated by the long line or the fact it's coming from a food cart. There's a reason people find themselves waiting around the block in line. You're gonna be getting a true meal on the go for very cheap. Bypass that by getting here early enough (i get here around 7) and you'll be pretty close to the front. Once they get going tho, the line just keeps moving. DONT FORGET TO TRY THEIR WHITE OR HOT SAUCE WITH IT
Well there definitely was a line when I arrived at the cart. ?I food patiently in line watching the countless people in front of me walk off with their foil plate filled with goodness. ?As I got closer I saw the white sauce being poured onto the dishes. ?Finally, my turn came, I ordered chicken over rice and waited patiently for dish to be smothered in the white sauce. ?It was divine! ?The dish was covered in white sauce with a dash of white sauce. ?What a work of art! ?It should have been in the MOMA just a few feet away (face it, we all know that the food probably looked way better than some of the stuff in there). ?Anyway, the food was excellent. ?The chicken so tender and moist. ?The rice just perfectly complementing the dish. ?And, the white sauce...what a great meal! ?Go stand in line and experience the most delicious food from a cart you've ever tasted. ?You'll thank me later.
I'M A BIG FAN! The food is so good we even endured a freezing temperature of 20 degrees with snow to eat it. ?(Well, we snuck into the hilton nearby and ate in their lobby instead but still). Nothing much to say about it other than I suspect it has crack in it because it's so good. That special sauce they've got is awesome. ?If you've never had it, you owe it to yourself to at least try it once! ?Be careful with the hot sauce cause it IS hot.
It's street meat. Cheap, fast, greasy food that is utterly delicious and probably not the most sanitary. I had chicken and lamb over rice, and it was great. I ate a little bit of the hot sauce and wanted to cut my tongue off. Still, it was good food. The line was about 4 people deep when we stopped by for a weekday lunch, but it moved fast.
Ok.
Minus the fact that we tried to come here a few times to order, and came at 7 am and the guy refused to serve us because he didn't feel like cooking, which is super lame might I add because we were dying to try this place being all the way from California and he was trying to get me to talk to him in Arabic and apparently "habibi" isn't sufficient enough (longest run on ever), but wow. I am a major skeptic when other people recommend food, in this case everyone I had come in contact with, but this place forsure lives up to the hype. I regret not bringing ziplock bags to bring this stuff back home because I'm pretty sure there's crack in that white sauce and hot sauce. Also, a little hot sauce goes a long way even if you claim that you can handle the spiciest food ever, like I do. Just take it easy and put a ?couple small drops in at a time so you can get maximum enjoyment. Amazingness in a tin to-go bowl. Where have you been all my life? Need to ditch LA and move to NYC for the food, or this cart. I hear the line is a problem and going after nightlife is usually a good idea, but lots of hugs and kisses to my friends who waited in line for us! :)
You cannot visit New York or live here and not eat here. ?It will change your life. ?Okay maybe not really, but damn this is one of the best and yet cheapest meals you can have in this city and at any time of the day as well! I had this during my first trip to New York two years ago and have been craving it ever since. ?When I came back this time, I made sure to eat it twice while I was there for a weekend trip as well as bring back 3 servings for some Halal goodness back in California. ?Is that too much?? ?No! ?It's probably not enough! I think the food itself is probably okay like the chicken could be better and stuff, but man the white sauce makes all of it freaking ?bomb! ?I would compare it to the crazy good orange sauce that you get at La Vics in Norcal, probably even better! ?I love that you can basically eat this food at any time, and it will be good. ?I had it for lunch and for a late ass snack at like 3am after loads of drinking. ?Eating this sober is good, but eating this while having alcohol munchies made it even better! ?Okay my basic point is that this is a New York necessity when you are here, and there is something wrong with you if you don't like it. The Halal Guys (the supposedly authentic ones) only serves chicken so if you want lamb too you'll have to get it from one of the other numerous copycats in the city. ?My friends had one from near their hotel in Times Square, and it had kind of a curry taste to it that made it taste more Indian, which was really good too just different. ?All in all, amazing food for an amazingly cheap price (only $6)!
Yum the best platters around
I always see long lines of people here, even on weekdays, so I thought the food must be great. I finally tried it on a Tuesday at 2AM, and was kind of disappointed with my chicken-lamb combo. The rice, which grain-wise had potential, was very undercooked. The lamb was dry and minced to small pieces, resembling a sad, cheap turkey stuffing. The chicken was pretty good, as were the sauces. Maybe I got there too late? Considering they close at 4AM, I thought it couldn't be too bad. When I looked at pictures on Yelp, some people seem to get much better looking lamb. Agh. Lots of points lost to lack of consistency.
Much like foldable, thin crust NY pizza and kathi rolls at McDougal Street, Halal Guy cart is a NYC tradition. How do you go wrong with pile of steaming hot, well-seasoned, minced lamb (or chicken) on rice and pita bread at 3am?? Just make sure you pick the right cart since there are 200 of those in a 4 block radius. Hint: The one with long line is the correct one. For comfortable seating, bring your own car.
Not the friendliest guys on a cold day, but catch them on a nice evening and they are really friendly. Make sure you tell them exactly what you want, and if it's to-go or not. But the food is as good as it gets for $6. I've never been able to finish it by myself and ?it is always the best value for money I spend in NYC. Always ask for extra sauce!
Definitely a must when visiting NYC! NYC is full of amazing street-cart food and with that, you could imagine how many halal carts there are. However there is nothing that amounts to how amazing the 53rd & 6th chicken and rice halal cart is. Not only was it cheap, roughly $6 for a bowl larger than chipotle's, but it was super delicious. Our first time going was after watching Wicked and around 11PM there was a huge line! Waiting in line however is never a problem because it moves real quick. The menu is small, but everyone (including me) would recommend the lamb&chicken rice combo, if this is your first time. When you go back, you can try the other things on the menu. But lamb&chicken is a must! Cons: Cash only - but then again, which cart isn't? Not much seating around the area
Delicious!! A must every time I go back to New York....Line is always long no matter what time you go but it moves fast and definitely worth the wait. The white sauce is a must (get extra) and the hot sauce is super spicy.
sexcellent! (guys, it's CASH ONLY.) pretty much the best $6 you can spend in NYC. the portion size is a beast. i recommend sharing so you can come back another time the same day. choose the gyros ($4) or lamb & chicken combo ($6). a whole lotta white sauce and easy on the hot sauce.
It's obvious by the number of reviews that I wouldn't be adding anything new, so I'm going to place a poem, right. here. o' 53rd and 6th chicken and rice, the greatest mix I stay loyal, o' Halal Cart, it is true- have all of my heart
This place is the *ish! They are open day and night. There is a Long line late night but it's worth the wait. (conversing with the others on the cue ?about your night is fun). I must say though the way you should order is "the soup mani's soup kitchen style". Specific and right to the point. They definitely don't like the uh and um so know what your ordering before you get to the front. I aleas get the lamb and chicken mix with rice, alittle white sauce and hot sauce. Yum! Super inexpensive and just delicious!
One of my all-time favorite food! For 6 bucks it can feed two not-so-hungry people, but if you're both really hungry, then you need to buy 1 for each! ?They are open late until 4:00am! Food is served hot and fresh, those white sauce are bangin'!, while the darn hot sauce are literally hot and spicy, like 1 tiny drop is super hot. The pita bread is delicious, yellow rice and some veggies. Combination of lamb and chicken is quite fulfilling, almost having -itis syndrome after eating.This is really good especially when you have to eat sit outside in the cold haha, people sitting on side walks and every corner near that cart. I remember the days when almost every night I eat this food! I haven't had this for a while. Someone drive me to that place and buy me lamb & rice!
Look I will be perfectly honest, I DON'T eat from street carts and since I saw the Law and order episode on SVU ?where the carts were stored in some Hell's kitchen garage run over by rats and roaches I was forever scared of stepping close to one. BUT after about 15 years of no hot dog stand, street meat or anything cart related I was overcome with a new perspective inspired by the AMAZING smell of this food coupled with the Midtown Lunch crazy long lines I see all the time or the gossip I hear all over about its goodness but try to ignore. Despite all of this........One day I tried the Chicken and Beef combo from a friend and was completely converted. The food was delicious! (Always ask for extra of the red sauce if you like your food spicy) and Although I am a follower I still want to know where they wash their hands!
You're going to see a million Halal food carts in NYC, especially midtown. There's nothing attention-grabbing about this cart, besides the line sometimes. I guess you have to hear about this one to know how good it is. I think it's insane to see how many people have reviewed this small food cart! I'm pretty impressed with the quality of their food and the amount of people they can serve. You'll receive a very generous portion of food for about $6. I ordered a combo of chicken and lamb with rice so I could try a bit of everything, and everything was so amazing! White sauce makes everything fatty and hot sauce will punch you in the mouth. This is a good thing. Just take my money already and give me more!
OVERRATED!! ?The gyro meat was lots of small dried bits of lamb that wasn't as tasty as other food trucks I've been to. ?This place is famous and always has a line, but I it's nothing special compared to other food trucks in the city. ?Also, I've had diarrhea for 2 days.
A staple for the late nite drinker... ? My friends and I come here right before we go upstate. ?The driver's meal is always on the drunk people.
This was my first experience with Halal carts but I knew that this one must be special due to the line a block long. The food smelled so fantastic! I did a mixed over rice (half gyro and half chicken) and I was not disappointed. I would return again on my next trip to NYC.
THE HALAL GUYS AND THE MYSTERY TO THE SECRET WHITE SAUCE RECIPE! When heading over to the Halal Guys on 53rd and 6th Ave, take heed to beware of imposters! It's easy to pick out which cart is theirs when you have line of people a mile long stretching across the front of the Hilton as it runs West from their famous corner on 53rd and 6th. But what most people don't know is that they have a few other food stands that are open and available within less than one block from their world famous corner. These locations have been confirmed as affiliated because they have the same yellow bags, they serve their food in round tins, and all members of their crew are wearing their famous yellow shirts and huge yellow menu with 3 options. If anyone else tells you that the owner of their cart is a brother of the famous cart, then you should call him a liar and remind him that in some countries such offense is dealt with by cutting out a man's tongue! Confirmed Locations of Affiliated Food Stands: 8pm to 4am on the Southwest Corner of 53rd & 6th Ave. Noon until Late night on the Southeast Corner of 53rd St. & 6th Ave. 11:30am until Late night on the Southwest Corner of 53rd St. & 7th Ave. How good is the food? 2700 Yelpers would not have taken the time to rehash how it was while preserving a solid 4.5 star rating without something being to it. If you're still wondering how good this food is then you should know that you should never even THINK about cutting someone on this line or else they might cut you! I'm not even joking ... someone once got killed when attempting to get ahead on this line to get their Chicken & Rice a little faster (gothamist.com/2009/12/11?). Is this food really worth dying for is not for me to say... all i can say is that you better not try to push your way ahead of me. So what is it that makes the food so good? Some people say that the SAUCE IS THE BOSS! Every Halal Cart has their own "White Sauce" which I would hope would be more than just thinned out mayonnaise. After doing some research, I've uncovered what may be the elusive formula of the white sauce served at the 53rd and 6th Ave Halal Cart. Ingredients: 1/2 cup mayo 1/4 cup water 1/4 tsp. horseradish 3 tsp. white sugar (divided into 1 tsp. each) 1/4 tsp. salt 1/4 tsp. black pepper 1 tsp. lemon juice 2 tbsp. white wine vinegar ~1/2 cup Ranch dressing ~2 tbsp. Greek yogurt ~2 tbsp. sour cream ~2 tsp. dry dill weed Step 1: ?Mix the first 8 ingredients from the list in a small bowl. The sugar should be divided to adjust the sweetness of the sauce in case the yogurt or sour cream make the sauce too sour and require something for balance. Step 2: Add the last 4 ingredients to smooth the texture of the sauce depending on the chunkiness created by the yogurt or the horseradish you may need to add some water to thin it out. Again, if you find that it's still too sour, add another teaspoon of sugar. Step 3: Keep stirring until you get the right consistency. Step 4: Serve over your platter of chicken and rice! Now that you know the secret to the sauce you can take comfort knowing that to make this properly requires practice, practice, practice! But don't worry about having to make this yourself, because now you know that you can get your fix from these guys almost anytime of day. Don't be fooled by the imposters! Go for the best and stay away from the rest!
First experience with a food cart stand in NYC and we had to try this one because It has over 2700 reviews and rated at 4 1/2 Stars. ?You Yelpers weren't lying...this stand kicked butt. ? At 11PM, we walked over and picked up the chicken/lamb mix with the tzaziki and hot red sauce...and headed back to Times Square. ?While people watching in the stands, we enjoyed every bite. Highly recommended! ?Don't be fooled by the other stands...try this one!
Was it the hot sauce or chicken or the rice, or just everything, it made me really really sick! I am Indian and can handle spices pretty well. Well, I grew up eating spicy food in India so thats spice isnt an issue. I also grew up eating a lot of street food both in India and in the US and thats probably not an issue either. I eat chicken and rice probably 1-2 times every week since I moved to New York. I had heard a lot about this famous chicken and rice place in midtown. I live in the village, go to school there, barely venture above grand central. Last weekend after celebrating a friend's birthday at a bar, I was walking to the subway when I saw a huge line at this cart and I knew this was the famous chicken and rice place. I jumped in to this line without even thinking twice. Ordered one chicken and rice to go. Got home, unpacked it and mixed the ingredients together, the white sauce, a bit of the hot sauce, heated up in the microwave for a little bit to make it warmer and ate about half of it. Next morning I had the worst stomach ache ever. I could not eat anything all day, had to use the bathroom several times, threw up every time I tried to eat something. Bottom line, never eating there again! Good thing it was a Sunday and I didn't have anything too important that day. If it was a weekday I probably would have been in such a great mess that day!
Ehhhhh, it's good Halal food, but certainly not the best. It tastes like it's made for mainstream America and not the hardcore Halal fan. The best I've had so far is in Jackson Heights. Check that one out.
The lamb and rice with red sauce and white sauce is among the most delicious and memorable meals a person can have on this earth. I grew up in New York but don't live there anymore, and whenever I go back this is what I look forward to in the way I hear other people talk about returning to their mom's cooking. This is not good food for a date, as it basically incapacitates you. ?You may need to lay on your back and have no human contact for a while after eating this, either because of stomach pain or because you just need to reflect on how tasty the lamb and rice was. The serving is always enough for two meals, and the containers can go in the oven to be reheated (though I prefer to fry the leftovers to reheat them). Also, the line is not always that long, so it's always worth taking a look to see if it's worth getting in line. You probably shouldn't eat this meal more than once a month. It can't be good for your insides. be careful with the red sauce. A little goes a long way.
This Halal Cart defines what and how food should be cooked and served to a bunch of hungry and sometimes even intoxicated patrons after a night out in the city. Every ingredient just ties in together and makes sense -- from the rice, to the lamb, and to the sauces, it's all brilliant. I'm a huge fan and this will be a must go-to place on my next visit. Just an FYI, sometimes there is a line but it is completely worth it. For all you skeptics, don't expect gourmet or top quality food. Think of the target market this cart is trying to appeal to and then it'll make sense why they're so successful.
I was in NY for restaurant week. ?I had some pretty nice meals. ?But by far, the chicken and rice that I had from "The Halal Guys" was the best thing that I had while in New York.
mmmm
Watch for impostors! This cart is amazing! Probably ate at this place 4x in 2 days my last trip to NYC
I'm a big fan of the chicken, lamb and rice combo. It is greasy so it is not something I want to eat every day. But if I have someone visiting from out-of-town, I like to take him/her here. All my visitors love this place. I think it is a must-do when you visit the city.
I had such high expectations for their chicken and rice because of the high praises I've heard, but it was such a let down. I don't know if it was because the line was so long, but it was bland and lukewarm. My brother actually experienced food poisoning after eating this. It was the only thing he ate that day so it had to be the reason. Overall, it wasn't a great experience
A MUST TRY!!!! One of the things I'll miss about NY because there is no halal anywhere else. It's cheap and it's tasty and worth the 1,005 calories in that white sauce. Be careful with the hot sauce cuz it can get spicy. Everyone of my friends whom I've introduced to halal has loved it. I'm starting to crave it just writing about it.
Love these guys!! I have waited in line like a crazy person for this food! I wished I lived closer, but when I am in the mood for lab over rice and any old cart won;t do I hop my butt on the F and take my place in line!
It's a love-hate with street food for me. Most of the time, the food is overpriced for the small portion you get. But, not at Halal Cart! Halal Cart's menu is very limited, but that's nothing out of the ordinary because food stands have limited supplies. We shared the combination (chicken, beef, and lamb) rice plate for an affordable price of only $6! The portion was HUGE and even on empty stomachs, we couldn't finish it all. I'm not a big fan of the colorless iceberg lettuce shreds, but the meat was good. Get extra white sauce or else the bottom half of the plate (mainly the rice) gets too dry. And only get the hot sauce if you can stand the heat because it's extremely HOT! The plate is very heavy on carbs and protein, so if you're looking for a healthy meal, this isn't the place.
amazing.
I went around lunch, so of course there was a line. ?The line moves pretty fast though. Got the lamb and chicken combo. ?YUM. ?It's actually a decently sized portion for a decent price (under $7). ?Will definitely be back.
Cheap and delicious halal food. They have choice of lamb or chicken or both. I always get the lamb, bf always get chicken. Always top off with white sauce but do not put too much hot sauce, it's HOT!!!! The food is great, but the line is always long. Is it worth the wait? I'd say no (honest opinion!). They have become so commercialized that they have few carts within that block. LOOKOUT for GUYS IN THE SAME YELLOW SHIRT... we had both carts before, and honestly, they taste the same, well they are the same guys!!
So if you go to their website, you can see that they actually have several carts - one is open pretty much all the time. ?(Look for the red and yellow shirts and signs.) I got the mixed platter with white sauce and a little bit of hot sauce (the hot sauce was really good and not THAT spicy, don't be afraid). ?It was tasty - not out of this world, but satisfying. ?I also was starving and could only finish half of it, so I got a second meal out if later. ?At $6, it's a good deal. As you can see from the photos, also, they give you your food in a round tin container with a lid on top so it's easy to take to-go.
Exceptional for the price . I have been craving this ever since I left new York
meat.
53rd & 6th (aka Chicken & Rice) simply put, is what dreams are made of.
Such an excellent place to get your 2 a.m. drunk munchies on. Never had it when I was sober, but I imagine it is just as good. No matter what time of the night you go there, the line stretches at least a block long, and rightfully so. Their prices are very cheap for the amount of food you get. I always get their chicken and rice plate, with their hot sauce. The hot sauce is ridiculously ?hot, one drop will make you sweat. Made a mistake of putting the whole cup in the first time I had it without trying, couldn't even finish the plate because it was just so damn spicy. Excellent thing to warm you up on cold winter nights though.
Of course, I had to go here, it's a NYC landmark. What more can I say that hasn't been said. Yes it was 11pm (it was slightly raining so there wasn't any line). The chicken and gyro meat combo was very good. The rice is especially flavorful though the pita strips on top were kind of random. Also, DON'T MESS WITH THE RED SAUCE! I like hot sauce and thought it was going to be like Tabasco, boy was I wrong! After pouring on way too much, I tried to brave the fire with only the night air to cool my mouth. I think that lasted for about 7 minutes until I neutralized it with the white sauce. For sheer entertainment value, it's at least worth the $6.
You know you gotta try this spot out when there's a line down the block at 3 am. The chicken is delicious. The hot sauce ain't no joke. The prices are decent. And the portions are legit. Need I say more?
over rated....very very over rated. the good: 1) cheap 2) nice portions the bad: 1) flavorless chicken 2) OK gyro meat 3) COLD falafel...WHY IS IT COLD? if its a fried dish..it should be fresh or else it would taste like crap when its cold...which it did. i think people love this place so much bc they are drunk.....people should try it again when they are actually sober. Also there are SO many great places to eat in NY..WHYYYYYYY would you choose to go to this food cart..and the line is freaking long. i just dont get it.
Best sloppy drunken grub ever. ?Lamb & chicken, red & white sauce please.
How can you not love this place? Cheap chicken and rice, lamb and rice, mix plates that taste amazing! When you're not in the mood for a rice platter, you can always get a sandwich or a no-rice plate! I had the privilige of eating here before it was sold off, the quality was slightly better than. It's still pretty good now. Go if you haven't tried it before! 7:30 PM or 4 AM is the best time.
Delish even mid-afternoon and completely sober. ?Moist chicken, fluffly rice, soft pita and white sauce that may or may not be 97% mayo based - worth the wait. Please start a San Diego annex. ?Thx
I grew up eating at this place when I lived in NY and it really is one of the best chicken n rice places I've ever had. When I went back after around two years, I've got to say, the quality of the food has gone down, just a tiny bit though. I guess that's due to the newly acquired fame and glory. Still, they do deserve to be recognized, probably still the best in NY.
Let me start by saying that I am NOT a kebab/gyro person, or a fan of greasy food in general. So the fact that I happily queued at lunch times, ate from the cart three times over a five day trip probably says something. Point is, it's that good. There's a reason why the Midtown crowd come here for their lunch-fix, and ignore the hundreds of other carts nearby. Portions are massive, and for $6, what more can you ask for! (As much as I love this halal cart, I wouldn't recommend eating from it as often as I did. Three times in five days was way too much.)
Everyone raves about this Halal Cart and it is the VERY BEST. Their lines are the longest and you add your own white sauce...Add as much as you want because if you walk away with just a small container, it won't be enough! Keep squeezing it out of the bottle! :) If you tried them all, you have to try the best.
got the combination platter and I couldn't even finish it. it was decent and filling. it wasn't my favorite but I could see why the line is so long for this cart. the hobos will really entertain ya.. we had the one who did Samuel L Jackson imitations. that was a trip.
Countless reviewers have Yelped it and glad to finally say I'm one of them. ?The Halal Guys is the place to go to for your Chicken (or Lamb) and Rice needs. ?Either for an after-party food binge or dinner on-the-go, it's a destination for countless hungry citizens of Gotham, and tourista alike... The wait, although what seems appallingly long is a scant 15-30minutes, shorter when you catch them at the right time. ?There are three such carts to choose from, and they all happen to be covering the corners of 53rd St. and 6th Ave. ?I'm told they have another in 53rd and 7th Ave now. Bias would have you going to the one and only original cart where the line is longest. ?I've tried them all, and they are all equally palatable and worth the wait... but if you must, go to the one that started it all. ?The anticipation is what makes it all worthwhile, right? ?The white sauce is their claim to fame... forget the chicken and rice. ? Drenched atop a steaming pile of chicken and rice, it is the sauce that makes the meal great. ?That, and a dash (yes, I mean droplets) of the infamous red sauce will bring it over the top. ?Grab a couple to go and be sure to grab a yellow bag and some white and red sauce to go. ?What do they put in this white sauce? ?Crack!??? ?It's terribly addicting and so good.
All the way from Hawaii. ?We went to get a late night meal on my nephews friends recommendation. ?The chicken and rice was awesome, beware of the hot sauce. ?I love hot sauces, but this one is up there and I put too much on my food. ?I know next time to go with more white sauce and less hot sauce. ?The food was worth the wait. ?No foolin' the line was long at midnight. ?Halal Guys you are great. ?Hope I have a trip back to NY again so I get more of your food. ?Aloha!
Delicious, stuffed my face so fast with the lamb & rice that I got a stomach ache. It was worth it.
So my sister has been telling me about this spot for a while. I'm very picky with the chicken in most carts there is to much curry and actually has a nasty taste. So I usually get falafel since I know I won't dread that nasty chicken taste and feel like I have to throw up!! ?BUT THEN the day came .. I was introduced to THE HALAL GUYS.. On a tuesday around 745 pm me and my sister decided to go . First we seen another truck across the street by the CBS building (which is the same guys) some people think its a fraud truck ) its not! They are the Same people. So the line was short prob ten minutes . And then my turn came. I got the chicken and falafel ! I have to say that this is the best chicken that I have had. This is a must try ! White sauce is great ! I think in order for u to understand the taste u must go! ASAP Try going when the first open at 730 !
absolutely amazing, best halal food ever!!! 1 combo plate (chicken and lamb) for 6 dollars filled up 2 hungry people on the streets on nyc, the hot sauce is very vert hot, u cant beat this price and food quality anywhere!! if u didnt eat here in nyc then u messed up and should come back soley for this place, dont eat at any halal carts, eat at halal guys!!! yellow shirts!!
Hooray for yummy cheap street food! ?Thanks to a few recommendations from friends, I found myself tacking this onto my "to-do in NY" list. ?I ordered the combo and was plenty satisfied. ? PROS: It's 6 bucks! The portions are huge. ?The white sauce and spicy sauces are a magical combination sent down from heaven. ?Although, if you don't like spicy beware because that red sauce packs a punch! ?You can ask them for them on the side, which I recommend. Although the "salad" underneath all of the hot rice and meat seems like an afterthought, if you eat them all in combo, you'll enjoy the meal much more- it adds that crunch needed so you don't feel like your shoveling down endless mounds of meat and carbs. CONS: ?I would say that although super tasty and I ate nearly ALL of my food. ?I wish that they had some kinda tart or sour or something in it. ?After a while, my tastebuds started to get a little bored. ?Lastly, not really a con on their part, it is street food afterall...but there is no graceful way of eating this. Find youself a ledge and enjoy. ?Dumb me, I happened to be wearing a light lime colored dress and was just trying to concentrate on balancing on my ledge, whilst not spilling the red sauce which no doubt would leave a stain for all eternity. ? Overall. Tasty and cheap in NY.....HOORAY!
Got food poisoning. Enough Said.
This place has had so much talk; so much hype that honestly I didn't know what to expect. But there I was in NYC and thought to myself why the hell not. I found the place and ordered the combo rice. Sauce on the side. The white sauce seemed like a version of ranch with something else in it, while the hot sauce is no joke. Meat was okay ... some what dry. Vegetables ...??? What Veggies. A few pieces here and there. But you know what ... it mixed together really well. Would I have preffered a little bit more vegetables in the bowl ... yes. Would I want the meat to be a tad bit larger and not so bite sized ... of course. However even how it is now ... I would eat again.
Good before and after the bar...and the next day...and the day after that! I hate even mentioning the bar because you really don't even need to be drunk to eat this!! Everything is fresh, fast and super cheap. Sometimes I pick up a second one for the next day. shhh don't tell!
A huge plate of fatty goodness for $6? Please and thank you. If you have never tried halal food, don't be scared! It's a large plate of chicken, lamb or both with lettuce and pita. Get ?A LOT of fatty white sauce because you only live once and you should enjoy it. Beware of the red hot sauce though; I usually put 10 drips of hot sauce all over. Enjoy your full stomach for cheap!
They are called The Halal Guys, now with new stands open during the daytime, I ventured to one at around 2pm and waited @ 1/2 hr in all. The platter is big with more rice and meat than comparable street stalls and also comes with pita bread. The meat seemed to be of better quality than most places but was a bit bland, even with the white sauce. It was ok, but having tried it, would probably only go back if there was a much shorter line or no line at all.
Is it the Sauce??? Is it the Meat??? Is it the Rice??? I have NO IDEA!!!!!!! but it's FREAKING DELICIOUS!!!!! I am not a Big fan of Lamb, but this Place does it really good!, Doesn't even taste like Lamb at all! I love the Chicken over rice!, Tender, With the white sauce it makes it MUCH Better! I have Tried other places... Can't Compare to this one!. ? __________________________________________________?______ 1) Cash Only 2) Don't confuse them with other Carts next to them (Follow the ones with the LONGER LINES) 3) Eat in the Street, right away!, Don't take it home because it taste different. 4) You have no EXCUSE that you don't have time to go there... this spot opens 24 HOURS!
Simply amazing. This is the one thing I've been consistently craving since I left NYC for Ann Arbor in September and you better believe that this is the first thing I will eat when I have the chance. Best when drenched in white sauce, but beware of the hot sauce. I LOVE hot sauce, but their hot sauce will make you sweat, cry and leave you begging for water.
Yep, they still got it.
there is so little difference between this card and the hundreds of other halal carts in manhattan. if you are nearby and there's no line, by all means, eat here. but, if you are visiting new york and have limited time, do not waste a couple hours getting up here and waiting on line. there are much better ways to spend your week in NYC... anyone who says 'DONT GO TO THE CART ACROSS THE STREET' or "MAKE SURE YOU GO TO THE REAL HALAL GUYS" is an idiot. if you gave them a gyro from 3 different carts and blindfolded them, they would have no idea which one came from this one. ps. the white sauce doesn't have "crack" in it, it has mayonaise, you know like every other halal cart in nyc...
i finally found the best halal food truck in the city. i did Yelp search before i went there and was totally amazed by the 2000 plus reviews. So i had high expectation before i ?tried it. BUT i was still totally amazed how delicious it tasted. It's super cold outdoors in this January evening. I arrived about 4:40 pm. and i saw quite a few food trucks around the intersection. there's another truck with some ppl in line as well but don't be fooled. Look for the one in the south east corner, with the longest line. the line was moving forward fairly fast. and i ordered chicken and lamb combo with lots of white sauce( thanks to previous yelp reviews) The food comes with huge portion. for the same price of 6 bucks as any other food trucks in the city, ?this one has the most meat and it contains both rice and pita bread (not or, both, you can't find this at other places that i've tried). I noticed that they have bottles of white and red sauce in the front of the drink cart and customers can help themselves with the sauce if you want more. ?some ideas of finding a place to eat in a 20F winter weather. You can walk a few blocks down along 6th ave to go underground into the subway station of BDFM, there are quite a few eateries like au bon pain, starbucks. i took my food to au bon pain and bought a cup of hot tea to enjoy my meal with. ?Strongly recommend this place, it's an authentic New York City experience!! One more reason i love NY~~
Let's just say that my boyfriend and I commute from NJ by bus just to fall in line to eat this stuff! You can't really beat the price of $6 for a filling platter. We usually order the combo lamb/chicken. It comes with pita bread, lettuce, rice and amazing white and hot sauce.
bomb dot com. everything i dreamed of and then some. for six bucks you get a huge plate of delicious moist morsels of chicken and lamb over a bed of fragrant reddish rice, piping hot pita bread, freshly shredded lettuce, a white yogurty/ranch sauce, and a hot chilli sauce that will knock your socks off equals phenomenal!!!! so good sooo sooo good...great just what i need....another addiction i developed in ny.
Best after drinks food ever! Also awesome food before hand too. Apparently, 7:30pm shift until after is the real deal but this place is open before 7:30pm too. Order to $6 Combo! Option of ranch, bbq, and spicy sauce! If you haven't tasted the spicy sauce, then try it first before the drench your whole combo with it. They will drench it with whatever sauce you ask for. Also, apparently the workers here are "supppposedly" staff rotation of other halal chicken rice carts in the area. ?O wells, its like sushi......you don't go to a non-crowded place for fresh food haha And yes it is a tourist hot spot. - no seats - stand up or find seating by fountain - to go food but best eaten fresh there - long lines
Ah, the infamous cart. ?Their selling point is that white sauce. ?WHAT IS IN THAT?! ?It's like a mixture of ranch, mayo, plain yogurt, spices, I don't know what, but it keeps you coming back for more. ?And I've also read that the spicy sauce is the sauce of death, so please don't drown your food in that sauce. ?But the white sauce, by all means, do it! But if you take away the white sauce, there's just a lot of yellow rice, lettuce, and your meat of choice. ?I actually find the other part of the meal very medicore. ?Sometimes the rice and/or the chicken is dry, and the chicken really isn't that flavorful. ?And of course the lettuce is iceberg. ?I actually would just want to raid the white sauce from the cart here and put it on my own chicken and rice. So to average out: white sauce is amazing but the food itself is very so-so.
Everyone loves this cart. If you don't, you are a fool. My only warning is to make sure you go to the correct cart because, as you make your way down to the corner of 53rd and 6th, the impostor halal carts will try and holler at you like a bunch of desperate hookers. And much like real hookers, you shouldn't make eye contact with them. Keep your head down until you get to 53rd and 6th, and you will be well rewarded.
Yep, get in line. ?Soooooo good. ? I'll admit that it's hard for me to shell out that much cash for something that I have to carry with me to a nearby bench, but it's worth it. ? I find very little more romantic than coming out of a late movie at MOMA on a nice night, chatting while we wait in line to grab chicken in a pita at the Halal Cart, and then walking this incredible city with a cute date.
One of the best late night food you can have. I actually remember this place more than some restaurants I went to while visiting NY. I jujst got the Chickent and Rice which was great. ?Food comes out on a foil container with all the essentials. ?Simple food open late with great prices. What else needs to be said?
I dream about this place. I went back on my next trip. I tell everyone visiting the city about this cart and ONLY this cart. It has to be a staple. You must go. Seriously, don't stop anywhere else. This is the place to be. AMAZING food.
Don't know if I'm the exception here, but I thought the "food" served by this uber hyped cart was absolutely HORRID. Whilst standing in line with 100s of patrons, I chatted up a few, who all seemed to be eager to try the food after having heard about it online- all lemmings in other words. The quantity of food they give you is impressive, considering the price- but the quality is absolutely horrible. I actually witnessed one of the servers licking his hands with profuse amounts of saliva, and using the same hands to serve pita bread in the platters they give out. The rice was absolutely tasteless, the chicken was mediocre and the "white sauce" tasted like vomit- basically water and mayonnaise with some mystery ingredient- probably sweat and saliva from the cart servers. Just avoid this horrible place.
ate it with an ugly girl named michelle, thats why theres only 4 stars
Food coma. About to die.
My favorite meal in NYC. Their lamb and white sauce is to die for.
Must get every time I'm in the city, even if it's for the next day
First thing my sister said when I told her I was coming to visit her in NY was, "Oh good! I can take you to eat chicken and rice." I was like umm I eat chicken and rice all the time. It's called Hainan Chicken Rice. She proceeded to explain to me about the Halal cart and the white and chili sauce. I was still a skeptic but always up for anything. This was in March and it was 30 degrees out with crazy wind. We took the subway and walked 6 blocks over to this cart. We passed 3 other carts that look exactly the same and has the same food with workers wearing the same shirts. My sister said that those aren't "the one". Still not sure what the difference is but I could tell right away when we got to the right one because the line of people slowly freezing to death was humongous. So did this chicken and rice live up to the hype? I have to admit it's pretty good. The flavored rice and the chicken alone are just okay but it's the sauce that makes it. The white sauce is creamy and tasty. The red chili sauce goes perfectly with the rest of the dish. Just be careful because it's pretty damn spicy. If you put too much you might not be able to eat it. You also get a lot of food. We couldn't finish our food and got 2 meals out of it. I've been craving chicken and rice ever since I came back to LA. I tried to see if anyone around here sells something like that but I haven't had any luck.
They say you gotta try hot dogs and pretzels in NYC. I say try chicken over rice. PRICE ~$6. Surely will guarantee you the best bang for your buck! However, to me it's always more satisfying in terms of quantity than quality. The food is very filling and definitely good for the price (for those fun hungover nights). The line gets very long, but fear not-- they are located pretty much every corner within that block. If you want to grab a quick bite, go ahead. Be warned, though, I am not sure on their freshness. The lettuce is browning most of the time and the chicken can be dry. But that's the real beauty of street food, right? They are very proud of their white sauce, which most people like and get. If you ask for extra sauce, they will give it to you. For more daring foodlers, go for the hot sauce on top of your white sauce and prepare your stomach for some burn! Tip--If you are a friendly girl like me, they will slide in some extra chicken and sauce! ;)
still BOMB! still has a long line but that's okay.
Here's the play by play in my head: Coming up to the stand: "Damn, this smells sooo good" Paying: "Only $6?! I should've gotten two of them!" When handed my chicken & rice: "Okay . . . maybe one is enough" Looking down at my meal: "What's with all this white sauce stuff??" Through the first 1/2 of eating: " . . . . . this hot sauce is too effing hot . . . but it's so good I can't stop . . " 3/4 of the way through: "Okay, I'm starting to get a little sick of this white sauce and my mouth hurts". Done eating: "I need some milk or ice cream" The white sauce is absolutely delicious and really brings together all the components nicely. As another reviewer had noted, it feels like every piece of that meal feels like it belongs there and adds something nice to the dish. Towards the end I started to get a little sick of the white sauce seeing as there was a lot of it and for the record, that hot sauce is no joke. Add with extreme caution. I don't down ghost chilis on the reg but I can handle my fair share of spiciness and that hot sauce will catch you by surprise if you're not careful. Overall, a solid piece of work. It's not fine dining and isn't necessarily the best thing you've ever eaten but it's a pleasurable experience, like finding a double rainbow.
I've been in NYC for the past month and have seen plenty of carts all-over. ?I had chicken and rice before from different carts but a couple days ago, I came here with my boyfriend to compare. ?We've heard that this is the "original" and "best" chicken and rice cart, so we had to try it out for ourselves. ? We got there just in time for a long line to line up behind us. ? We got the mixed chicken and gyro over rice plate and put plenty of white sauce and hot sauce on it. ?It was very tasty and "hit the spot". ?It costs only 6 dollars for the meat, rice, vegetables and some pita breads and it was definitely worth every penny.
sooooo spicy!! (the spicy sauce) yet SOOO amazingly good!! $6 for a large bowl of chicken and rice. sure to fill your late night cravings. GOGOGOGGO the line gets extra long so hurry it up!!
1pm on a Monday afternoon. Hot as hell out and I'm in a suit waiting for street food!!!!! You know what, It was worth the 30 minute wait. Firstly the prices are good for what you get. $6 for a combo plate which consist of chicken, meat, lamb, pita, rice and salad. Can't beat it. All I have to say is go and try it out for yourself. It's worth it.
Many circular foil tins of rice and cabbage are done earlier to the side. All the preparer has to do is plop the meat on the container. The food is nearly to the brim, is enough for 2-3 days. Ideal to get the sauce(s) on the side. An order of the combination with chicken, beef, and lamb. The food is majority rice and chicken while meager portion of cabbage, lamb, and beef.
Halal cart saves lives after long nights of intoxication. Its cheap ($6), filling and probably the cure for your soon to be hangover. You can have huge portions of chicken, lamb, or falafel served over yellow rice, some plain lettuce, and a few piece of pita. ?Kind of bland but the white "tzatziki" sauce helps a little or the "hottest hot sauce on the planet" helps a lot. Do yourself a favor and buy some kind of drink because you're definitely going to need it with or without the hot sauce; this food is salty.
$6 for Chicken over rice. $4 for a Gyro. $6 for a Falafel. The food was crazy good and it didn't break the bank either. The guy at the cart was really nice and service was great. All the food was good, but the chicken over rice is to die for. The chicken is so tender, not overcooked, rice was flavorful, the cut up bread was a nice touch. The white sauce (Tsatsiki sauce) gave the dish a nice pump of creamy flavor. The red sauce ?(hot sauce) is super spicy so don't use too much if you don't like spice. LOVE IT! LOVE IT! This cart stands out above the other zillion Halal carts in Times square.
So delishicious I'm still thinking about it four days later both the falafels and sandwhich was out this world. I was lucky enough to have a fresh batch just they came out of fryer. This can't be good for health but neither is crack.
Totally lived up to and surpassed the hype! Friends always rave about the food here, and I was just thinking how good can it really be? We got the chicken and gyro combo over rice plus two falafel balls for $1 extra. The food is great, and it tastes even better with the spicy and yogurt/tzatziki sauce. The spicy sauce -- you only need a little bit. All of us went back for more of the yogurt sauce! I'd love to go back for more.
I was brought to this place by my friend who lives in NY during my visit to the city - was told that this The Halal Guys is different from all the other countless Halal carts around the city...although I never did try the other carts (no comparison), I can say that it was a very worthwhile experience. The line-up is totally worth it!!! The chicken plate is inexpensive, SUPER delicious (THE RICE IS AMAZING) and most of all, the service was quick and easy. I didn't have to spend more time waiting for the food. It was provided to us right when we paid - HOT and FRESH. I almost believe that everyone should give it a shot and would probably enjoy it a little or A LOT! At first glace, a typical platter doesn't look like anything special. While waiting in line, you'll probably see plenty of people walk up to the front of the stand to see what everyone is waiting for and simply walk away confused. But once you try a platter, you will be back to brave any line during even the coldest winter night. The mix of rice, meat, pita bread, lettuce and sauce is just the perfect midnight meal and the portion size is very filling. The white sauce is a must, but the hot sauce optional unless you have something to drink. This is because the hot sauce is very, very hot. A word to all...ENJOY :)
I ate the halal guys on August 13th before I entered MoMa. The line was definitely long. It was a mix of tourist (like me) and workers in the area. I ordered the Combo (lamb + chicken over rice). I got the "white" sauce and the hot sauce. It was satiating. It was a lot of food for one person and for my size. but I ate as much as I can and because it was so good and I knew I wouldn't have the same experience back at home. Definitely a once in a lifetime must try.
I've always wanted to try these guys but the lines are always long. ?Since I'm on the midnight shift now i get to try them without the long lines. Halal Brothers have the best halal food in the city. ?bar none. ?i've had it everywhere to. ?now I see what all the lines st all about. I had the lamb over a salad no rice the first time. ?I could barely finish it. ? The next night I had the chic over a salad, no rice. ?both times with white sauce and hot sauce. all there dishes are $5 from what can tell. ?what they give you on one fish any other halal trick can make two. Now to the best part, the hot sauce. ?A freaking mazing. ?I love hot sauce, i can drink hot sauce, if I could I would bathe on hot sauce. ?very few ever impress with the heat. ?but let me tell you These guys hot sauce humbled me, ?and that's hard to do. ?the first time I told the guy a lot of hot sauce and he stopped after a short squirt. ?I said not to be shy and he want ?on. ? The first bite I was reduced to a slobbering wimp. ?but I finished it :). ?I wouldl not be defeated!! I paid dearly when I got home on the morning. ?the bathroom needed disinfecting. :) Thank goodness no one was home. I can now say I had the best halal food trick food on the city!! get on line and wait if you have to. ?It's well worth it. ps: the hot sauce is made from the ghost chilli. ?And it's not diluted to much. ?According to the dude I spoke to.
Awesome food.....chicken or lamb. ?You cannot go wrong!
I won't dog this place too much because it is street food after all. ?The food is okay but isn't worth the hype nor the wait. ? Having eaten at many authentic Middle Eastern restaurants, Cart food felt like a poor man's version of Arabic cuisine. ?The lamb and chicken are kinda tasteless on their own and need to drenched in sauce and mixed with bread and rice to be palatable. ?The imitation tahini AKA white sauce, which is mayo and vinegar, is actually quite good but the red sauce is hot as an inferno. ?Anything more than 3 drops will kill you. ?The rice has a nice chicken-ey flavor and somehow when combined with iceberg lettuce, meat, sauces, and white pita bread, these humble ingredients come together to make a satisfying meal. I will say that this cart is better than all of the fake ones floating around the city. ?The amount of food you get for $6 makes this the best value in Manhattan. ?Good place to satisfy your late night munchies.
We had both Halal carts at the corner of 53rd and 6th and I didn't notice much of a difference - I really don't think they are different companies. The white sauce is very delicious but that is probably because it is not very healthy - I think it is mostly if not almost all mayonnaise. The meat itself and the rice underneath are not very good though.
One of NYC's more famous carts and not too far from 30 Rock. They give you an obscene amount of food for not much money. The chicken lacks in flavor but the lamb is ok. Just be warned, the spicy hot is ridiculously spicy. I can handle spicy but this is just like sticking your tongue past hell's gates.
get food here and get beer at the Hilton! AThe spicy sauce is FIREEEEEEEE HOT! watch out! My friend was sweating in 20 degree weather eating it..
Yummm street meat..... Brought my girlfriend here once after a night of partying. ?She wasn't impressed. Brought my old boss here once and he found a metal spring in his chicken. ?He wasn't impressed. Brought a good friend here once... Let's just say he had a serious bowel problem. ?He was not impressed. ***Shrug my shoulders*** Brought myself here once a week when I worked on 56th street. Mixed plate with white sauce and red sauce, please. Always impressed.
Remember when coming here, there are MULTIPLE locations. ?They have 3 carts that are the exact same on 52/53rd and 6th Ave. ?If it's your first time, get the combo (chicken & lamb) over rice $6. ?Otherwise only get lamb over rice. ?The chicken is slightly lacking in flavor while the lamb has tons of spices that go into it that make it much more tasty to eat. ?The experience though of eating the combo over rice is great for someone's first time. ? **WARNING** be VERY careful with the hot sauce. ?It is not something to just douse on your food. ?FIRST cover your food with the white sauce and then sparingly put "drops" , yes DROPS, of the red sauce (10 to 15, sounds funny). ?Unless you LOVE hot food and want to sweat/cry while eating your food, be my guest. Best eaten as drunk food, but great any time of the day as well. ?They give you plenty, so you can share with your significant other and still be full. ?BUT it's good enough to get one for yourself and just pig out.
You only need to come here. ?The rest are just copycat vendors when it comes to the chicken & rice.
Favorite food cart in the city. Like getting the lamb and chicken mix with both hot and white sauce. Great for late night. Worth waiting on the line.
A few years back before these Halal Guys became all the rage, they were producing quality stuff. ?As their popularity soared, the quality went downhill. The chicken is dry. The lamb is good, but I wouldn't say tasty. The white sauce really ties everything in together. I've tried other spots around the city, and they've definitely been a lot more delicious than the 53rd & 6th Carts. On the upside, their prices haven't changed in the last 3 years ($6/platter)!
This is excellent beyond belief. It seems simple cramming rice, chicken (or lamb), and lettuce into a tin plate, but they do it right. Their white sauce is to die for and if you're in the mood to spice it up, they have a good spicy sauce too (which you should be careful about). Sometimes I am tempted to fly from LA, just to eat here. If there is one place I recommend to go eat in NY, this is it. NOTE: Do not get chicken and rice at any other cart besides this one. They're simply the best.
There seriously is a good reason for why they come up first when you google "nyc halal". They are BY FAR the best I've tasted. The white sauce is to die for. ESPECIALLY with friends at 3 AM. Waiting on line, chowing down on their food is amazing anytime. especially when you've done some exercise (ahem~partying*) hehe. Definitely check it out, for your tourists! Feel free to sit on those marbled benches or just go get a drink in Starbucks (across the street) and sit there and enjoy :D P.S. DO NOT beast on the hot sauce. No kidding, it's VERY hot. like the.. milk-won't -cut- it- after- there's- a- hole- in- your- throat- ?kinda burn. BE CAREFUL!!
Cheapest and best eats in NYC! ?Just shut up and wait in line, browse your smart phone or send me a compliment via yelp it will go fast like light-ning
My first meal in NYC (virgin trip at that). We got to the cart around midnight...there were a few people in line but we got our food (combo plate) pretty quickly. It smelled delicious although not so visually enticing. I'm not usually a fan of lamb at all but the lamb did not taste gamey at all. I think we put too much red sauce on it and not enough white sauce. But the meats were very flavorful. Def hit the spot after sitting on a plane munching on popcorn chips for 6, 7 hours.
The original halal truck. ?Had the lamb chicken combo which was more meat that I usually eat in a week. ?It was tasty especially with the hot sauce and white sauce. ?All in all recommended if you are hungry.
A few years ago, a night in the city wouldn't be complete without a stop at the Original CnR spot, after waiting in an unbelievably long line of stumbling party people, looking to quench their flames of alcohol with hot sauce and white sauce. So, with the persuasion of my friend (who would rather wake up with hot sauce on his lips than lipstick) I came up to the surprisingly empty CnR Cart. They set it up like an assembly line. It is very productive when its busy, to have one person taking the money, one serving the food and have the customer personalizing their platter with sauce. We received our chopped up processed meat and rice as quick as they took the money. Most of the time I've been here the over powering sense of hunger lead me to devour the food even if it was less than appetizing. This time my friends and I ended up throwing it out after a few bites. So, save the hype and hunger for out of town NY visitors who don't know any better. For the locals like myself; I would much rather go to any of the other dozens of Carts that have sprung up around my neighborhood. Consistency of quality tends to diminish with increased demand and production.
It is okay. ?The meat is of decent quality but could use some seasoning. ?The rice is sometimes hard and not seasoned well. ? ? what makes them good is their sauce. ?it is too greasy though. ?sometimes it is not well mixed. The size is huge though. ? this stuff is nowhere nearly as good when you are sober. ? def not the best one in nyc. ?try king of falafel.
OK I admit I was a skeptic and was hesitant to try this. ?A friend had to pick up an order of lamb and rice for her fiance (actually, he requested 6 for himself bc he's in Baltimore!) and offered to order me one. ?I refused, but she brought me one back anyway. ?I didn't even have it that night, but I did have some for lunch the next day. ?Considering it was not fresh from the cart, it was pretty good. ?I was even more shocked when my mom told she had it before as well. ?The tzatziki sauce is amazing...I'm personally not one for spicy food, but I've heard it's even better with the hot sauce, too.
Chicken over rice with extra white and hot sauce. Solid food and cheap.
Honestly - I have had food that costs less that tastes a lot better. I am not saying it is bad just not amazing. You get a lot of food for the price but I don't really understand the reason for the lines
$6 for the best street car food in NY should be enough for getting you there!
King of all Halal Carts! Best chicken rice ever! Don't think I need to write too much, since everyone else has written it already. It's definitely a lot of food for the price too! and delicious at that! Just beware not to put too much red sauce. That stuff is SPIIIIIICYYYY! The chicken was super succulent too. I wish they put some new carts all around the city, so I can get it without going all the way to 53rd.
So far, my favorite meal in NYC! For a 30-45min wait and $6, you TOO can enjoy a plate of heaven. I actually stopped by on a Friday afternoon around 3pm. We had already eaten lunch, and I was also planning to eat an early dinner, but I couldn't pass up the opportunity to try the food cart that everyone has been raving about. I actually got in the wrong line first, for The Halal Guys who were on the opposite side of the street before discovering that the 53rd and 6th halal cart was parked on the corner next to the CBS building. Make sure to look for the yellow plastic bags! The wait was about 30 minutes overall, even though it wasn't peak meal time, but there's always room for chicken and rice! I went with the combo lamb and chicken plate with just the white sauce because I had been warned that the red sauce can be quite spicy. But they also have little plastic containers holding extra white and red sauce if you need more. I really like the chicken with the white sauce. The lamb was very tender and well-seasoned. The rice is orange in color but isn't that strongly flavored. And the lettuce adds a nice cooling crunch to the entire mixture. They throw in a couple of sliced up pieces of pita that soak up the sauce pretty well and actually tastes really good, probably because they steam it softer by putting it on top of the meat to keep it moist. I split this plate with two other people, and we definitely all got to eat a large share. I was stuffed! Chicken and rice...so good!
A LITTTTLLEE OVERHYPED! If you compare it to other halal carts it's 4 stars, but let's face it most halal carts are very mediocre. If you compare it to a good schwerma rice plate, it's 2 stars. It's not even close to the quality and tastiness of say Mamoun's.
It was definitely one of the places on my list to visit as many has recommended It is a little confusing since there is like 4 other carts around this block! but look for the picture and signs from Yelp and you'll know which one is which. went during the day and it wasnt much of a line got the chicken and had the sauces on the side and its pretty cheap for a pretty big portion as said by many My opinion - the chicken was a bit dry and a bit bland (duh! thats why theres sauce but still), rice was really good and the lettuce gave it a crunch but if you dont eat it right away, the steam can make it soft. The white sauce taste like a lighter version of ranch and the red sauce is spicy....its good with the food but dont put too much or it become overwhelming it definitely is good for a dinner or lunch but not breakfast =P
The long lines are intimidating, but not as intimidating as the guys working the cart. As my friend and I stood in line during a bitter, cold New York night, we witnessed customers getting yelled at for not knowing exactly what to order, or not giving the correct amount of cash. Here's the thing: when we visited there wasn't a menu in plain sight. It's either you know what you want or get out. Seeing as how it was our first visit, we were really nervous about the whole ordering process. Fortunately, a group of regulars standing in front of us were discussing what they wanted to order, so we eavesdropped and decided to order whatever they were planning on ordering. We went with an order of the chicken rice platter with pita bread, and squeezed over it some hot sauce and white sauce. The pita bread was dry, but other than that minor complaint the platter was delicious and worth the wait. If we had known about the lamb option, we would've ordered that instead.
Been coming here for about 8 years now and have had a chance to see the business grow and become as famous as they are now. However, along with finally "making it" comes a sense of comfort by the owners which can lead to indifference in food quality unfortunately. The name is there, the customers keep coming, yet as a regular here, I can absolutely tell that the quality of the food has gone down at least by 40% which is a shame. Maybe a change in staff or some good competition will get these guys back on their A-game!!!!
*First One-Star Review on Yelp--Let the Haters Hate* This is the first place that has driven me to write a one-star review on Yelp. So, without further adieu, let the ranting begin: Why I don't strictly consider myself a halal connoisseur, I have had more than my fair share from the street carts of NYC. I almost always go for the chicken over rice, so that is what I am rating this location on foodwise. In short, the halal here is not great. In fact, it is the worst I have had in the city. I have been here twice; once at dinnertime to see if it lived up to the hype, and for a second chance late-night despite being overly unimpressed on my first visit. The second experience solidified my initial impressions. The rice here is overly greasy and simply lacks flavor other than a lot of oil and butter. The portion of chicken is mediocre for halal and overly dry. Some places will season it a lot more...if there is anything that distinguishes the chicken here, it is that it is fairly dry but still tastes pretty fatty, if that is even possible. At one of the locations, they only have small containers of the white and red sauces...this was not enough for me. In fact, neither of these sauces are particularly good, which is surprising since it seems most of the other halal places use the same basic stuff. I could understand this place having maybe a 4-star rating driven solely from tourists who have never had halal before and are drunk enough that cardboard would taste delicious at 3am. However, I am astounded by the number of New Yorkers who espouse their love for this place, and give this place five-star reviews. I may be a "B&T"er but I damn well know good halal when I run into it and, while this place may have once been great, it's currently just banking on its fame and recognition. The people who run the place are nice enough and work efficiently--I have had no problem with service and commend them for running a good business. But you are still going to wait here for a while at just about any hour you show up at. In another city, I might give this place three stars because its still pretty good, cheap, and convenient. However, I'm docking a star since the hype surrounding this place is more overblown than any other food establishment I have ever visited, and its right smack in Manhattan, where there are so many other better halal carts around. Final Verdict: If you are visiting New York and feel so compelled really give this place a try, then by all means do so but I at least beg you to try another, random halal cart (ideally away from a touristy place but really ANY other one will do). I can almost guarantee you will get superior halal, likely for a better price and little to no wait.
I've been wanting to try this place ever since my friends posted their check-in status on facebook. Thanks for making me jealous! I finally got my chance to try this place on a recent mileage (united) run to NYC. My fiance and I ended up eating here during both nights of our relatively short stay. The first night we got the mixed plate (chicken and gyro meat). After sampling the mixed plate, we came to the conclusion that the gyro meat was better, it had more flavor. Therefore, on the second night we ordered the gyro only plate. Either plate was $6 and included rice, and much to our surprise, soft pita bread. You don't know how many places we've been to where you need a saw to eat the pita bread. The key to this dish is the white and hot sauce. I learned my lesson after the first night, go easy on the hot sauce. When they say hot, they mean it.
man this is some good chicken n rice. im a huge chicken and rice fan. probably the biggest chicken n rice addict in the world. the first time i went to 53rd and 6th was because of all the hype i heard from my friends at school. the food is good, but I think Sammy's Halal in jackson heights is better. these guys are REALLY fast and efficient and give a lot of food (good portions). put some nice white sauce and a bit of hot sauce (in the winter) n ur set my dude. long lines here even in the winter but they move fast and it's worth the wait. especially after u vomited ur brains out and reek of alcohol from a wild night at pacha or webster hall.
Excellent. Get the rice combo
This was amazingly delicious! Huge portions and it is cheap! The rice, pita, lettuce, chicken and sauce... perfect combination!!
I have added this on my bookmark since 4/10/2008! Just this weekend we finally met and our affair blossomed. ?It was a delicious late night ordeal. ? But to me this great affair will only last if I'm always intoxicated. ?Otherwise, I will not go out of my way to get some. ?Like a late night booty call but only if he lives close by...haha I kid. I am a fan :D ?but next time I will have to go easy on hot sauce and ignore the little kids standing in line talking about their amazing night while almost getting to 2nd base with some chicks. ?Besides that woohoo for some cheap late night nom nom nom!
I finally went this place with my husband in 3days ago. I've been know about this Halal cart in long long time but I never had a chance to try. The food was great, very quick service, good price!!! We went there on Monday night about 8:30pm. The famous cart had a line after line..but that was very short time we waited. If you want to have a quick good meal, I'm strongly recommended!
This halal cart is good cheap food for the quantity given. Not the best quality out there, but the lamb isn't too gamey, and the chicken is chicken. The white sauce is a little off, but it helped give the plate moisture. This cart is probably best for late night muchies.
You know this place is legit when people are standing in line even during a thunderstorm. We got the chicken and rice and it was SO GOOD! I'm glad they put the sauce on the side so the rice and pita didn't get soggy. Don't be tricked by "fake Halal Guys". You can tell because this place not only tastes good, but also smells great also! I'm sure I will be back and everyone should try it at least once!
Their food got really salty :( & they're skimping out on the amount- in 2008, it used to be up to the rim not its about 75% full. I think its because they want to finish the line. Well guess what? Customers will always be there, but until they stop coming because of your inconsistency, might as well try to keep us by changing your ways. But hey it's all up to you. Juicy platters doesn't require a $12 toll.
Combination platter! ?juicy meats! some lettuce for a little crisp and some perfectly cooked rice. ? so substantial, so good, and super cheap WARNING - that red sauce is not gochujang, its actually some sore of FIRE PASTE! it burns hard comming in and comming out. just slather your plate in BBQ or ranch sauce instead...
The best bang for your buck and most important of all, it was tasty. Although I could only ate one portion on the site (you will understand when you see the portion), I ended up taking another to go home.
Wow... this place was cheap and delicious. The line took about 5 minutes if that and it moved surprisingly quick. Between the three of us I'm pretty sure we got to sample all there is to offer, and it's all very very delicious. The hot sauce that everyone talks about and that has warning signs all over it IS VERY HOT, and I have a huge tolerance for spice/heat in food. You would be a fool if you're in the area to not at least try this cart and grab a bench around the corner and enjoy a cheap delicious meal in Manhattan and people watch. I would agree that teh falafel was kind of dry and not the best I had (still good) but everything else was so great it overlooks it. Make sure you go to the right one because imitation food carts that look very similar to thoses unfamiliar are within 20 feet of this one.
The falafel was drier than the average halal cart, guys. An extra star because of the kickass hot sauce, the portion size, and price, though. How all the hype, though? I don't think I've ever seen anywhere with this many reviews. What's the backstory?
Ever since my first trip to New York, I have been trying to come here. ?Seeing that this was going to be my last trip for a while, I told the other half that we MUST stop by. We got here @ about 8pm & there was a decent sized line; fortunately it moved quickly. ?We both got a Combination platter with gyro & chicken. ?THe rice was a little dry, the pita slices were a little soggy, but the meat was very tender & flavorful. ?They only give out a small container of hot sure but, let me just say, it was more than enough; thank goodness there was the yogurt sauce (?) to cool everything down. I came, I saw, I conquered. ?While it wasn't perfect, I would definitely recommend everyone I know to try it out if they ever visit New York. ?As for me, until next time!
The taste is good sometimes. but does it deserve the stomach cramps?
Also known as the Halal Guys why else because they are the best! Get the combination plate with lots of white sauce and some hot sauce. It's the best $7 you'll spend! They give you plenty of rice, lots of salad, pita bread and tons of meat. It's worth the wait, but they've strategically set up multiple carts. People say that there is only one cart that is theirs, but I don't really care if the others are posers because they've got the same quality the same idea and a lot less of a line. Who knows though it could be them since they have the yellow bags, the same brand and everything. I can't really tell the difference so I don't really care. But yes, generally around 53rd and 6th ave you can expect the same quality of halal because this is the competition.
Pro: Big tasty portions at an incredibe price of $6. Con: The Hot sauce hurts you twice. (if you know what I mean)
I hadn't been to this place for a long time and after going there last night and eating some of the worst cart food ever, I realized why my friends and I have stopped coming here. I used to eat here in the late 90s and early 2k; it was regular stop for me and my boys. I remember driving down to this spot all the way from Stony Brook university after exams with a huge crowd and we'd chow down some of the best cart food. This was back when there was only one cart and it was not an assembly line, each plate was cooked mixed with onions, peppers, other vegetables and spices that actually had flavor, topped with their amazing white and hot sauce- and no I'm not talking about the crappy white and hot sauce (hot sauce has no flavor, its just plain super hot) they serve with platters these days. I really don't understand the massive lines they still get. I think most people go there because its a "thing to do" and not because they serve good food. These people need to have their taste palates checked out...seriously people, this food sucks! I understand the owners need to make money but seriously with some effort they can at least attempt to keep their original standards of taste. I guess if you are drunk and stoned and don't care about what you put in your stomach you are in the right place. But if you want a halfway decent food, take your taste palates elsewhere.
Excellent cost, good food, long lines but they move quickly. Love the late night hours.
Lamb and chicken combo - nuff said
they have cut down their portions a lot. They used to give you a ton of meat and rice now its almost not enough for a meal. hey Halal guys that stuff cost like nothing pour it on
first hot sauce to burn from my mouth to my esophagus but totally worth it! The more it burned the more I wanted.
The famous Chicken and Rice cart on 53rd. Coming all the way from Cali my friend suggested that I must hit up the street food. My initial reaction to this was,"you crazy!!!" After tasting the delicate cuisine it turns out I'm the crazy one. It was sooo bomb. The line was super long for any kind of business, but well worth it. Best believe the next time im in NYC I'm hittin' up the 53!
The portion they give you is equivalent to two (2) chipotle burrito bowls! The best tasting street food I ever had! White sauce = crack
Ah, the much loved "white sauce". Honestly, I think it just tastes like glorified Ranch dressing with maybe a hint of garlic.*ducks* But one can't deny the supreme value of an insane amount of grub with such affordable pricing ($6!!!!). They don't skimp on the meat at all and I actually kinda wish they gave me more rice (instead of meat)! It seriously fed me for three meals. I finished half as a late night 2nd dinner, and the other half was split into breakfast portions that fed me for 2 mornings. My love for carbs was deliciously satisfied and the heated leftovers are darn tasty too! It is also really nice that they are not stingy with giving people their beloved white sauces for to go orders. Weeknight at 11pm = no lines! NY return factor: Quite high. Cheap is not easy to come by in NYC at all. Especially cheap & filling!
Hands down the best Halal in the city. They pack your plate full with a generous portion. Going anywhere else is a waste of money and never compares to their cart. If they have a big line on one side of the avenue, check across it because they have another cart that usually has a lesser line, ?just make sure its the one with the yellow & logo!
we used to go to this place a lot but management changed a few years back and the quality and taste of the food has dwindled since.
This particular halal cart is associated with the funnest nights of my life since college. ?Most recently, I had a chicken and rice platter after a concert at Radio City. ?The food is great here and I love that it comes with a few pieces of soft warm pita. ? I only have one caution. ?Until recently, I thought there was no such thing as too much white sauce. ?Well, here, they let you control the amount of white sauce/hot sauce and I covered my entire platter with it. ?Not a good idea... ?My friend's system is to start with a little hot sauce and white sauce and add white sauce as needed.
The wait in line is totally worth it! Just think about it... if you've had halal before, THIS clowns all the rest. $6 for a heavy portion, plus that delicious white sauce! I'd have to go back to the city for more. That and the grilled corn at Cafe Habana on Prince St. Check that out:) Crack on crack on crack...
So stupid me decided to get in line to try this place out since it's the talk of the town after clubbing hours. The food here is ok, nothing spectacular. I guess the main reason why everyone and their moms decided to come here is because of #1 the hype and #2 the low price. For only $6, you get this massive portion of rice, flat bread, vegetable, your choice of meat, and a delicious white sauce. Overall, I do not think this place is worth the wait but if you are short on cash and want a good meal for $6, this is the place for you.
Fun facts: 1) Before there was Yelp, and before Facebook was open to people aside from college students (remember that one?), there was a Facebook page called "The chicken and rice on 53rd and 6th is like crack." 2) Before there was Facebook, there was a Usenet group called misc.53chicken.crack.* 3) Someone once cut in line and got stabbed.** 4) The white sauce has been proven to be mostly mayonnaise, with some other stuff sprinkled in it... probably crack. 5) The internet did a food analysis of a plate of chicken and rice with white sauce and found out that it was something like 1800 calories. 6) One time I had some miniscule residue of the hot sauce on my hands and absentmindedly rubbed my eye. I'm fairly sure I can now sympathize with the Occupy protestors that took mace to the face, in addition to anyone who's ever had gonorrhea of the eye, if that's even a thing. 7) No one gives two shits about the above six facts when it's 3am and you're inhaling a grizzy, delicious, should-be-a-Schedule-1-controlled-substance chicken and rice and crack platter while completely blitzed the fuck outta your dome. Like Jigga said - no room service, just snacks and shit. *May or may not be true. **Definitely true.
I'm not going to say anything new/different from these others reviews so I'll just say... Absolutely the best Halal Cart in NYC (in my opinion). ?Chicken over rice w/ white sauce is all you need to know. ?They're hot sauce is super hot so beware. Definitely a must try in NYC!
chicken and rice please! i love stuffing my face with this greasy, fatty but oh so good and comforting food after a night of drinking. Even when i am not highly intoxicated, the chicken and rice from 53rd and 6th is oh so rewarding. its the perfect blend of spice, chicken, rice and oh that green stuff they call lettuce. I hate vegetables, but for some strange reason, the lettuce works on this plate. the lettuce gives this platter, the crunch and moisture content this fatty goodness delivers. I have cut down on my chicken and rice consumption, but every-time i walk by this cart, my mouth starts to salivate and 6 dollars all of a sudden flies out of my wallet and a plate of heavenly fix appears on my lap.
A while back a friend told me about this cart..."it's the best in the city" he said. So we went after a club outing at about 4am. No I wasn't drunk or starving so my judgement was intact. There was actually a long line (but it was moving) so I'm thinking maybe this dude is right. So I got the typical chicken over rice with white sauce. The chicken's flavor was just okay but I definitely had better. Maybe it was b/c of the late night/early morning batch but still..
I'm not a huge fan of Halal, but I was pushed into taking a friend from out of town to try the 53rd and 6th location carts. At $6 for a sizable portion, the price here is relatively cheap. I actually enjoyed the lamb and chicken combo. I think the rice is less greasy than at other Halal places so it tastes better. (Don't count on being healthy with that white sauce though). The portion was way huge - I couldn't even finish it. Avoid the hot sauce if you can't take the fire!
I've wanted to try chicken and rice here for YEARS - seriously. I've heard about it in high school; people would go at night, when I wasn't allowed out. I've heard a high school friend say that his parents drive 8 hours down to North Carolina (where we went to college) with boxes of frozen chicken and rice because he craved it so much. I've heard various reviews from my friends - from the "absolutely phenomenal, incomparable" to "overrated." I had to try it for myself. I was actually feeling slightly ill as we were walking to the Halal Cart, and I felt really anxious; please, pleease let me be able to eat this! I've wanted it for so long ... :( A friend bought me ginger ale and I sat on one of the benches around the corner. (Walk along the street where there's a halal cart on every corner, to the end of the block - there is A LOT of great seating). My other friends stood in line and I waited anxiously for my body to recover by the time they got back. It didn't fully recover, and my friends were worried that the chicken (and lamb) and rice would exacerbate my situation. It did not. Contrary to all expectations, every bite made me feel better, and I eventually started scarfing it down. The pita was delicious, tinged with meaty flavors and white sauce. We didn't get as much white sauce as I would've wanted, but the taste of the juicy chicken and lamb really came through. The Halal meat was delicious - not exceedingly flavorful, as I had expected, but lightly done so that the flavors of the chicken and the lamb were brought out. I usually HATE lamb, but I couldn't say no to my friend (whom I was sharing the chicken & lamb & rice with) because she likes lamb so much. For the first time ever, I actually really enjoyed it. YAY! All-around fantastic experience - made me feel better, made me enjoy lamb, and all for only $3 (since I shared it with a friend). Very filling, too. Fabulous. Be careful not to go to the wrong cart; there are quite a few on the corner of 53rd and 6th. That said, I still need to try other carts' chicken and lamb and rice.
Wow this place was amazing from what the cart looks like; you wouldn't imagine they could make something so tasty on a cart like this. I have always heard about these guys in NY and I finally got to try it. I got the half chicken and half lamb over rice with hot sauce and OMG, I am salivating as I write this. The meat was so flavorful and moist. I don't know what they put in that white sauce, but there must be some kind of drug in it because it makes you wanting more! If you can't take spicy, then don't get the hot sauce on it because it will burn your hairs straight off. This was probably the best bargain deal for lunch or any other food in NY for that matter. $6 a plate is a can't beat price and it fed 2 people easily! I def recommend trying this place in NY, because it is a must eat place.
Being in NY for almost 6 days and having seen the same type of carts in almost every other block in Manhattan, I came here on 53rd & 6th finally. It was ?almost 8 pm and I stood in line along with only 4 people in line. It started to rain on Tuesday! These guys works swiftly and packed the chicken & lamb with rice to the ?brim of the container! ? I quickly walk over to the side of the building and proceeded to eat my delightful meal under the pouring rain, It was magical, sitting on the street nearby with others doing the same, it was a blast! ?THIS is NEW YORK!! Very COOL! What a way to end my food tour in NY, but Wait!!...I still got till Weds. before leaving.....
Seeing all these 5-star reviews makes me wonder if the majority of people who eat here are swayed by their inebriated state. I beheld the long (but relatively rapidly flowing) line of post-party people here at around 3am on Saturday night and even though I wasn't really hungry I got myself a heaping plate of chicken and lamb over rice. It was a massive portion for around $6 (if I remember right; I was buzzed too) and liberally applied the white sauce, and not-so-liberally applied the hot sauce, as recommended by all you Yelpers. While it was definitely a tasty dose of late-night street meat, I just can't bring myself to give it 5 or even 4 stars. Maybe if I frequented halal stands this one would prove to be head and shoulders above the rest, but I don't, so I don't have much to compare it to. It was good, maybe even more than good, but not amazing, especially when you factor in the wait and the havoc it will surely wreak on your digestive tract.
Seriously? Tried it and I just don't know why people line up for this. There are a ton of other halal carts in nyc that are better. totally average.
Tips: The line can be super super long but remember they have multiple locations, just look for the sign about the Halal guys,. Ask for extra hot sauce & napkins, they will not provide.
What in the world is this WHITE sauce?! It was so good! I had the rice, lettuce, chicken and beef. The aroma is phenomenon! My friend told me you can't go wrong with this place. She's right.
The original chicken and rice is 100 times better than any other halal cart's in the city, and I don't feel that I am exaggerating. Everything about their chicken and rice (including chicken, rice, white/spicy sauce and pita bread) is a class above regular chicken and rice you would find on the street. Despite the long line and no seating area, I am willing to come here whenever there is a chance.
It is rare that food is so good that I am pitched headlong into confusion. As in, "This food was so good, I didn't even understand what was happening before my eyes and taste buds." For six dollars, I got a plate of food that could have easily fed three or four people, but I finished basically all of it, taking a bite or two from my companion's plate of falafel. In a handful of minutes, I'd polished off the combination gyro and chicken over rice with a coddling blanket of white and red sauce...and the pita bread. We're talking about something that was easily 2,000 calories, almost twice what a woman my height and activity level needs. And it was worth. Every. Cal. Gluttony seems to take on a new norm in New York, and I must say that street food is a wonderful, nigh brilliant method of this indulgence. Goal: Move to New York, move into apartment, live off one plate of 53rd/6th Halal for an entire weekend. :P
Get the mix....I don't care if its cold out and the line is down the block...it's worth the wait!
This place is so overrated. The chicken is bland and tough, and isn't cooked or marinated with spices. The white sauce is very good and the red sauce is spicy as hell, but really there are thousands of better carts in the city. Don't follow the crowds!
Absolutely outstanding. The sauces were amazing. The red sauce definitely has a kick, so be careful! You might want to bring drinks with you, I think they have a side business selling expensive drinks at a drink cart next to their cart, which is a bit pricey imo.
This place is the best. I don't know how they do it. Other people have tried, but it's not the same. Yes it's probably the best drunk food ever, but lets not sell it short. I don't get to visit New York very often so when I do, I make sure to load up when I can. I'm not ashamed to admit that I get an extra order just for me to eat the next morning. It's still good. You can't go wrong with either chicken or lamb. It's preference really. I usually get the combo since I love both. Drown them in white sauce and take it easy on the red. I love spicy food and I can handle it, but that stuff is really spicy so be careful. Without question it's the best $6 I've ever spent on late night food.
I have way too many check-ins at this place for my own good... (I am currently the Duke as of the day I'm writing this.) I love this place for a good cheap ($6/platter) after-(bar/theater/hanging-out) food. ?Although three lasted hours are generally true, I've seen them open a lot earlier and a lot later than the hours listed on yelp. I've seen them open as early as 4 pm and as late as 5 am. I haven't had a chance to try their gyros ($5) but their platters are exactly that, just on a plate instead. I always order the platters. Portions are of good size and contain lamb or chicken or both (combo) with rice and veggies and pita bread. You can add white sauce and red sauce as needed. There's also something that looks like bbq sauce there. I've never tried it, but I have seen it in case you are so inclined to try it. Lines are always long at late night hours when everything else is closed as you might be able to see from some of the photos. I don't think there is much else for me to cover that hadn't already been covered.
I thought this cart was excellent. ?The chicken and lamb were hot, not greasy and the white sauce in excellent on the platter. ?I liked the hot sauce, but listen to fellow yelpers and use in moderation. ?We stayed at the Hilton, which I was not impressed with, but the upside is we found our favorite cart in the city. ?Visit this cart if you can!!! ?Ps...it is the one with the line from day to night.
Wow! This is great stuff- The smell alone is 5 stars!
3.5 stars upgraded I'm baffled by the unending 5-star praise this cart gets. It's good, but not *that* good, damn!!! For instance, the super secret special white sauce is like a cross between ranch & yogurt or sour cream... And the falafel could've stood to be fresher/less hard. But... The combination of rice, lettuce, that white sauce, super-duper-make-you-sweat hot sauce & falafel was pretty effin' tasty at 2:45 in the morning. BFF & various members of our *ahem* crew visited the cart 2-3 times during our stay. The lines are long, the food is cheap ($6 for my rice combo), but it isn't quality. Tastes better the drunker you are!
What do you get when you take a platter, fill it with buttery yellow rice, fresh lettuce and tomatoes, hot savory meat, soft pieces of flat bread, and white and spicy red sauce? ?The best street food ever! ?The gyros are delicious too, but talk about a filling platter of hot yummy goodness! ?I had the chicken platter while my fiance had the gyro platter. ?Both were flavorful, although I think I preferred the gyro meat better. ? There are a bunch of halal carts in NYC, but from what I can tell, this one is the best! ?And if you're having trouble locating the right one, just look for the cart with the longest line. ?Happy eating! - Brownie Out!
Worth the wait, even in a cold day
Drunk, check. Starving, check. $6 cash in hand, check. You are now ready to feast in the glory of all that is the staple drunk food of NYC, chicken & rice. Indulge in the white sauce, be cautious with the red sauce (a little goes a loooong way), and girls feel free to share (I can never finish one by myself).
Absolutely amazing is the phrase which comes to mind when i have chicken with rice here... Try the chicken and rice combo with White and hot sauce (Hot Sauce is unbelievably hot... I am from India and its too hot for me even) The queue tends to be pretty long here between 12 - 1 so be prepared to stand for 15 minutes before you are served... but the food is worth the wait...
Yumyumyum! Halal doesn't get better than this! I always get the combo and split it with a friend. It comes with rice, chicken, lamb, pita, and salad in a large takeout box. Drench it in white sauce to tie it all together in deliciousness. Add some hot sauce if you like spicy - and I mean throat-and-tongue-on-fire spicy. My first time here, I ate pita with a glob of it thinking it would be like BBQ sauce - nope! My face burned for an hour after that. There are, from my understanding, two carts across the street from each other that are, debatably, exactly the same. I go to the ones without the flashy matching t-shirts.
I once captioned a picture of their food as "orgasm in a tin foil pie plate." Cheesy, I know. But it's that good! The lamb is sausage-like (think gyro meat), and the chicken seems to be a mix of dark and white meat. White sauce is divine, red sauce is extremely spicy. Please just start off with one or two drops of the red sauce - otherwise you'll end up on the toilet as some poor unfortunate souls have done here. Tip: Their website (currently down), used to list all the times they were in operation at 53rd and 6th. Apparently during the day it's not them that's operating the cart, but if you come at night or late night, just stand behind the long line and you'll be safe. Also, ask for no lettuce for more rice! Also, if you get it to go, they give you little containers of their sauce to indulge on later.
This place makes my list of MUST EAT's in NYC. I had high expectations going in to this. All my friends and family have tried this, but me. The white sauce, the red sauce, the chicken, the lamb, the rice, the pita and lettuce it all came together so well. Why? How!? It's all in the white sauce! Put lots and lots of white sauce! And don't forget to add a touch of hot sauce!
Just follow the lines of people. ?Simply amazing. ?Get the white AND the hot sauce. Tip: you get a HUGE portion of food. ?My wife and I could have easily shared one.
Great spot! You get super full for 6$. Extra white sauce with bbq! Watch out with the hot sauce because it can be deadly.
For a quick delicious meal with cheap prices you can't beat it!! ?I try to pick it up EVERYTIME i am in the city....even when I am not hungry. ?It is just as great the next day!
Had it again for the umpthteenth time last night....greazy, salty, butt-enlarging greatness. Your stomach may pay for it the next day (I think mine is grumbling as I write), but it's worth it. Lamb isn't gamey at all for those who are hesitant. I usually order the combo and mix it with the chicken. Slather a bunch of that white yogurt sauce, add a TAD of the red sauce (beware!) and you've got a diesel meal for about 5 bucks. Ambience: can't get better than outdoor dining among beautiful skyscrapers and the pleasant sounds of the nearby fountain. Grab a prime bench seat or pop a squat and ENJOY.
I had heard about this place for years from my high school friends, but had never been. I finally grabbed a bite here last week. The line was long, but moved fast. When it was my turn to order, I got the lamb/ chicken combo with extra white sauce (because I heard that stuff is like crack). I will break down the plate per item Chicken-Very Tender and juicy but overall flavorless. Disapointing Gyro Meat- Very tasty. My favorite part of the plate. I wish there was more of it Rice. The most abundent thing on the plate, which disapointed me. I expected more meat . or at least half meat half rice. It was more 1/3 meat and 2/3 rice. But for street rice...it was pretty good. Pita-Good standard pita Red Sauce- HOTHOTHOT, but good. use sparingly The Famous White Sauce- This has to be some sort of garlic yogurt thing. I had something similar at Maoz vegetarian, and it tasted exactly the same. But it was ok, and provided good flavor Overall I am happy that I tried it, and for 6 dollars its a good deal. But I feel this place was over hyped by my standards
free reusable shopping bag!! with their logo on it? yes. thank you!
Oh My Goodness! ?I wanted to eat at a Halal cart, tried one near Central Park and hated it. ?Someone told me to try The Hala Guys and what a difference. ?I am craving their food as I write this review! ? They are only open in the late evenings and always have a really long line. ?The line moves quickly and it is well worth the wait. ?So cheap and oh so good! ?Beware of the hot saucel it's really hot! ?But the white sauce is amazing.
Great late night snacks...even better late night people watching. Always a line, any time of the day or night...
Could this be New Yorks #1 Drunk Food Spot? The lines are long but move quickly. For $6, you get ?a very generous plate of either chicken, lamb or beef, rice, lettuce and vegetable, and warm pita. They offer other options as well, like Falafel or sandwiches. From there, you can either get White or Red sauce. What exactly is the white sauce? Rumors include mayo, Ranch, vinegar, yogurt, sour cream. I just think it's made from heaven. I always stick to the chicken and rice with white sauce. It's simple, filling, and delicious.
Street vendor cuisine at it's finest. Mixed meat and rice. Free bags while waiting in line, ayce sauce, good amount of grub for only $6. Looks like I'll be staying across the street at the Hilton next time I'm in NYC.
basmati delicious. nice texture on the bread..humongous portions...red sauce will put a hole in the pit of your belly....gyro and chicken combo $6. Fresh, crisp lettuce, wonderfully fresh meat, generous portion....white "yogurty-tzatziki-like" allll over ur tray...and be lighthanded with the other one. Came on Tues. night. Zero line. Transaction total time:40 seconds PS Halal cart across the street East is also all owned by the same fam. Last i heard they operated like 3 carts, all within walking distance to one another!
wait what?? I still haven't reviewed this place? two years ago i went on a foodie tour of new york. a YELP foodie tour. my friends and I hit up only restaurants with 4* and above and ate at 5 restaurants a day. ?yah i know, we're such yelp snobs. the 53rd & 6th halal cart was one of our many destination and one of the highlights of our trip. we too stumbled over to the cart after a long night out ?and waited nearly 20 minutes in line. the aroma of the meat ?while standing in line made me anticipate it even more, and i was not disappointed. i thought i was being over zealous with the white sauce but i found that i had to go back to drench my dish with some more. definitely get the mixed meat so you can have a bit of chicken and gyro meat at the same time! totally amazing that it's basically a full meal and a half for $6: salad, pita bread, and chicken lying on yummy basmati rice. we had left overs for the next day! which by the way, tasted totally awesome. if there were to be a throw-down between carne asada fries and chicken & rice, i would say, chicken & rice wins!
Being review #2988, I don't think there's anything I can possibly write about this Halal Cart that hasn't been mentioned in the other 2987 reviews. We walked over here after we watched Spider-man the Musical on Broadway since we were starving. ?You can't go wrong with the $6 plate of chicken & rice, probably one of the best deals in NYC. It's a must try stop when you're in the city, but keep in mind they're only open for dinner and the late night crowd (we tried looking for them around lunch time, but to no such luck). ?They have it down to a science where they keep the line moving. ?So organized that they have a separate cart specifically for cooking the extra food (purchasing & plating of your food is at the other cart), a guy to sweep up our trash and extra trash bins for the huge following of hungry customers they have. Make it a point to bookmark this spot if you're in NYC. ?Great fourth meal that you have to experience for yourself.
Everything I expected and more! Meat is very flavorful! I got the chicken and lamb gyro with white sauce and spicy sauce mmm mm good! ?But I must warn you, if you are not too big on spicy dont get the red spicy sauce! ?It is HOT!I
With 3,000 reviews on Yelp already, there isn't much I can add. I will tell you that the meat has become greasier over the years and it's not as good as it used to be. You were, of course, too drunk to notice. However, the one constant has been their sauces. Actually I would say that they have improved the sauces over the years. Either that or my palette appreciate them more than they did all those years ago when I first discovered them. The meats themselves aren't flavored much, but it's all about the sauces here. I will usually load up on the red hot sauce. The white sauce is awesome as well but it's the fiery red hot sauce that really does it for me. I will take a couple of extra ones and mix it with other stuff at home if I can. It's addictive as hell.
Four carts at Four corners all of them are legit. I mean you can pick and choose. Usually people go for the longest line but I say they are all wearing the same Yellow tshirt so why waste time. All four of them had lines. 6.00 for a combo of lamb and chicken. Always go for the mix, you get a bit of everything. 1 hot sauce and 2 white sauce on the go. Everything goes well together. Love the white sauce. Huge portion which I can never finish. Always had food coma afterwards.
Show up on the corner and you'll see like 4 carts. ?I had no idea which one was real so I went with the one that had the longest line. ?I actually didn't wait that long, maybe 10 minutes. ?I tell you the guys are efficient. ?Of course...it's a cash place. For $6 the mixed chicken/lamb over rice is a steal and pretty darn tasty. ?Red and white sauces are noms as advertised. ?I may have put a little bit too much spicy sauce, oh well. ?I can see how this is a pretty awesome post drinking place. The rice was so so. ?I wish it had a bit more flavor. ?The chicken had a decent charred flavor, but by itself was a little bland. ?The lamb actually was pretty well spiced. ?Separately they're ok, but put the sauce on it and mix it up and it's bomb. A few downsides include that they only really come out at night and I've heard that the line can get quite long. ?With so many carts who knows if you chose the right one (though I've heard there are things you can look for). ?That being said they're open at 4 am...let's say that again they're open at 4 am. ?Perfect for when you need some food to soak up the drinks. ?Not that I think they have a whole lot of competition, but I could be totally wrong since I'm not too familiar with NYC. A couple of interesting points that did color my review: 1. The line I had to wait in was pretty short maybe because it was 4 am 2. It was Halloween weekend and there was a random fight where I saw someone dressed up as a Where's Waldo get knock the f out. In any case, I would keep this place in mind for any late nite munchies that hit.
Sigh, I was giving my friend some NYC recs and this came to mind and now I'm craving some chicken and rice!!! If you have ONE night in NYC, you MUST stop here for a late night snack or dinner (and make sure you have multiple dinners haha). For $6 you get a HUGE amount of food. Their sauces are delicious, I always get extra white sauce. This is worth waiting for. Don't get impatient and leave or go to another cart because you will miss out.
Theres over 2000 reviews and this place has almost 5 stars on yelp. Therefore enough said.
Okay, before anyone calls a mob with torches and pitchforks, I'm just going to say it: 53rd and 6th is NOT the best Halal in New York. Now, I know what you're thinking. "Did you go to the right one? You know it's the one with the yellow bag, right?" Yes, I know. And I didn't like it as much as I thought it would. Mainly, I didn't understand why the chicken was shredded and not marinated. When I tried the chicken without any of the sauces, I found that it was slightly dry and lacked any distinct taste. Also, I had a huge problem with the sauces. Although they are well made and packed with flavor, the only way to dull the heat of the harissa is to put more yogurt sauce on the rice. I feel that the intrinsic, savory flavor of the chicken and the rice was completely overwhelmed by the sauces without any acid or fresh flavor for contrast. However, I do have to give kudos to one truly spectacular component at 53rd and 6th is the rice - I don't think it could possibly be more fluffy or well seasoned. Overall, although 53rd and 6th is very tasty, it definitely leaves me wanting for more.
It's awesome to see a line that long at 2 am...just wonderful. The line goes fairly fast, so don't get intimidated. There's two carts, but the other is just used for pumping out gyro/chicken meat more efficiently. The guy in front of me got 15 combo platters lol...I just got one to share with the wife. After putting a good even coverage of the white and red sauce, ?my wife and I devoured the the platter in maybe 7 minutes. It would have been faster, but the fire coming out my mouth from the red sauce slowed me down. Cheap, delicious, filling...Just the perfect thing to eat after a night of drinking. Sobers you right up! I miss it so much...I think about this food more than my mom...is that bad?
There's nothing really to be said other than "awesome." I've waited on line, be it a 10 minute wait or over an hour wait in freezing cold or blazing hot weather. Drunk or sober, 53rd and 6th Halal never disappoints.
Like most NYC residents, I am no stranger to the ubiquitous Halal Food stands, and "Halal Guys" at 53rd and 6th is heralded by most people to be the absolute best in the city. Unfortunately, most people are wrong. I heard of Halal Guys through a friend with good judgement and have tried it no less than three times. I have been disappointed severely each and every time, but keep going back because I wanted to be fair in my review. Each time, I got the combination platter with gyro, chicken, pita, iceberg lettuce salad, and what I best describe as "orange rice". The gyro and chicken were terrible in quality, mostly because they were pre-made in large batches, piled high in the work area, and covered with pita bread, steaming into a tasteless soggy mess. Though the portions were generous, they don't even bother grilling it a little before they heap it onto the plate. The end result is gyro meat with the consistency of day-old meatloaf and chicken that tastes like it was boiled in water before it was served. The quality was exactly the same all three times I had it, and I will not be returning. To be fair, I believe that this cart used to be good when they grilled their meat for individual orders. This terrible quality is a direct result of them trying to deal with the hype and the perpetual line of dozens. I would implore anyone who had once rated this cart over 2 stars to pay another visit and see just how far it has fallen.
You know you got it bad when it's in the middle of the night, your bladder's about to burst, but you still find yourself waiting in line in for a chicken/lamb combo. ? Best late night food in town. ?I just wish they had more carts spread out around Manhattan. ?Drunk, sober, night, day, you really can't go wrong with this place. ?You get a ton of food for 6 bucks and more importantly, its dam good! Chicken/lamb combo is the way to go....haven't tried the veg option and prob never will, but I heard its that one is just ok.....
The basmati rice is a big part of the meal. Fluffy seasoned and tasty. The lamb and chicken is well seasoned and tasty too!! Take it easy on the white sauce though, too much and you'll feel the drag. ?Be sure to thank them in arabic by saying, "shukran, jazeelan saudiki".
I. Love. Chicken. And. Rice. I love it during the day, I love it in the evenings, I love it at midnight. White sauce? Yes. Spicy sauce? YES. I would recommend putting droplets in. I usually put 6 droplets. It is that spicy. For those who think it's hype, perhaps. I have had my share of chicken and rice carts, and these guys are just the biz. Be careful during the late hours, for the crowd can be rowdy. Patience, and you'll get your fix on.
Experience at 4PM: The line was pretty manageable...too late for lunch, and just before the post-work rush. ?Still waited about 10 minutes, though. ?I got the lamb/chicken combo, but the chicken was definitely better. ?Drizzle liberally with the white sauce. ?Is it yogurt? ?Is it ranch? ?Is it cocaine salsa? ?I don't know but it's amazing. ?The red sauce, on the other hand, is freaking inferno. Use with caution. Like, really, try a little dab first before you drizzle that ish all over your chicken. ?Overall, definitely great quality for the price. Experience at 4AM: Sgdfashkljasdfhhj THIS IS ksjdfhaskdj BEST EVAR!!11!!!1!!
I'm not telling you anything you shouldn't already know chicken and rice with white and red sauce only he best
Will the real famous chicken on rice halal cart please stand up? This place is one of my three favoritest halal carts in the city. But, I'm starting to get confused as to which corner is actually the famous chicken on rice. It used to be on the NW corner of 53rd and 6th and then another one across the street (NE) claimed that it was the best (and, I just assumed that they were brothers) because they had the yellow polo shirts that said "famous halal guys" and yellow take-out bags, and then another one down the block claimed to be the famous one...maybe they're cousins? Regardless, my fondest memory of eating here was after a night of drinking, and I woke up naked on my bed with a half eaten platter of delicious chicken on rice (with white sauce and BBQ sauce) sitting on the living room table. Now, how did that happen? In any case, makes a great late night snack/breakfast!
Ironically, in a city with a plethora of good eats, this is one of my favorite places (by places, I mean cart) to grab a bite to eat. ?They serve only a few items: chicken over rice, gyro over rice, and falafel over rice. ?The most popular item, as you've probably noted from other reviews, is their chicken over rice. ?You have two options for meat: chicken and beef. ?Being a greedy carnivore, I could not pick between the two and just opted for both. ?I was very happy with my decision. ?The meat is obviously halal and is chopped on the grilled. ?The rice is saffron-infused (it's yellow/orange). ?I found the rice to be extremely flavorful and this is coming from someone who is not big on rice (yes, an Asian who doesn't love rice). ?You are also given several pita triangles to accompany your rice, but in the future, I'd just opt for more rice. ?The final touch to this wonderful meal is sauce -- you get three options: yogurt-based white sauce (tzatziki-like), hot sauce, and a brown BBQ sauce (?). ?I added one part white sauce and one part hot sauce. ?Yummy! ?I would not recommend this ratio if you are intolerant of spicy foods; go easy on the hot sauce. ? There was not much of a wait, but I was there on a Thursday at 11:30 PM and it was raining. ?I hear lines can stretch down the street and around the corner. ?This is a great cart to grab food from after enjoying nightlife in the city. ?A heaping container of food is only $6. ?I will be back each time I visit NYC.
heaven on earth. in a cart. lol. best chicken on rice from a cart, i have ever eaten on benches in the sidewalk on cold, windy, humid, rainy, snowy, balmy days. whenever my husband (then fiance) visited new york, he wanted to go there every single evening! note: be wary of the hot sauce if you cant stand too spicy!
Food: 4.5 Service: 4 :) Chicken over rice White sauce & hot sauce :( The wait Random Note: * Put lots n lots white sauce & hot sauce * The hot sauce is very SPICY but YUMM
I cried the first time I had the lamb over rice here. Like tears flowing flowing, snot dripping, total mess of a person on the corner of 53rd & 6th. Embarrassing... Admittedly, it was because I laid on the hot sauce, but I could see people being reduced to joyous tears about the deliciousness that is the Halal platters made by the Halal Guys. I thought that this Halal cart was like every other Halal cart in the city. Boy was I wrong on so many levels and my taste buds got a double dose of joy and pain. Now, it used to be that there were impostor guys wearing yellow hoodies similar to the trademark ones worn by the Halal guys in order to trick you into order sub-par Halal food. However, it seems like the Real Halal Guys have colonized the whole block, with locations on the SW & SE corner of 53rd/6th and NW corner of 52nd/6th (at least when I went there last week). They all serve the same thing so find the one with the shortest line and have at it! If it's your first time, get the combo (chicken and lamb) platter ($6) to get the full Halal Guys experience. Eventually, you'll develop your preferences for lamb, chicken or both. In my opinion, the chicken is moist though rather bland in terms of seasoning while the lamb is more flavorful without the gaminess and moist unlike other carts in the city. You can find the sauces in bottles along side the carts. The white sauce is delicious and can be a savior when you've put on too much of the red sauce (not to be confused with the BBQ sauce). Lay on the white sauce and mix, eat and repeat. I have found that putting the red sauce to the side and dipping your fork into the sauce before you scoop up the rice and meat to eat lets you control how much red sauce you consume. It's surprising how little red sauce you actually need because this stuff is concentrated Hellfire... super potent stuff. They open in the evening and stay open until wee hours of the morning. The longest lines are usually at 1-2AMish when the drunk munchies start kicking in. For some reason, the Halal platter tastes 1000 better when you are drunk and hungry. Probably because you can ignore how many calories you are consuming and turn into a Halal-eating tornado. And after you consume that whole platter, you won't be hungry again until you are ready to go out again. Whether you share with a friend or have one to yourself, for the same everyday low price of $6, you can get one of the best Halal food in the city. Something you plan your day and/or night around. 5/5 Stars
LOVE the lamb over rice with white sauce...delicious. I waited in the snow for a hour for a plate...yum
Didn't feel like writing a review after more than 2800 reviews, but well, this is a legendary place, so deserves all the love! lol! Firstly, lets gets some facts out right away: - Its super cheap - $6 - its open very-very late at night(5 am) - Bigg portion - Has branches on 53rd & 7th and some other intersections as well now (check website) The sad things: - It is not what it used to be, the basic thing has become bland with the real magic being the hot sauce and the white sauce - A lot of other carts around the city have started flavoring their chicken, so they have much better taste now, but still can't match the magic sauce part. Makes me sad to realize that this cart can bested by others now..but its true. (And I won't write any reco's here cuz I still love this place)
If I could pay someone to cater a party, this would be the place. My friends and I dream about having a halal plate with that white sauce and hot sauce. Too bad we're in Southern California. Therefore, all we can do is dream. Hands down best Halal in NYC and worth the wait in the blistering cold. One night on our way back to the hotel, a homeless man asked for food. I felt guilty for not giving my halal plate, but man, its just that good! It was the night before we left to go back home and I wanted the taste of halal to remain on my palette. I didnt want to forget that flavor. Now when I have halal in Cali, NOTHING compares to the halal we had here. Call me crazy, but I would defnitely go back to NYC just to eat. *sigh*
This is the go to place for gyro / chicken and rice. White sauce makes this meal that much better. Cannot say enough how bomb this food is. Yeah there may be a line, its worth every minute. Others are confused to which cart. Its directly across from the Hilton and on the west side of 56th street.
I think I went to the right one but I'm not 100% sure since there were two carts on different corners of 53rd & 6th. Anyways, we went with the one that said "Halal Guys" although the line was a bit shorter. I think it was due to the construction going on. Lamb, chicken, and rice - cheap, not too greasy, and wonderful.
This place is THE BEST. ?Well..I shouldn't say "place" I should say "food cart". ?SO GOOD. ?These guys know how to make a good meal. ?For a very VERY low price, you can get yourself a good amount of rice, meat, and some pita bread slices. ?NEVER LEAVE WITHOUT PUTTING SOME OF THE WHITE SAUCE ON IT! ?The sauce completes it. ?I always drown my food in it. ?It's like heaven. ?I've actually been holding off on this review because thinking about it makes me salivate. ?The line is typically long and I guess I've been lucky because I've never stood in the line when it was long. ?But anyway, if you go and it's long, don't let that scare you away. ?These guys move fast.
Super super delicious! So glad I checked this place out. White sauce is good--though I wouldn't smother my chicken and rice with it since the chicken and rice is actually super yummy. The service is efficient and friendly--it's fun since they have a few men standing around directing foodie traffic. No lies on the hot sauce being hot. It was hard to enjoy breathing after a bite of it! And only $6. ?Portions are huge. I shared my tray--granted I wasn't starving when I went.
This is by far the BEST chicken and rice cart I've ever been to! I didn't understand why people would wait in such a long time for halal food, but this place made me a believer! Even though the line seems extremely long, the line moves very quickly because the Halal Guys are so efficient. I've never had to wait more then 30 minutes. I always get the chicken and lamb mix, cover it in white sauce and let me just say it is to die for. However, there are two downsides. One, it ruins all other halal places for me and two, I live in Maryland, so my craving for halal goes unanswered 99% of the time. But in all seriousness, I want it every time I'm in New York and considering how many other food paradises there are in the Big Apple, so this must be some good halal!
I don't get it. I got off the wrong stop so had to walk twenty blocks. As I did, I passed by a cart at the end of each one, and they didn't get it either. "Are you guys that famous cart..." I wanted to ask, but then remembered, if there's not a huge, winding line, it's not them. The look on their faces as I made my way down to 53rd Street... they could all tell, it wasn't for them. I finally found my way, got to the back of the line and waited. Is 50% of the excitement just hype? Guess we'll never know, because the other 50% is amazing food. It was pitch black and 2AM so I could not even tell what I was eating. I got to two/thirds of finishing it before I realized the orange stuff was actually rice and not cheese. I drowned all my food in their red and white sauce and it was pure magic. Then of course I had to go to the cart next door and get 3 cans of grape soda.
After two years of living in NYC, I never got around to the Halal Guys. Being a New Yorker and never having Halal is wrong. I righted that wrong, but I committed a crime in the process. The first time I went, I got Lamb over Rice and tried the Falafel from the yellow-shirt clad vendors of New York's Best. It was amazing, but what I didn't know at the time is that these weren't the original Halal guys. I went back for the Halal Guys soon after, and I can't say there was much of a difference. Except New York's Best makes better rice, and I preferred their larger slices of lamb. So I tried the Halal imposter and I liked it better. But both are awesome, and despite being a purist, I feel like you can't go wrong.
YUM. ?Douze it in white sauce! Be careful with the spicy! (I love spicy, but the chicken n' rice spicy is fire in a bottle). ?Barbecue sauce is okay. ?Most of all, get the $6 combo platter and try finishing it. ?MMMMMMMM.
Best thing I ate in NYC so far! I got the combo gyro and chicken...honestly I'm not even 100% this is the right halal cart for this review but I'm going off of the bag and the "we are different" photo I saw in the review that matched what I saw. There was another cart with a really long line but I remembered that picture. So good! I got extra white sauce too which helped after I had eaten the already generous portion given. When I went there was no lines too which was a major plus!
It's ironic that one of the most satisfying dish in NYC is a plate of lamb and beef from an obscure cart in the middle of the city next to a Hilton Hotel. ?There is always a line that fills as quickly as it dissipates at this site and the ebb and flow of customers lining up to have their fill of this deliciousness is mind-boggling. ?As a frequent customer, and one who has ventured into the city from New Jersey in the middle of the night or early morning just to grab a bite countless times, this writer can safely say every visit is worth it. This site is easy to notice and there is always a line of individuals waiting to place their orders. ?They offer a choice of three different meats (chicken, lamb, and beef or a combination of either three) with rice, side salad, and pita bread all for $6. ?Very inexpensive and very, very filling. ?The portion is enough to feed two or three individuals but save yourself the heartache and order one for each--it's simply that delicious. ?As for the sauce, it's their own secret blend. ?The best ratio is 5 tablespoon of white sauce, 3 tablespoon of BBQ sauce, and two squirts (note that, two squirts) of hot sauce. ?A word of caution to spice fanatics. ?Although you may have tried hotter peppers, as I certainly have, putting a lot of hot sauce on the dish might mask its subtle flavors therefore go easy and you'll be rewarded. And to put this debate to rest, the other cart across the street and the one on the corner of 52nd is owned by the same owner. ?There is no difference between any of the three. ?Check that--the only difference is the line that seems to exist at the original one. ?If you haven't tried this place out yet, it's time to join the masses and experience what you have been missing.
I think the 2124 reviews before me explains it ALL. Hahaha! It's delicious.. I had a pact with my dad that I'd never eat cart food. I broke it because of the Halal Guys. I crave it every other week. So, the sum up: - $6 Chicken and Rice includes chicken, rice, lettuce, and pita! (optional white sauce &hot sauce) Sometimes, if you're unlucky, you'll get dried up portions. But it's highly unlikely after 7:30PM because by then, it gets pretty busy and it's hard to go wrong. The only thing I don't quite understand is the Halal Guys' afternoon shifts.. Apparently, the brother of 7:30PM 53rd&6th Halal Cart is running it but.. I'm not too sure. Chicken-- 4.5: It's shredded nicely. It would be perfect if it was evenly shredded though. Haha Rice-- 4.5: It's sort of tasteless BUT it goes perfectly with the whole dish. Lettuce-- 5: Fresh all the time (at least the ones that they gave me) Pita-- 5: I LOVE THE PITA. It's perfect with the white sauce and red sauce. White Sauce-- 5:Heavenly! It's probably really unhealthy BUT it's delicious and that's what my insides care about. It's... really different from other Halal carts. It tastes less bitter and is perfect for my taste buds. However, if you leave the white sauce out for a while, it becomes transparent and funky looking. So consume it when it's in its normal color. Haha Red Sauce-- 5:This will make you suffer from heat if you overdose. Their hot sauce is REALLY... spicy and hot. They claim that they're "different." I agree, they're REALLY different compared to other Halal carts.. IN A GOOD WAY! Overall, my several experiences at this area's Halal cart WAS GRRRREAT!
Okay first of all I would like to start off by saying that people have a big misconception about what's going on on the corners surrounding the 53rd and 6th Cart. ?The line goes wayyyy down the block for this guy, but no one ever seems to notice that there's this little guy with a big gray container that takes all the meat from that 1 cart that everyone seems to favor and delivers it over to the other carts whose line might I add is like half the size. The food is the same people! ?Trust me. ?Just wait on the shorter line. Now back to the food. ?Ahhh the perfect meal to satisfy my late night craving. ?I always get the lamb platter (lamb over rice with lettuce and cut up pitas) and I drench it in that amazing white sauce whatever it is I don't care it tastes awesome. The meat has a nice touch of spice to it and I like to add 1 drop of the spicy sauce (and I mean 1 drop that ish is spicy). ?I saw this poor girl on her first time squeezing that red sauce all over her platter and then as I watched her eat it she became redder and redder until she had to throw it all out =( Stay away from the chicken it's just boring and dry.
This place is awesome, The lamb over Salad is a great choice for dieters, or Chicken.. (imo lamb taste better). Cheap Great Food! Cant Beat it.!
DELICIOUS. CHEAP. FAST. WHITE SAUCE. what more can a girl ask for?
The legend. Combo platter, hot sauce and white sauce. Long lines but part of the kitch.
I went here with my boyfriend for some falafel after attending free Fridays at MoMA. The line was long, but we only waited in it for 15-20 minutes, so I'm not complaining. There was plenty of seating on the side of the street despite all of the people as well. However, the food... I expected a lot better because of all the hype. Ok, so falafel isn't their main dish and everyone I saw had ordered a gyro or chicken platter, but the falafels were undercooked and not as tasty as Mamoun's, Falafel on Broadway, or Moaz. My boyfriend ordered the gyro platter and he said it was pretty good, but not as fresh as other places because they have to cut it up in advance because they have to serve so many customers quickly. The sauce also wasn't as good as Mamoun's but did induce a hiccuping fit, which good falafel sauce always does. In conclusion, I can say I've had had it, but I don't think I'll have it again.
After all the hype we finally made it to the Halal guys on 53rd and 6th st at 300a. LOL Can you imagine there was a line at this time???? Out of all the food carts in the city of New York this was the most popular one to go too. Within 10mins of waiting our food was ready to go... What did we order? Ground lamb/chicken, a small amount of lettuce and a few slices of oiled up pita bread. For flavor lots of oregano and a subtle taste of what I believe was coriander and cumin. Ask for a little hot sauce and unless you can handle serious spice, you may find your mouth in flame long after. My friend put hot sauce on the pita and slapped it on my lips and they began to burn wahhhhh yes she thought it was funny. LOL ?Was the Halal cart all that? UHHHH YEAH!!!! PS. Watch out for many imposter's of the Halal cart in NYC, because there is only one true cart and that's located midtown on 53rd and 6th.
I have never purchased street food. ?Actually before eating here the thought of purchasing street food made my stomach ball up. Now that I have had a meal from this lovey Halal Cart - my opinion has changed. I waited in line for a while but it was worth it. ?They're very efficient and friendly. I had the lamb with the white sauce. ?The guy behind me advised me against the hot sauce. This was a cheap yummy lunch. ? I'll definitely go back.
I've never had Halal food before so I didn't have any expectations.. DAMN this place was amaaaazing! My friend and I were recommended to eat here, and told us the line isn't such a big deal because it would be good. We were also told this is the legit cart, not like those other carts that call themselves Halal guys or w/e Well while waiting in line we were talking to the person in front of us who's a regular at this Halal cart. We were told to get the white sauce and do very little of the red sauce because it can be spicy. We ordered the lamb & chicken combo and went to the side to get the sauces. I made sure we got shit loads of white sauce.. mm mmm! My friend on the other hand ?made sure it was spicy because she loved spicy.. and boy it was spppppppicy! Haha. The white sauce is just undescribable and delicious.. I was more of a chicken person, the lamb was a little weird! You must try this cart.. soo good. Too bad I'm back in California. Craving this like crazy right now! Boohoo.
It's one block away from the Warwick Hotel where I was staying, so I walked past this cart a dozen times. There are always a line 12 people deep waiting to order. ?Plus, folks who already got their orders were sitting around eating their meals. The crowd was the first thing to draw me in. ?This many people can't be wrong. ?Then there's the wonderful aroma. ?I pulled out Yelp, and the ratings gave me the confidence to try. I got the chicken sandwich (chicken in a wrap), and it was to die for. Such great flavor. ?Such fun sitting on the side of the street eating dinner. ?The meat was so good and that sauce was amazing. There are other stands around but only this one seems to have the crowd. ? And to the other reviewer who thought all the patrons are tourists. I can tell you that they were not the day I ate there. ?In fact, only a quarter of them seemed to be, and they stumbled were also lured in by the crowd. ?The rest were office workers in suits, some NYPD, construction workers, and two Paris Hilton types rolling with their dogs in these stroller-looking contraptions.
Very good food cheap and very tasty
As good as it gets!
OH MY GOD! ?Beware of the sauce. ?When they say spicy, they mean SPICY! ? ?I'm going to leave this review short and straight to the point, this is the only halal cart in NYC city worth going to. ?Yes, the line is SUPER long and there are other carts nearby with shorter lines. ?If you want to be a dummy, by all means, go to the other carts to avoid the line. ?You can lie to yourself and believe that they all taste the same. ?Well they don't, sorry to break it to you. ?That's almost like saying, "all Asians are the same." ? I will be back. ?This time, however, I will not drown the my plate with extra sauce. ?I had to drink 2 bottles of water and I was still dying.
THERE'S NO MEAT LIKE STREET MEAT!! Once you get past the part that the carts do not get food inspection grades like resturants get and may not be the most sanitary in the world, you get to enjoy one of the best meals you can get in NYC. CHICKEN/LAMB over rice and salad. If you live in ny you probably have tried other carts but nothing else even comes close to the halal guys of 53rd and 6th. They have extremely thin sliced pieces of meat that make it taste completely diffrent compared to every one else. The white sauce is a must, just be careful with the red hot sauce or your mouth ?with melt off(this is coming from a spice/hotsauce lover) TIP: try the guy accross the avenue or on 52 or 51st and 6th same company they have the same banner and clothing!!
This cart was right outside our hotel and there was a long line late at night. So I looked up all the rave reviews and we had to give it a try. ?Neither of us had ever heard of this food. ?I had chicken and rice, my husband the lamb/chicken combo. ?It was delicious! ?The white sauce is the ticket and the hot sauce is indeed hot. This is a large portion for cheap, and the line moves quickly. ?I'm sure its best eaten right away, that's what we did. ? I did not find it dry. ?But I know I'll be craving another helping for the next year before we get back to NYC!
Its amazing when you're wasted, & pretty good if your not. ?Careful, the hot sauce is HOTTT. You'll def know which spot is which just by the long line every fri sat night. Overall, its def solid street meat but wouldn't travel all over Manhatten if i wasn't in the area. For the price of 6 bucks def will fill you up, i suggest getting the combo platter. ?Lamb is legit. Def worth checking out if in the area, but wouldn't go crazy for it.
LOVE food carts. ?Whenever I see a cart with a line half way down the block, you know it has to be good. ? Although I was a tourist, my friend who lives in the city kept raving about the famous Halal Guys...so I had to try it! The guys are efficient with the orders, so the line goes by fairly quickly. ?We ended taking our food back to my friends place, but on the way there, I saw tons of people sitting on side and enjoying their food. The food was exceptionally good! ?We indulged in the mixed plate of lamb and chicken over rice. ?Slathered some white sauce over the plate and called it a night! ?I'm still craving it...wished I grabbed another plate before I left.
best meal to come to after a plane ride. ?my mouth is watering right now thinking about the perfectly cooked chicken and the mix of the white and hot sauce. yummy!!!!
First night back in New York and drunk, where to? 53rd and 6th! Chicken and rice plate! ?Pour it up with some white saaucee! ?Put a few drops of the red hot sauce on that sucker and you're GOOD TO GO! ?I really wish more drunken nights could end with some chicken and rice from this cart but alas... that would be a 1,552 mile trip that well, WOULD BE SO WORTH IT!! I really don't know what else to tell you that hasn't already been said. ?Thank you Halal Cart!
Been here countless times, hammered. Chicken rice must be great but I can never get myself to order anything but lamb and rice with extra red sauce. Damn I want some now
First and foremost, I would like to say for $6 and the AMOUNT of food you get is truly amazing. I would not say its the BEST quality/taste of chicken, rice, and/or lamb. Only reason why I'm giving it a 4 star and not a 3 star is because of QUANTITY. Lets be honest, half of us that go there is usually late night after a party. Is the line worth the wait? Hell YEAH when you're drunk! LOL White sauce... best tasting white sauce? I dont think so. Is it good? OH YEAH. But I'm sure if I go down the next street and order a combo, I would be satisfy as well.
I will keep this review short. This place is great. Long line, but worth it. Lamb over rice smothered in white sauce is the best. I love stopping here on lunch.
Geez louise, who does the PR for this guy? Not saying the food isn't great, it's just as good and tastes the same like all the other million Halal food carts in NYC. I can't really hate on 53rd and 6th Halal Cart, anytime I'm with my ex-boyfriend and we have a friend from out of town, this is where we take them. Gives us a chance to mingle with all the other drunk people after a late night at the bars. The chicken and rice is definitely satisfying for any drunkard. If you really want to get to know real NYC street food, check out the King of Falafel out in Queens, who won the Vendy Cup and the People's Choice Award.
I got in line for this place 20 mins before it opened, and there still was a decent line. Definitely in demand, this cart hits almost tourist spot status. Love the food, as it was recommended by a friend and now I can say I've had it. Great price and portions. Would I go again? Without the line yes for sure, with it.... hmm I'll think about it first. Warning: WATCH OUT FOR THE HOT SAUCE. IT IS NO JOKE!
Thanks for the great recommendation Mr Yelp ;) Being extreamly jetlagged, this was the best option to have my supper/breakfast at 3am...!! PLUS the food is super yummy~ (Need to becareful of the hot sauce, a little goes a loong way) p.s There's about 3 stores on the same corner (53th and 6th) safest bet is to go to the one with the longest line... But it might all be the same... im not sure.
Dangerously good. Just go and ask for the mix. It's a platter of just.. Everything. And it's all about the white sauce (you can grab a handful to go too).. Just a couple tiny squirts of the hot sauce though! I have to pass this everyday and the smell of it just makes me want it.. Everyday. Super filling and good bang for your buck. Great drunk food. Once my friends and I had a cab driver take us there before he dropped us off at home. He waived the cab fee if we brought him back a platter!
There is no such thing as bad halal food, but this place is certainly not the best. ?The lamb quality is not that good, and your food is not freshly prepared, it is just sitting there, and they scoop it once you order. That being said, their hot sauce is NO JOKE. ?Beware... **The best halal cart I have found is the trailer at NW corner of 46 and 6, next to the newspaper stand.**
It was our first night in NYC. After watching my beloved Sharks lose to the Blues in a playoff game on TV at a local bar/pub/drinking hole/restaurant/whatever, we were hungry. It was late at night. Okay, it was "only" 1:30am. But going by California standards, that was late. However, it was "only" 10:30pm back home and it felt like 10:30pm. Okay, enough with all this time talk. We knew what we wanted to eat: Halal Guys. But wait a minute...we saw like 50 "Halal Guys" food carts within a 5 block radius. They're all the same, aren't they? Apparently not. My friend Yelp'd them and this Halal cart on 53rd St. and 6th Ave. came up on top. Great, it was only a few blocks away from where we were at the time and where our hotel was located. There wasn't a long line when we arrived. Like I said, it was "late." Mixed chicken and gyro over rice, please! It was only $6. Best bang for the buck! I saw there were two sauces, one red and one white. Since I'm not a huge fan of any white sauces or dressings (don't ask why), I chose the red sauce. I did not...I repeat...DID NOT know how spicy the red sauce was. I did not try it before I drizzled it all over my food. I would learn to regret that decision. We took our food back to the hotel to enjoy. After my first bite, I immediately felt the burning sensation in my mouth. In Ralph Wiggum's words, "It tastes like burning!" However, I kept munching along at the food because I was, in Tyrese Gibson's words in the movie 2 Fast 2 Furious, "hongry!" I don't think I even ate half of my food before I no longer could stand the intense heat from the red sauce. I put it in our hotel's refrigerator to finish up the next day. The next morning...well, you know how hot and intense the food went inside? The same thing happened on its way out. Sorry for the graphic nature of that description, but I only speak the truth (when I want to). Later that night, I tried finishing the leftovers, but I didn't because the heat was still there. It was too much torture! And guess what happened again the next morning? Yep. So what's the lesson here? Don't put so much red sauce on your food! A few days later, we got some more food from here. This time, I refrained from putting any sauces on my food. It was a much more enjoyable eating experience for both my mouth and my...you know what. If you're visiting NYC, you must go here. Great food for a great price!
It's 7pm on a Friday night and this is what my friend texts me Friend: What are you doing right now? Me: Getting chicken and rice Friend: Wtf. That's drunk food. U drunk??! Me: Bitch, it's not drunk food, it's GOOD food I'm sure 2000 people have already said everything I've wanted to say. This place is so good we ordered 6 plates and flew it back to LA. Oh wut, HALAH!
If it don't say "The Halal Guys" and it ain't at the very end of the block, you need to keep on walking because impostors are lurking mid block. The Halal Guys make the best gyro and chicken mix on rice plate you'll ever taste! Make sure you are at the right cart!
With over 2600 reviews, this place certainly isn't begging for an additional endorsement from little old me. So this is for my DC Yelper friends back home who have somehow overlooked this little food cart on their trips to the Big Apple. I was lured here by NY friends who kept raving about the addictive chicken and rice. Be warned, the food here induces somewhat of a delayed reaction. - Pre-meal thoughts: Sure, I'll try it, but c'mon, how good could it be? - First impression upon eating: Sure it's good, and a great deal for a mountain of food for $6, but it's no big deal. Totally overrated. - Next morning: OMG, what the heck do they put in that thing?? It's barely been seven hours and I'm already itching to go back!! They've expanded their operations to (I think) four carts. The original location still only opens from 7pm-4am, but, as I understand it, they've scoped out adjacent corners where they operate during the day. ?No more super long lines! The "6th Ave & 53rd Street" t-shirt marks the spot.
I feel like I'm committing a crime against the street meat gods by not giving 5 stars! I'll give a 4 for the healthy portion. Honestly, it's good, but not mouth-watering delicious, unforgettable, or worth raving about. I occasionally take visiting friends here on a late night after bar hopping/clubbing though, since it really is a New York experience. Atmosphere: You'll recognize the guys in bright yellow shirts, billowing smoke coming out from the stand, and always, always- the huge snake of a line that winds down the block. You'll see drunk guys, tipsy girls wobbling around in heels (and freezing in their club dresses, if it's winter), and sober sleepy people with the munchies. Cost: Cheap! $6 for a generous portion that you'll probably finish after the wait. Service: These guys go quick once a new batch of meat finishes cooking. You might wait 15-20 minutes on that crazy line, but have your $ ready once they start passing them out like a well-oiled assembly line! Once you get your platter, you walk around to the side of the stand, squeeze on your choice of sauces from slippery, oily bottles, and then park your butt somewhere to eat on the corner. Food: I've only had the lamb. You get the meat over rice, salad, and 2 slices of pita bread. They chop up the meat into small pieces. It's flavorful and not dry. The white sauce is yummy; a FEW drops of hot sauce does the trick. Beware: I had a friend who drenched his plate in hot sauce. He turned really red in the face and coughed very badly after two bites! So, definitely worth trying and it's fun to do after partying. Who doesn't get the munchies at 3am? For street meat though, I prefer Rafiqi's!
Don't get the reviews on this place. ?Must be tourists? ?The meat is crap; ?the cheap dark meat and skin parts that taste awful. ?They also chop it up really fine so you can't tell what it is. ?The cart and surroundings are ?dirty, litter all over the place and people are grabbing the sauce bottles, pouring it on their half eaten platters.....YUCK. I don't like this place. ?Was excited to try it due to all the reviews. ?There is much better halal food in NYC. ?Skip it.
went to this place late at night a few years ago, and i remember it being pretty damn good. went back again to try the chicken plate, and this time it was just ok. the red and white sauces definitely add to the flavor, but overall the plate was just ok to me.
A tad overrated, didn't think it was anything special and I haven't craved it once since I tried it (yeah, I had the white sauce too). ?I did get my meal for free and got a free reusable grocery bag though, definitely no complaints about that!
yes. yes. yes. clap. clap. clap. halal. halal. halal.
I always thought that chicken and rice was the same everywhere in this city, but I was wrong. It's very difficult to screw up chicken and rice but it's just as difficult to perfect it and perfect it these guys have. The rice is flavorful and has that nice saffron color. The chicken and lamb are very juicy. The white sauce is cool and tangy. Some say it's just watered down ranch but my taste buds tell me otherwise. The real halal guys use the yellow bags, wear yellow shirts, and their rice is much more yellow. Beware of imitators during the day. They're just not the same.
There isn't much more I can say that hasn't been said. Don't be intimidated by the line because it moves very fast. The food is very cheap ($6) and amazingly delicious, especially in the AM hours after a night of drinking or clubbing. Pro tip: fork up a measly extra buck and get extra pita. You'll thank me when that amazing white sauce soaks into the toasted pita. Be warned the hot sauce is EXTREMELY HOT.
I declare you as the KING OF HALAL carts of NEW YORK. Ever since moving to NYC, I've immediately fell in love with the ubiquitous Halal carts around the city and the super tasty and orgasmic (most of the time) chicken/lamb over rice that they serve at the most affordable price ever (cheaper than a Subway sandwich or Mickie D's). It's definitely one of the greatest options for lunch if you work in the city. But what this place sets apart from the rest is that their meat is shredded, they give you free slices of Pita, their White sauce is AMAZING, Hot sauce that is actually Fiery Hot and wimpy, and their portions are HUGE!!! I mean come on, a HUGE Lamb/Chicken over Rice and Slices of Pita to go with it for $6?? SHUT UP!!! Other Halal Carts around the city actually CHARGE you an extra $1 for Pita Slices you know...But this place, it comes with the combo!! ?It also makes it the BEST Late night grub after a night out drinking to feed your hungry souls. I have a HUGE appetite so their super large portion definitely served me right!! They definitely DO deserve the 5 stars!!
If chicken and lamb on rice with white sauce and hot sauce was healthy for you. ?I'd eat it for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Only reason I don't eat this for lunch every day is I work far from it and I am a little scared what that hot sauce does to your stomach. otherwise. ?I don't think any other halaal cart can stand up against this place.
Pros: extremely fiery chili sauce, generous portion with a wedge of warm pita bread. Cons: long wait Tip: ? 1. Go to whichever has the shortest line between the west and the east one. They are both run by the same, hence the same flavor. ? 2. The cart during the day is NOT the original one. The legit cart opens at 7 PM. ? 3. Get the lamb and chicken combo. Best of both worlds. Why not. ? 4. Look for the condiment container around the cart. Need more heat? More white sauce? They are all there. Hands-down THE best halal cart in Manhattan! ? I love their chicken & lamb combo with a dash of hot fiery chili sauce. Try ONE DROP first; even one drop goes a very LONG way. Mix it well with the white sauce and the chili sauce into the rice and the meats. Jesus, I am in heaven. Just the best fix after getting crunk with ur friends! :) What I love even more is the steamed pita bread wedge that comes with it. So soft and with the green salad, you can create your own tiny wrap! ;)
This place has the best "Halal Street Meat" in the cit This title obviously encompasses both PROS and CONS. On the positive side, the portions are hearty, the turnover is constant (the less time for the food to sit there, the better), and the staff is rather friendly. The meat is cooked to perfection (as perfect as street meat can be lol) and the rice perfectly absorbs the sauces (white sauce, hot sauce, bbq and/ or mustard) and the flavor of the chicken and/or "lamb". The price is also a selling point. Depending on how much you are willing to pay or actually have in your pocket after a long night of drinking or a rough morning at the office lol you can either pay $5 or $6 for a plate. The plates also included chopped pieces of pita bread that mix in perfectly. CONS: As with any form of street food, your stomach may not be entirely pleased with you after consuming this meal (especially when mixed with alochol) but overall I would definitely say that the satisfaction outweighs the mild regret. The lines for this place can be absurd especially on Th Fri and Sat nights after everyone leaves the bars for the mass exodus to 53rd and 6th avenue. I would recommend getting here early for lunch or at a reasonable hour if you're looking to stuff your face real quick. Oh yeah and one more thing, PLEASE DONT FIGHT ANYONE IN THE LINE WHEN YOU'RE HAMMERED AT 3 IN THE AM. IT'S JUST NOT WORTH IT lol.
One of my newest favorite things about New York that San Diego didn't have! The chicken, rice, and white sauce combo was amazing! They give you so much food here, you can seriously divide if up into 3 meals! This is the one place that foodies must check out in the city.
I braved the wait and got myself a falafel and rice plate. It was cold, I kept getting the steam from the cart in to my face, there were plenty of tourists who were around me that were obnoxious and asking me if I "was a real New Yorker who liked this stand"... No buddy I am on my lunch break and I just want some food. But alas, it was my turn to order, the guy was friendly enough for working at a cart, but I was more impressed with the efficiency and speed they all work in. I ordered falafel, rice, white sauce, hot sauce (extra hot sauce), and 5 or 6.00 and a 20 minute wait (not bad) later I was on my way. I got to my desk and opened it up, dug in, and it was in fact delicious, I suppose in a lot of ways it was better than other halal carts, but I don't know if it is enough for me to continue waiting in that line. I would say go here for sure, I would say I am probably going to go back, but I wouldn't shun your other favorite halal carts quite yet either.
Just how I remembered it moving away two years ago. They added another cart on NW corner of 52nd/6th and there was no line. The tourists to to the SW corner of 53rd/6th because there's always a huge line and they don't seem to understand that if the cart says Halal Guys, it is the same thing. Sucks for them. I had my usual lamb/chicken combo for $6. Nice to know the prices have never changed. It was as delicious and tasty as I remembered it and had leftovers for lunch the next day. Love love love.
YUM. One of the best food truck meals we've had. We got the combo plate (chicken/lamb with rice, lettuce, and pita) and finished everything even though we had Chinese for dinner only two hours earlier. For $7, very happy. Hot sauce SUPER HOT.
***i'm a recovering halal addict.. Ask anyone I know -_- I'm a fan of chicken halal... BUT This place has chopped up their chicken into tiny tiny pieces.... Like sloppy joe meat!!?!?! I like my chicken chunky. This makes me sad :( when my friends told me this place is the best.. Perhaps I had set my expectations too high. Very sad :( On the brighter side of things... Their white sauce is in cute tiny containers... And it is delicious (which can only mean it is soo unhealthy *tear) Halal guys lamb is tastier compared to their chicken. I think it's sort of overrated. I cant believe I have to wait 10-15 minutes on a long ass line 4AM. My opinion is only based on the chicken. If you don't put much white sauce, it's a bit bland. You have to seriously soak it in white sauce to be in heaven. I might as well smear the white sauce on everything I eat. Regardless it is halal and I will still eat it. If ppl drag me out in the middle of the night, I will still eat it. But I will cry a bit inside because minched meat makes me sad :(
Does this place need another review? Re-heated the morning after, and still awesome.
Delicious, delicious, delicious. And cheap! $6 for a HUUUGEEEE combo bowl that's good for at least 2, if not 3 people. $4 for a giant wrap. The white sauce is amazing mixed in the with the rice and meat. The red sauce is actually really spicy (coming from an Asian who loves spicy food). I definitely prefer the lamb over the chicken. There's 3-4 carts on the intersection, but we were able to find this cart easily as it was the only one with a line. It moves fairly quickly as well.
The chicken & ?rice at the 53rd and 6th cart is amazing! ? A friend of ours who lives in NJ and drives all the way out to NYC to pick up some of this goodness informed us of this gem! ? I love all the street foods that are found all over NYC - I found them to be a big part of the character and charm of the city. ? It was cool to see the breakfast carts roll out every morning then watch the selection of food progress into lunch and dinner. ? The 53rd and 6th cart is definitely top tier! ? ? We've been to NYC twice since discovering this food cart and I hope to be back again soon and eat up all that chicken and rice!
This place is awesome! It's good sober, drunk, and a great meal after the gym. I noticed the time listed on yelp says it's open from 7PM onwards but I did notice this cart open during the lunch hours. I'm not sure if it's just imagination but the food from the carts do taste fresher and better at night judging from my experience ordering it for lunch every now and then. But you can't lose here, it's a cheap, fulfilling, and manly meal filled with hordes of meat and awesome sauce. PS: Don't go crazy on the hot sauce, I'm a guy that can handle my spice but my god their hot sauce is potent
honestly the reason people love this place is because there is no readily available food after a long late night doing whatever. they are always here (at night) and serving up lines of hungry drunkards who will put anything in their mouth. also do notice that 99% of these hyped reviews are from out of towners that don't realize there are BETTER halal carts!!! i get it.. they dont have it there so this is the best and probably only cart they've ever had. walk a bit further.. come during the day and try kwik cart which is sooo much better and tastier on 45th and 6th...!
Lamb at 4 a.m. Yes! I need to know how to make that sauce. That is all.
Seriously Overrated ! This cart offers the same menu options as any other Halal Cart. Gyros, Meat over rice etc, so what makes this so different from the rest ?? I haven't tried the Gyros but I ordered the meat over rice. Compared to other carts they dice the chicken and meat and the rice is moist, mix it all together with all the sauce toppings and you get a really nice mouthful of meat rice and sauce in every bite. That's what's unique about this cart nothing special. Without the sauces it's just plain diced chicken and gyro on rice. I can't see what all the fuss is about but still it doesn't taste bad and it is fast food on a plate for 6 bucks so can't complain. You get what you pay for but I'm sure there are other Halal Carts that are just as good. They've probably been around for a really long time and are lucky that they have a loyal customer following hence the really long queue but for me the food doesn't justify it.
I love me some STREET MEAT! Wow, so many option in NYC, I had to go to my trusty Yelp app to help me chose which cart to head to. It did not steer me wrong. ? This cart had a line down the block. When we got up there, the smells coming from this place were fantastic. ?Not the typical smells you find in NYC, urine, garbage, dirt, disgusting. ?No, this was a heavenly scent of street meat. I got the combo with a falafel to go. ?I slathered it in the sauces before we headed to eat our little, cheap feast. WOWSERS! ?This was some of the best gyro I had ever had. ?I am talking blew away some of the Greektown places in Chicago. ?It was tender and spiced to perfection. ?The chicken was delicious. ?The sauces...well let me tell you...I LOVE spicy food. ?I absolutely adore it. ?This red sauce was SPICY and I loved it. ?The white sauce was a fantastic compliment to it as well. ?Honestly, I would almost say this was my best meal while I was in NYC. ?All for like $7??????? ?HELL YES! Go, check it out, enjoy the street meat.
first time having halal food got the rice combo came with chicken,lamb rice and pita bread the chicken and lamb really juicy and flavor, becareful with the red sauce its ?really really hot like fire put alot on my plate and could not finish it ?was really hot the white sauce is really good ?next time im going to come back to the halal cart for sure but next time im using more of the white sauce and less of the red sauce over all a good deal ?9 bucks for ?a combo plate ?and drink
It's 5 stars, but not solely for it's taste. It's my first trip in New York and anyone with access to yelp would be curious to the 4 and a half star halal cart nearing 3000 reviews. I never saw the infamous line I've heard so much about, but that may be due to my visits being after 11pm so I may have missed the rush hour. Even then, I noticed the halal carts within a block vicinity were from the same people. Smart. ? I had both the chicken and lamb over rice on different occasions. It was like a fat kid discovering brownies one day and ice cream on another. The lamb is lightly seasoned and moist as is the chicken and the lettuce gives it a slight freshness. Choosing between the two would be like choosing a favorite child, so I'll go with "I love them equally". What really threw this over the edge was their sauces. I read about it on the reviews, but you really can't understand these people's excitement until you try it yourself. The white sauce just mends everything together giving the dish the perfect amount of flavor and the pita bread just soaks it up like a sponge. Truly lives up to the hype. And that red sauce. Whoooo! That stuff has got a kick like a ?race horse on steroids. I love spicy foods and the heat coming from the small amount I put on put my scoville ego in check. EATER BEWARE OF THE HEAT. The portion is fairly large. Fills up a hefty guy like me. All of this for just 6 dollars. What a great deal! It was quick (disregarding the line), it was delicious, and it was filling. A powerful combination. Only downside I see is that it only opens at 7:30pm according to yelp, but what do I care! I'm a tourist! Open till 4am? Sounds like a drunk wanderer's dream. Considering my circumstances, this deserves full marks. Definitely not overrated. Great last New York meal.
Food: Absolutely amazing. They make really great food here. Order the lamb. Service: The guys work really hard to please the huge line of people. Know what you want when you get to the front. Ambience: It's a cart...go at an off time to get food quick and not wait for an hour.
I love the chicken and lamb combo with white and red sauce...just upset they aren't open all day. I would go breakfast, lunch, dinner, midnight snack...! you get the point. The line goes by quick so don't be intimidated by it. Food comes in a round aluminum case and lid, make sure to grab napkins because you'll have food all ova your face from inhaling halal
Strengths: - Food - ordered the combo of lamb and chicken, and it's addicting. ?It's chopped up for you, which is good so you can chew less and eat more. ? - Prince - you can't get a better steal than this. - Customer service - they don't say much, just place your order, and get out. - Sauce - I slather everything on my meal. - After effect - you will sleep well, unless you get a sore stomach from eating too fast. Weaknesses: - Seating - very limited to the platform with a lot of bird poop. - Sanitation - bring your own anti bacterial hand wipes because there is no place to wash you hands. - Messy - the bottles of yogurt and hot sauce can get you very messy, but it's so good. - Line - the line is always long, but worth the wait. - Restroom - good luck finding one. Opportunities: - Well established location. Threats: - King of Falafel & Shawarma on 30th St & Broadway.
Best best best.... Just always hv to wait in line but it's worth it.
Always great after a bar/club - late night snack! Great food - the "SPOT" to go when you can't think of what you can grab quick.
I am obsessed with this place!!!!!!! For 6$ you get a ?huge plate of rice and your choice of meat and it is delicious! I always add a bunch of white sauce and barbeque sauce and my meal is complete. ?During the summer and even during the winter there lines are always long but it is totally worth the wait. Their hot sauce is HOT! beware because one drop of this sauce and your mouth is on fire!
Cheap, quick and easy. Nothing fancy. Just consistent, good eats. You know what you're going to get when someone yells out "Lamb and rice" at the end of a night of socializing. The secret is in the sauce. I don't even think it's possible to enjoy this food without at least a little bit of the white goodness. And then of course the veteran's secret. A perfect way to initiate the naive. I know it's mean, but there's no way they can get mad at you after introducing them to the wonder that is the Halal Cart. Besides, we've all been there before anyway. PS I always go to "the other one." Same stuff, shorter lines.
dont get the triple spice
This is the real deal. After a night that probably raised our BAC to .29, we knew what we needed.... ?We had heard about this majestic place ever since we landed in NYC... "Bro you gotta get the chicken and rice... it will blow your mind.." ?It was time.. and yes.... my mind was BLOWN. The Famous Halal Guys are the ones that bring you such deliciousness on 53rd and 6th. ?Stay away from the imposters that look just like them aka New York's Best Halal Food. ?Both have similar yellow shirts and logos... but you can easily spot the difference. ?The Famous Halal Guys have yellow to-go ?bags, the imposters have white. ?The Famous Halal Guys also brand their shirts with "We are different". ?We got there around 2:12 a.m. and got in line. ?It would be around a 25 minute wait, but we didn't care... One whiff of the aroma coming from the cart and you're sold. ?Ordering is easy, you tell them what you want (which would be a combination aka chicken and gyro over rice), give them the cash, and 9 seconds later there's your food. ?Located near the side of the cart is the famous white sauce and hot sauce. ?Load up on the white sauce.... it's amazing. ?Be careful with the hot sauce thought, since it's extremely spicy. ?Mix everything up and enjoy.... This will be the best meal of your life. ?For 6 dollars and more than a pound of food.... this is one of NYC's biggest steals. I went two straight nights to get their combination. ?Only reason it wasn't 3 nights is because my plane left the next day.
- I think this is best eaten when your drunk or when your really really hungry. - Chicken's too dry and bland and is that really chicken? and why is precooked? - You have to put lots of sauce to get the taste right. - Overrated. - I can't believe this got tons of good reviews. is it because people says so? then the others will think it is when they eat? - Save your time and head a few blocks down to 49th and 6th and get some real fresh ? meat ?combo halal platter.
It's just not a trip to New York without stopping at The Halal Guys cart at 53rd and 6th. I start craving the lamb platter as soon as I know I'm headed to the city... oh, such tasty goodness! And - to get a full meal (more than I can eat) for $6... rad!
I've been to NY over a handful of times, and never had the rice here. ?Co-workers ain't down... or for other reasons but finally tried it this past St. Patricks and I don't think I can really say anything else about this place that others haven't, but really... it's beyond legit. ? It's the perfect place after a night out, and on a cold day when you get your order, you just want to dig into it when you see that steam coming off. ?With that first bite, you realized this is why you waited in line. $6. Make sure not to add to much white sauce or else it'll become this gooey heap. ?Watch out for the red sauce... it is fawking spicy. ?Moderation is your best friend here! ?Our friend definitely learned that the hard way and couldn't fall asleep after eating his since his tongue was on fireeeee :P
I sometimes travel out to the city with my friends just to pick up some 53rd and 6th Halal. There's always a long long line but the food is always worth the wait. The chicken and lamb is superb; not dried out and moist over a bed of rice with pita bread on the side. With some white sauce and a touch of hot sauce on top, its a god send during those cold nights in the city. Disregard their abrupt and short behavior; they want the line moving and as such they act like an assembly line; constantly moving forward to ensure a short wait time for those hungry NYers and tourists alike. I would like to note that after this place won the best Halal food award a few years back, tons of carts have popped up all across 53rd and 6th complete with the same yellow shirt and same menu with slight differences and like sheep, people follow and line up to any old halal stand. From my own experience, I found that the true 53rd and 6th Halal cart opens at 7 as the imitators clear out of their spot next to the museum and the line begins to form. Watch for the real stand; dont let the imitators fool you.
Friends come from far and wide and bee-line to this little cart to enjoy cheap NYC eats. I don't blame them! The flavor recall I am having now as I think back on their lamb over rice or gyro makes me drool. Their hot sauce is amazing and a real kicker. So if you don't know what you're up against, just ask for it on the side. These guys are pretty nice. Once I went thinking it was five dollars instead of six and they told me I can just give them the extra dollar next time I go. Can't wait to go again!
Delicious, cheap NY street grub. Easy to find, however, there are similar carts around it so don't get confused! The later at night, the longer the line. Order a mix with white sauce on the side. Lamb, chicken, rice, lettuce, and warm pita. Nothing better than that. You haven't experienced unless you've had it.
Can't beat the goodness of meat + rice + white/red sauce!!! Must-have if you're visiting the city Must-have if you're craving a late (late) night meal Holy f*#k, just thinking about it makes me wanna go there now!
Mmmm, had it again today after a long hiatus. It's as good as ever, and still only $6 for the combo on rice. Do work, fellas.
Can't beat the chicken and rice!
Mmmm combo over rice. Many drunken nights have led me to this halal cart. But even when I'm intoxicated, I NEVER underestimate the hot sauce. That ish is spicy. But the white sauce? PILE IT ON! I heard that the cart across the street is owned by the same people. Although it has shorter lines, I still haven't tried/risked it. Though I'm sure even if it wasn't, I won't be able to tell the difference. Pretty much inhaling my plate most of the time...and the only time I take a break is to get some more white sauce. A couple of my friends prefer barbecue sauce instead of the white sauce. Though I've never tried it, they rave about it. ...and is it just me or does the line go by waaaaaaay faster when you're drunk?
Would not have tried this without first hearing the glowing recommendations from a trusted friend-of-a-friend who recently graduated from NYU. ?These halal carts are all over the city, but this particular cart is so famous that there are several copycat carts in the same area. Tried their chicken and rice plate which was absolutely delicious. ?Wished they gave more of that white (ranch dressing?) sauce; couldn't get enough of it! ?I'm not a hot sauce fan, so mine remained untouched. Wish they had this stuff back home!
Super delish, a bit on the greasy side (but not as much as some other places). Tons of food for cheap. Got the combo with white sauce (can't handle the heat). I like the pieces of pita they throw in there. All-in-all some no frills food to fill ya up on the cheap.
There is no beating this value, unless you're a dumbass and put on too much of the red sauce. ?This place is so good, I had to come here two nights in a row when visiting. ?The perfect after-drinking end-the-night type of drunk munchies food that is heavy, greasy, and overly seasoned to make sure your taste buds still get a kick even when you're drunk and ready to pass out. ?Not seasoned enough? ?Thats okay, just put some more of that white sauce on there; in fact, douse your rice, chicken, and pita in it. ?For the love of god though, be careful with the red sauce. ?No kidding when the guy told me to watch out after seeing me cover my plate with it. ?Ring of fire the next morning if you know what I mean. Anyways, here is my no BS assessment: - ?6 bucks; can't beat this value - ?Enough to share for two - ?Open late - ?Central location Try it once if you're in the area; you won't regret it.
The 53rd and 6th Halal cart is one of the top two places I wanted to eat at when I was visiting New York the second, Japadog. I made my way to the 53rd and 6th Halal cart one day around lunch time and of course the line was a bit long, but the wait was fast. ?We were in line for about 10 or 15 minutes. When I got there I ordered the lamb and chicken combo with no hot sauce. ?I don't really eat spicy things much. ? Anyway, both meats were great, and their rice was soft and buttery. ?I liked it! ?Between the two, I liked their lamb more and would probably order just lamb the next time I go. ?Even when I couldn't finish the dish and had it a few hours later the lamb was still good and the chicken was so so. Now that I've checked this cart off my list, I will try the other carts nearby to see if they are the same, or if this cart is better. :) ?But definitely try this place out! It's delicious!
What can I say about this place that hasn't already been said. Currently, there are 2 carts set up across from each other to handle the high demand. One cart opens during the day and evening, the second one opens only during the evenings. ?There's always a line (it goes by really quickly) every time I pass by this place and you can see why - $6 for a hefty plate of yummy goodness, you just can't beat it. The portions are enough for 2 people or one really hungry person. The white sauce does wonders and simply highlights this dish so don't be shy. Go ahead and smother it all over your food. Do, however, approach the red sauce with caution as it packs a mean punch.
Got the chicken & lamb with rice. Huge portions (equals 3 meals for me), for a cheap price. And it was the best I've ever tasted...Come here.
I'm spoiled because I used to work in this area and the first time I ate Halal food it was from here, and nothing has compared since. The long lines tell you what you need to know; it's quality food that's worth the wait. These guys prepare the food clean, prepare it well, and you get a nice piece of naan to go with your plate. Nobody else does that! They need to expand from just that one corner, because without them in my neighborhood I have to settle for the imitators!
This place has simple yet mindblowing food !!! Whether you are looking for some easy dinner or a late night after heavy drinking snack, this is the place to be. I always get a mixed lamb and chicken platter. The white sauce and the hot sauce ( EXTREMELY HOT YET AMAZINGLY DELICIOUS) is what puts a major twist in the flavor. PLEASE DO NOT USE A LOT OF HOT SAUCE IF YOU CAN NOT HANDLE HOT FOOD. EVEN A DROP OF THIS HOT SAUCE CAN BE VERY SPICY FOR SOME PEOPLE. FOOD IS AWESOME. One time as soon as i turned around after getting my platter some idiot walked past me and knocked over my platter before i could even taste it, the manager was EXTREMELY NICE and offered me another platter for free.
Is it bad that I worried about the halal food cart first thing when I saw all the hurricane Sandy mess on the news? It is? Oh well, I'm a terrible person. I went here while being a tourist and still think about the white sauce over chicken and lamb. Gigantic portions for dirt cheap. AND it's good. Sign me up! If these guys ever decide to become snowbirds and open another operation in Florida (-anywhere- in Florida) I would drive across the state for it.
Over 3,000 reviews, what's left to say? Chicken & Rice: Best drunk food ever!!!! Pour on that tzatziki and hot sauce (Caution: kinda strong if you can't hang with spicyness.) Always pipin' hot. Ready in a minute. Only $6!!!
Having tried all the good places I settle down to this one as the best! Good food. The white sauce is extreme. Quantity 5 star. Hands down the best halal cart in NYC!
I'm a new fan. ?Have gone to them twice now and will be back regularly. ?Everything they serve is delicious. ?Incredible flavors and quality meats.
My first job out of college was around the corner and I would eat here when I had to work late. ?There were no lines back then and most of their customers were cabbies. ?Went back the other night for the first time in years and waited on line in freezing cold for 20 minutes hoping the food would somewhat match their hype. ?It doesn't. ?The flavors are toned down for tourists who are ?now their main customers. ?Sadly, from what I had the other night, these guys are easily near bottom of my Halal food truck list.
For cart food it won't get much better after a night out in midtown. It's worth the visit, but do watch out for the hot sauce, normally I drown my food in hot sauce but this what even a bit much for me
how is that possible that of all the AMAZING restaurants in the city that i crave a street cart the most?! and the most often (at least 3-4 times a week. just being honest.) this food is crack. absolute crack. it doesn't have to be drunk food at all. you can eat it sober, sleeping, upside down, for breakfast/lunch/dinner/dessert/who cares! i could literally bathe myself in that white sauce, no really, i'm excited just thinking about it. don't be scared of putting a lot on, literally douse the entire platter and love it. however, BE CAREFUL of the hot sauce! it is soooooo good but a little bit goes a long way! the price definitely makes it that much more awesome because it's SO cheap ($6) for a TON of ridiculously delicious food. totally worth the wait, however long it may be, and the trek, from wherever you may be.
the carne asada fries of New York - a refreshing different take on post-drinking munchies. it disappears just as fast. note: people tell me that the secret white sauce is pretty much similar to a Del Taco sauce concoction. i disagree. it just confuses people and they end up getting the spicy red hot sauce instead. big mistake.
Still don't understand why people won't go to the third cart.... I asked the guys at the cart why there was no line at their cart, and they simply said, "that one was the original." ?Fine by me! ?I'd rather not wait in a long line for good quality food!
I had never heard of Halal food until I visited New York City. ?I have eaten at Greek places (gyros, etc). ?This food is very similiar, I'm not sure what makes it Halal. ?Almost every hot dog cart sells this stuff. ?I went to this cart because it was the most famous and best rated on Yelp. ?It was very good. ?Enormous amount of food for the price. ?I had the lamb/chicken combo plate. ?Didn't even come close to finishing it. ?Red sauce was very hot as everbody has stated. ?Came on a Friday night around 9pm. ?Line wasn't too bad. ?I can see why this place is popular.
Amazing. Couldn't have imagined that something so simple, like chicken over rice would be so good. I recommend getting the combo, as it comes with both the gyros and chicken. Beware of the nasty disease infested pigeons (ugliest pigeons I have ever laid eyes on) that will pace around you for leftovers while you are eating. Don't leave your food unattended! The two girls sitting next to us had this happen to them and the pigeons were stepping all over one of their purses and slipping on white sauce.
Fantabulous
this place is hard to miss on 53rd and 6th. The line basically covers the block. the particular we went, they were giving free food because some of their former employees have started a food cart right next to them. The same colors, same name, and the same logo. for justice sake, i wanted to support them. regardless of what happened between the other guys and these guys, i don't think that is the right way to find justice. their white sauce is amazing, but what is great is the hot sauce. do'nt be fooled by the little container...one is plenty enough for the entire thing. my date and i were under the impression tat we were boh getting free meals but they served one for free and charged the other. we were excited to get free food and were a little disappointed but we got half of our meal for free. :D
damn, new yorks answer to san diego's carne asada fries. I was wondering what the hype was about, so were sure to check this particular cart out. WOW, no joke, get the $6 combo plate, good to go, full and happy for the rest of the day.
With over 2600 reviews, it's already obvious that you must eat lunch at the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. There are actually two carts on opposite sides of 6th street. So if the line is too long at one of them just cross the street. Most likely the line will be equally long at each cart. Don't worry though-- these "Halal guys" in their yellow shirts are really efficient and won't make you wait in line very long. My favorite is the chicken and lamb/gyro over rice. Add some of that delicious white sauce and a much smaller serving of the red, hot sauce. It is hands down the best $6 meal in New York. Best of all, the portion is so generous that you can easily split a bowl between two. If you're visiting MoMA, be sure to fuel yourself up at the Halal cart first since it's right next to the museum.
Thank you fellow yelpers! ?So this is Street Meat. I am now a big fan. 6th Ave. had ?a street fair going on today, interesting but the booths seem to repete; grilled corn followed by t-shirts, soaps, cosmetics then Arepa followed by more t-shirts, soaps, pashminna scarves (what a bargain for $5), then Thai, followed by more t-shirts, etc...then Gyros, with a smattering of pierogies, mexican burritos, kebabs. ? None of these booths had a line. ?But boy did the Halal Cart have a line, it was at least 15 deept. Mind you it was about 5:00pm and the familar yellow shirted employees were at the south eastern corner of 53rd and 6th Avenue (Avenue of the Americas for those tourist). ?I thought the famous cart only came out at 7:00pm but this stand read "The Halal Guys." I didn't go across the street to look at the South West corner but someone else in line said they had walked by and found no one in line. It was good, I ordered the chicken and rice and doused it both red and white sauce. ?I can eat hot but the red sauce made my head tingle. Boy it was hot! ?All this for $6. ?This is allot of food for just $6.00. ?Well worth the walk.
Lamb over rice with white sauce, maybe there is a God... I love going here and I go whenever I can. The only thing that keeps me from coming back all the time is the calories. Long lines but trust me, it's worth the wait. This is my second favorite food stand in the city. Beware of their hot sauce, it's super spicy and my brother's tongue was numb for a good half an hour.
Can't say much that isnt said in the over 2000+ reviews but if you're visiting or a reg def have to try this place. For cheap eats its right up there with a plate of rice and your choice of gyro or chicken for about 6 bucks. The line starts early but they have two back up carts on that block to service everyone pretty quickly. I got the mix plate of chicken and gyro to try both out. Both were great. Moist and flavorful. Definitely listen to the other post and get the white sauce. There are no drinks at the cart but you can easily buy them at the other carts near there. Theres not a lot of seating around the carts maybe 1 or 2 islands so if you're with someone have them scout out seats while you buy, unless you're taking it to-go
Lamb over rice with extra white and hot sauce!!! ?This has got to be the best halal food in NYC!! ?The line's about a block or 2 long and people patiently wait and some would eat their food right there and then! ?I love their food so much that if given the chance, I would eat it every effin day!! ?To top it all off, its only $6!! ?You can't really beat that, its cheap and delicious!! =)
Two years ago when I interned in New York, I got some chicken and rice from a random cart near Penn Station and thought "I don't know what all the hype is about". Well, apparently I was at the wrong cart. "NO! You need to go to THE cart on 53rd & 6th with the Halal Guys" my friends explained. So this trip to NYC, I made sure to go 1) to the right cart and 2) late at night. Apparently I'm missing one key ingredient in making sure this place gets a 5 star rating and that's being drunk. Since I was clearly sober, I thought this was a decent meal to be shared with friends late at night. However, I wasn't raving about it afterwards. I wouldn't order a whole plate for myself since this thing probably has over 2000 calories especially with two containers of white sauce (that must be added for optimal flavor). The rice and pita were also a tad bit on the dry side. It was definitely better than the other cart's chicken and rice, but I still don't know what all the hype is about.
I've only had Halal three times: 1 in Baltimore (first standard), 2nd from some random Halal cart in Times Square (which was comparable to the first one), and then this place. This place is LEGEN.....wait for it................................unbelievably DARY!!!!!! Not only was it incredibly delicious, they give you so much! and only $6!!! I only tried the Chicken on Rice, but it was so fresh and there was a line when we got there, so we just HAD to try it. They constantly cook, so when you get to the front, you just say what you want, pay, and they already have it set out for you. On the side, you add your own sauces and the amount you want. I went for the white sauce and the BBQ (so sweet!) and was amazinnnnngggg! My boyfriend (this was his first time too) didn't realize the hot sauce was ridiculously hot and piled it all over his share. Unfortunately, the friend we were with forgot to mention it until it was too late. He still liked it, but ended up having to drink so much water. They have the signature
I use Yelp ?all the time to search for restaurants nearby, read real people reviews, and look at photos. Possibly the most reviewed places of all time on this popular website is 53rd & 6th Halal Cart, also known as Halal Guys. To date, the food cart in New York City has a whopping 2,934 reviews! Halal Guys is a New York City landmark. It is even listed as one of the top spots you must visit when in the city. In a city where the price of Big Mac is more expensive than most places, Halal Guys caters to those who are looking for quick and cheap, yet filling, meal on-the-go. When I arrived at the corner of 53rd and 6th during lunch time, the line extended for about a block. Nonetheless, the workers adorned in bright yellow shirts were super efficient so the line moved really fast. When you approach the front of the line, the guy asks you, "Chicken, Lamb, or Combo?" ($6) Since it was my first time, I decided to try the combo. You can also get falafel if you oppose meat. The Halal guys fill the round silver tin with orange Spanish rice (food coloring?), a bed of iceberg lettuce, and chicken & ground lamb. He also put three pieces of warm pita. I decided to get the signature "red sauce" and "white sauce" on the side with a little bit of BBQ sauce. When I opened the lid, the smell was pungent. MSG overload? I couldn't believe how much food they packed in that tin. I scooped some rice and bit into the minced lamb, which just tasted like mushed meatball. The chicken wasn't much better because it was really overcooked and dry. The pita had sprinkles of seasoning, and I appreciated that it was warm. I only had about a quarter of the meal because my stomach was filling a bit queasy. I am not used to food with such strong artificial flavors. I guess having the most reviews on Yelp doesn't mean that the place is delicious.
The infamous chicken and rice cart definitely did not disappoint me. ?For $6, it was enough to feed my fiancee and I in all our post-drinking glory. ?Get the mixed meat bowl, which consists of gyro and chicken with rice/pita, squeeze on some of that "white" sauce (or as I call it halal ranch sauce), go easy on the hot sauce (I felt it the next morning), and enjoy yourself on the sidewalk with a cheap and delicious meal. It still amazes me how $6 manages to go so far nowadays! 4 stars!
Long over due review. Every time I come to New York I visit this cart. Since my first visit they have expanded to 3 carts. This past 5 day visit we came to the Halal cart 3 separate times. Twice after the giants game and once after a night of drunken stupor. Not once have the chicken and rice let me down. So So So yums... Hot and steamy on a cold night this really hits the spot. We got lucky and didn't have to wait in the infamous long lines but at peak after clubbing and drinking hours be warned. ? Don't forget the white and super crazy hot sauce!
I have always seen the line at this cart on any given night, but never had the opportunity to try it. After a big lunch, the fiancee and I weren't really in the mood for dinner until later in the evening. Then the hunger it and there was only one thing I wanted. Halal. The line for this stuff should be twice as long around the clock. Had the chicken and gyro over rice. We got it to go and the fiancee had the audacity to question the amount of white sauce I loaded into our bag. Minutes later, she literally ate her words as she was dumping the last of the white sauce onto her meat and rice. The hot sauce is not to be trifled with. A little will do you good, unless you're a psychopath who likes to be chemically burned by your food. Then by all means, load up on it. For $6, this stuff is so delicious and so filling, that it would be hard to find a better value in the City.
Let's just keep it simple here. You don't need to read a review to tell you how AMAZING this dish will taste in your mouth. Just go, take out your cash, order chicken and rice with white sauce and hot sauce on the side and hand them your money. Then prepare to drench the rice and chicken in the sauce to your liking and consume. It's that easy and yes it's that delicious! SO good you will crave it the next day!!
This place is pretty awesome. ?One of the best foods I have had from a cart or truck, just behind the taco truck on Fruitvale Ave in Oakland. I got a gyro, which was delicious! Loaded up with the hot sauce, oh weee! Awesome. On top of that, the guy gave me a free soda! What a pal! I guess the only draw back was that there was a long line, although it seemed to move pretty quickly, but that could have been the drinking from before...
This place was EXCELLENT. I can't wait to go back. Worth the wait.
Always a good choice. Line moves quickly and they give you a ridiculous amount of food for only 6 bucks. Even if the rice can be a little over cooked sometimes.
Believe the hype. Do not fear the length of the line. These dudes mean business when dishing out your lamb/chicken combo plate. Get at least two white sauces. And the hot sauce is balls hot but incredible if you like spicy. ? Good any night of the week but on a cold winter night, in uncomfortable cute as hell booties, after a night of holiday party drinking and dancing, I say this was the perfect meal.
I first found out about this halal cart because a New Yorker referenced it when she wrote a review of a kebap place in Berlin, Germany. ?I loved that kebap place in Germany. ?So I researched the 56th and 3rd halal cart and bookmarked it if I was ever to go to NYC again. I really wanted to like this more and give it more stars but came out a bit disappointed. Food is cheap!! ?$6 for a big plate. ?Hubby and I shared a lamb and beef combo plate, that comes with rice, and lettuce on the bottom, topped with pita bread. ? They also give you that white sauce that everyone talks about. ?Sauce was good. ?Kinda like a mixture of mayonnaise and ranch sauce. ?But it made the plate more flavorful. Plate was ok. ?Perhaps we ate it at the wrong time of the year since it was freezing NYC cold and it made our plate cold. ?Made it difficult to enjoy the plate. ?I didn't taste much flavor of the lamb and beef and rice was a little dry. ? Had to dump a lot of the white sauce on it to get flavor. Didn't pour any red sauce since I read on yelp that it burns. Overall, just ok. ?I would try it again if I'm ever back in NYC. ?But this doesn't compare to the kebap place in Berlin. ?Now that was delicious.
THE one and only chicken & rice cart in NYC. Load up on the red sauce (but try not to pour the whole bottle over). And there, ladies and gentlemen, is your 2500th review. :)
I've walked by this cart a few times, and tended to think it couldn't be any different. But I always see a huge line. So we decided to try it. We waited about 30 minutes, and we finally got our combo platter. We only got one because we wanted to save room to try to other places. When we got our platter, it was amazingly good. Everything is well-seasoned, the sauce adds a kick with the spice, and the meats are tender. We devoured it and regretted that we didn't get two. Next time...
This is the only food place I will wait in line for!!!!! They must put some crack in it or something. Seriously. It's the best food truck in NY, possibly overrall and tops most restaurants. The site does not up to date, but it has vegetarian options. I love their falafel platter, which also comes with rice, bread and fresh red peppers. To die for!!!
A friend told me about 53rd street Halal madness and Yelp confirmed it for me prior to my visit. ?I was around the area and had a little less than and hour to kill so I got to try it. ?Perhaps my expectations were way too high, I was not impressed. ?I had the combination plate with chicken, lamb, rice, bits of salad pieces, and pita bread. ?I'm still a bit confused my the white sauce everyone was raving about, it tasted just like ranch dressing to me. ?The prices are very fair, they give you a lot of food. ?I wish they had half portions for single tourists so we can try more of what NYC had to offer without feeling guilty about wasting food. ?Dang I sound selfish. As warned beforehand, I saw many Halal carts at the intersection but it was easy enough to spot which one is THE one - the one with a crazy long line.
I visited on a Sunday afternoon thinking there won't be much of a line since all the neighboring offices are closed that day. I was wrong. I still waited about 20 mins. There's always a line because it's the BEST halal cart in NYC. Avoid all the other impostors around the area and look for the real Halal guys (they even have their own bright yellow t-shirts AND a facebook page!) Your mouth will come into contact with the best Halal food ever: saffron-scented rice, juicy (albeit salty) chicken, awesome gyro, a handful of crisp lettuce and warm pita bread. ? The guy threw in 2 tubs of yogurt white sauce and 2 little packets of red sauce. ?I asked him, "how spicy is the red sauce?" ?Gravely he said, "VERY spicy." Well, my Middle Eastern co-worker is always bullshitting me, so I didn't take Mr. Halal guy seriously. I pour the hot sauce all over my food and started eating. Minutes later, my tongue was numb, my nose was running and my mouth was on fire!!! I finished two bottles of ice cold water and it still took awhile for the burning sensation to clear up. ? BEST $6 lesson I've learned on this trip.
When I was first told of this amazing chicken and rice...who were they kidding its chicken and rice but WOW! ?This has got to be some of the best chicken and rice I have ever had and well worth the wait. ?An order is definitely enough to feed to people with some leftovers. ?Their falafel was also very good but do be careful of their hot sauce...its no joke and will burn a hole in your stomach if you put too much on your food...please use with caution!
THIS IS THE STUFF THAT DREAMS ARE MADE OF. Rice, amazing. Chicken, amazing. "White Sauce", amazing. I would make the five hour trip to new york JUST for this cart. I went here after a night out in NYC and my friends requested (no, demanded) we eat at this truck. I saw that the line was around the block for this one tiny cart and drunkenly agreed to the adventure. Finally, we were greeted by a hot tin foil covered bowl, and it was SO GOOD and well worth the wait! ?Basmati rice, perfectly seasoned chicken, to-die for chicken, yum. I found a "similar" recipe on huffington post which tries to copy the 53rd street original, but it's still not the same. Can't wait to go back to NYC -- not for the classic land marks or time square, but for the chicken and rice!!!
Mmm, this is orgasmic good. I've eaten here many times, and it seems to taste better every time. I guess my memory of how good the simple bowl of greatness tastes does not give it justice, because how can it surpass even what my mind imagines for the 3-4 month intervals between each time I get to cradle one of these hot tin plates? But it does. The only disappointment/anger I have for this past trip to NYC is that my craving and eagerness to eat chicken and rice ruined my appetite for Ippudo Ramen the same night. Yes, I could not finish my bowl of ramen :(( at one of my favorite places because I devoured the chicken and lamb combo merely 1.5 hrs prior. But not at all a bad way to "ruin" your appetite since I got myself another combo the very next day. If only I could have it all, and many many more of it. Okay, maybe not that many since I just found out each one of these plates is worth 2045 calories! Shocking? Yet I still ate it..
Worth the wait. I usually get the combo platter of chicken and lamb for $6 (Cash only!). Cheap, delicious, filling... what more can you ask for from a street cart?? The white sauce is crack. Smother your food in it, seriously, smother it. It's SO GOOD. I usually add a drop or two of the red sauce. It is crazy spicy and I learned the hard way. The first time I ever had halal here, my boyfriend and I were sharing a platter. He thought the red sauce was bbq sauce and poured it onto our platter. My stomach hurt and my tongue was numb for at least two days! So beware.
Almost three thousand reviews for a food cart. ?This is a testament to why I love NYC more so than this particular Halal cart on this corner. ? Yes people will argue and gesture and get very aggressive about whether this is THE best Halal food in the city, and while it is very good, I almost don't care whether it's the best. ?It is delicious, the hot sauce is DEADLY (so tread carefully), and the whole thing is a cliched but quintessential local New York experience. ? It's true that almost everything is delicious at 3am. ?But there's a reason why there is always a line here at that hour (and Kunjip).
Everyone know's it. 53rd and 6th - Best Lamb and Rice, PERIOD. I would walk a miles in the dead of winter and stand in line for 1 1/2 hrs for this. It is THAT GOOD. BUT! Just Recently, after years of see that "imitation" one across the street (on the F Station block) and mocking them, I decided to try it. They have the same sign, they have the same shirts, they have the same yellow printed bags... We've even seen them wheel the meat from the "real" one over to them. Verdict: ITS TASTES THE SAME!!! I may never stand in line again! Unless it's with out of state tourists, then I may - for the "experience". But knowing it really IS the same... I'm never waiting again!
I hate lamb, but somehow this place really fulfilled my late-night munchy's and made it sooooo good The food: -The good: obvi the chicken/gyro combination on rice (HINT: get plenty of WHITE SAUCE and BARBEQUE SAUCE ANDDDD SMOTHERRR IT, mix it up and chomp away into food coma) The service: uhh..its a food cart Would I come back? YEP, when my inner fatty is willing to drag my butt all the way to the Halal Cart in the middle of the night
Halal Cart... Amazing.. Visited New York and felt like i had to try it. ?I wanted to know what all the hype was about. ?I stood in a long line of about 30 people but got my food in less then 10 minutes. ?I loaded my aluminum dish with white sauce (copying others). The food was amazing and dirty cheap. ?I was able to share my dish with 1 other person and still be stuffed. ?You must get the white sauce because it really makes the dish. ?The rice is also very buttery and delicious. ?Beware of the red sauce it has quite a kick to it. I visited new york for 3 days and ended up eating here 3 times! This place was so amazing that I went here for a late night snack everyday I was here! ?I can't wait to go back and eat more.
I didn't make it in time for the end of the world but I was able to get some on Christmas. After Jesus, it was the best gift God gave. The fact that there was a line at 12:30 AM on Christmas shows how amazing this food is. Stop reading this review and go stand in line now.
umm yea next time you eat from this cart stop look around and ask hmmm wash hands ? umm do they use the bathroom ?? just might stop you from ordering really think about what you are putting in your mouth
Seriously has to be one of the greatest drunken munchies ever. The mixed combo (chicken and lamb) is delicious with extra white sauce. The hot sauce here is SERIOUS.. don't put too much! I made the mistake of putting too much hot sauce on the first time and it was so spicy I couldn't enjoy the dish (even though it was so good). The second time I used the hot sauce in moderation and it was perfect. This is one of the dishes I will miss most from NYC :(
pretty sure everyone else has already raved on and on about how delicious the chicken or lamb & rice platters are... and the mysterious but cracklike white sauce. 1. i prefer the lamb over the chicken 2. it tastes best hot and fresh from the cart. carry out/reheats/leftovers don't do it justice slash are borderline nasty 3. definitely tastes best after a night out, but not terrible (although more easily regrettable) during the day 4. the hot sauce is dangerous...ly delicious. it depends on your tolerance of spicy goodness but i'd put it at the hottest end of the hot spectrum. use sparingly.
Their rice over chicken is to die for. Plus they are extremely quick. There are chairs located close to the cart if one wants to eat there. Would say this is the best halal cart that I know of in Manhattan. And super cheap and super huge quantities.
if i had a choice and i lived in NY, i'd eat this every night. cant go wrong for $6.50 for chicken and rice. make sure to add the white and red sauce. there are other halal carts but this one is next to the water fountain.
I dont like this place. I dont understand the hype.
Better food than the expensive restaurants.
When its the middle of the night and your hungry where do you go? 53rd and 6th of course. I drive from Brooklyn all the way up to midtown for this. That is how good it is. I love the white sauce and just a touch of BBQ sauce on it and its time to devour it. I get the lamb usually but the chicken is good also. Be warned, it is greasy and you will be on the toilet the next day with your butthole burning. But it is totally worth it. I even think leftovers taste just as good.
There's an old saying, a smart person learns from their mistakes. A wise person learns from the mistakes of others. With that being said, BE CAREFUL WITH THE HOT SAUCE! I took the sage advice of street food aficionado Clint H who warned about the importance of not putting what you may normally consider to be a reasonable amount of hot sauce on your food. This hot sauce is one of those nuclear powered hot sauces where the taste lingers forever. A small dollop is plenty. Anyway, this is easily the best street food I've had in NY. And that's saying a lot considering how much crap I've eaten off the streets of NY over the past 2 decades. Don't automatically just go for the platter either because the sandwiches are monstrous and delicious as well. It gets a little messy but it's fine cuz the pigeons will love you for it. Take some extra napkins and be ready to hit the gym for your street sins. Totally worth running 5, err 10 miles for though.
a whole lotta tasty, flavorful chicken and rice for super-cheap. what's not to love? i eat pretty big but the portion size is extremely difficult for me to finish. pita's good, too. yum. miss you guys!
Why are you guys hypeing up such a standard halal cart. Its the same crap they serve on every other block. The food is decent but I would never stand on a line of 40 to get the same sh@t I can get 1 block down. Also the guys working their are nasty , rude and completely unappreciative for the business. they should just realize that they picked a good corner and got lucky with it.
this is the kinda food i miss in NYC!! nitty gritty no frills food! my gf and i ate this after we watched Newsies. we ordered our food and ate in the train, lol. man my halal meat with the rice and the sauce was sooo good. ?A LOT of food. it was kinda sad no one had it the next day but so worth the 7 bucks!
My oh my, how far food carts and trucks have come! ?They're on Yelp and many have their own websites. ?Like the Jeffersons, they're moving on up! Once upon a time, I was a snot nosed college kid who decided to partner with a buddy and become an entrepreneur. ?Created an online startup company, published a magazine and held an expo and fashion show at the famed Madison Square Garden. ?Well, since I'm yelping about a food cart as opposed to Peter Luger's or Colicchio & Sons, that should tell you how things worked out, LOL! ? This cart is a bright spot amidst the ashes of my former glory. ?Located in close proximity to the Hilton New York, where I stayed during a few trips to the city, this cart offers the real deal and then some. ?The food is fresh, packed with flavor and comes in massive portion sizes. ?Not to mention, relatively healthy....at least in comparison to fast food or pizza options. ?Best of all? ?The prices, which offer great value for what you receive. ?Chicken/Beef/Lamb along with rice, salad and pita bread for under $10. ?You get enough food for like 2 meals! ?Two for one!! ? In short, while people will throw out gazillions of names of places to go to in NYC, going to these carts at least once will fill you up, make you happy and protect your wallet. ?Enjoy!
The Halal Guys are the ones who opened me up to chicken and rice. ?I was introduced to them because my friends are fanatics and would drive from Queens in the middle of the night to fulfill their craving. ?Whenever I was in the city I would stop by on the way home from a night of drinking. ?I think they're food is good but not worth the drive. ?If you're in Queens try Halal guy in front of the Pizza Hut on Little Neck Parkway and Hillside Avenue. ?I think their food is banging.
Best cart in the city! ?I get the combo platter, the chicken is tasty and the lamb is just amazing. ?Watch out for the hot sauce, its one of the hottest sauces in the city. ?Cant go wrong with a gigantic platter and a soda for just $6!
I have to say that this place sure hits the spot after a few drinks ;) I'm sure other people were thinking the same because at 3:30AM, be sure to expect a long line. But, don't worry because the max you will have to wait before eating is probably 10 mins. I split this 3 way between my friends at $2/person. (Basically, split it because the proportions are ridiculously big). The chicken + lamb + rice + pita bread combo is delicious, but THAT WHITE SAUCE is what you will be hooked onto. Slather on the white sauce liberally, but use the spicy sauce with caution. Trust me, it almost burned a hole in my throat. If you think you can take spicy, think again!
for under 10 dollars, great food. It's enough for two people so I normally get it for lunch and save some for dinner later..
OK YELP, THE WRONG HALAL CART PIC OF THE MENU IS THE MAIN PHOTO FOR THIS PLACE! LOL.. SOMEONE GOT FOOLED AND WENT TO THE OTHER HALAL CART AHHAHAHA Yes, the OTHER corner, tricks you saying, "We're the same", I bet MANY people who reviewed this place probably reviewed the WRONG one. The one that says "WE THE ORIGINAL" or something is NOT THE ONE. They really try to fool you though when you pass them. They even have the same colors of shirts, similar umbrella on the cart. Obviously people here were fooled. So back to the review, YES THAT RED SAUCE IS HOT! IT ACTUALLY IS HOT. I witness someone pretty much cover his entire plate and we saw him start to eat it, and he got owned and just threw it away. He must have been embarassed to do the walk of shame to go back all the way to the end of the line to order another, as mentioned he just tossed it and left. The line moves quickly though, but don't ask too much questions. The guy had to speed us up telling us "we busy". We don't eat lamb, and that is what we were asking. Basically, IF IT DOESNT SAY WHAT MEAT........ IT WILL HAVE LAMB. On that note we shared 1 chicken plate. It really is good for 2. I understand the hype and the rave reviews. For $6 dollars FLAT, you get a lot of food to eat, and decent/good food at that. Don't expect sit down fancy 5 star restaurant stuff.. I swear some reviewers think that way. For what you pay and what you get, its a great value. The white sauce is a must though. It just brings everything together. I do feel bad for the other halal carts. I will have to try them out one day to see if this one is really better than the rest. But I take it from all the NY reviewers it might be.
Best Halal in the city? Not even close. Not anymore at least. I have to wonder how many other carts the typical person who calls this the best has actually tried, because it wouldn't be very hard to find something better. My last ?experience here was a pretty big letdown. Here's what's wrong with this cart: 1. Self service sauce on the side. I asked for my meal to go and was still directed to the self service bottles. Is this all they're doing now? How do they expect the average person to know the right ratio of hot sauce to white sauce? Because I sure as hell didn't, and went way too heavy on the hot sauce. My mouth and stomach (yeah, the next 24 hours were rough) both ended up paying a huge price. And while they're at it, what's BBQ sauce doing in unlabeled bottles next to the white sauce? Since when did that become a Halal staple? WAY too easy to mistakenly dump some BBQ sauce onto your food, thinking it's hot sauce. I did, and I'm sure I wasn't the first. 2. The fact that everyone lines up for this one is mystifying when the same exact food is being served by these guys right across the street. Do people think this cart pays more for its meat and has more highly trained chefs? A social scientist would have a field day with this. 3. Bland meat and rice. Anything will start to taste like it has flavor when you drown it in a few ounces of white sauce (mayo) and hot sauce, but the chopped meat and electric orange rice don't stand on their own very well. Check out Sammy's in Jackson Heights (or on 6th Ave and West 4th Street) for some real deal Halal.
Word of mouth travels fast. In this instance The moment I came to New York the first thing people told me to try was this place. I finally got the chance to try it. Knowing how famous it was I decided to wait until around 5PM to go line up, the wait was about 10 min which is pretty good considering what it is during peak hours. Not only were the suggestions true, it was also far beyond what I could imagine. I tried the MIx Combo, which has rice, chicken, lamb, salad, pita bread, and a special sauce. This sauce is what tops off this enticing combination of food. Its creaminess and consistency is indescribable. You must taste it to understand. It looks like ranch but it is completely different. They must have worked some serious magic on that sauce because it is the bomb. Not only is it succulent, aromatic, and filling, it is also an enjoyable experience. Holding a round aluminum pan of goodness sitting on a ledge in front of stores and buildings I swing my feet to the rhythm of the view of Avenue of the Americas. This is the ultimate New York experience.
Love this place! Used to come here all the time. ?I moved to SoCal and have been craving this since I moved. Can't wait to go home and get me some of this! The lamb plate is the best. ?The red sauce is spicy, but is soo good.
I'll keep it brief. ?Overrated. ?The line is too long, and the food is too bland. ? There are so many good carts-- many of them zabihah/halal-- in the City. ?Do some research (here: newyorkstreetfood.com), and find something better suited to your tastes. Im happy to see, though, that these guys are making halal food such an integral part of new york tourism. :)
While it's certainly satisfying, I can't help but wonder...what am I actually putting into my mouth? Look, you get what you pay for, and at $6 bucks a plateful, it's almost equivalent to two whole meals. That said, I wouldn't go out of my way to get it or eat it more than once or twice a month. The real deal: Get the red sauce. Skip the white. Do not think about what's in there.
TOURIST? Grab an extra on the go for the plane ride home! NEW YORKER? Go everyday :') I suggest the chicken/lamb mix so you don't have to be torn between the two. Only $6, includes warm rice and pita bread!!! Beware of the red sauce, it's spicier than the average hot sauce BUT SO GOOD. Extra white sauce to get the full experience. #whatdiet
Amazing! Came to get the chicken over rice 3 days in a row! Stood in line a couple of times which can seem intimidating, but need not worry-not only does it go fast, but each bite is worth every second of you waiting. Only thing I regret is not stocking up to bring some on the plane home to Cali so I can give my family members a bite of NY's Halal Heaven. =)
Most of the Halal guys are Coptic christians from Egypt.... For people who do not know whats Halal and Haram can go and eat, it does not really matter. But for people who really care to eat halal, better to stay away.... Coptic Christians believe more in the opposite side of halal...when it comes to eating... if we take out the divine factor that the muslims follow out of halal and consider just the health aspects. The draining of the blood from the animal leaves it tasteless and the carcus of the animal whose blood is undrained will be more tasty but carry lots of impurities causing deceases at a later stage..... Reality check....
Awesome place, but only visit the 6th ave cart. I've gotten sick a few times at their carts on 7th ave because the food isn't warm anymore due to fewer customers. Make sure you go to the 6th ave location because they're always cooking so you'll have a higher probability of getting fresher food.
SO good but SO bad. Please do yourself a favor and eat from here when you're sober. ?The food is great, obviously. ?Watch out for the spicy sauce, my heat tolerance is very high and even this one makes my mouth burn. When drunk: ?you WILL hurt the next day. ?Every inch of your insides WILL be on fire all hangover long.
great for the price
WOW... WOW... WOW! All of the rave reviews about this cart are LEGIT. ?Out of all of the times I've visited NYC, I've never had this actual well-known cart and opted for the imitation carts instead -- and I'll never settle for anything less than this cart again! After calling it an early night (for NYC standards) at 1AM, a friend suggested to take us here. ?In the freezing, below 20 degree weather, there was already a line. ?People were eating outside and in their cars. ?I wanted to get the best of both worlds, so I tried the gyro and chicken combo over rice. ?Like other reviewers mentioned, the white sauce is AMAZING. ?I also got the hot sauce, which was a lot spicier than I thought it would be... but it was still good. For only $6, you get a piping hot container of succulent meat over rice. ?This is a must try if you're ever in NYC!
This is the legend. ?For 6 bucks down you get a huge platter of delicious chicken, rice, pita, and veggies. ?As so many have said, you need that heavenly white sauce! ?Do not go light on that sauce, it really makes the meal. The line is insane, but if you go slightly early it's not as bad.
I find myself more critical when it comes to hyped up places like this one, but this definitely lived up to the hype! Had the gyro and the combo plate and both were delicious. I would probably opt for the combo plate (only $6) for the amount of food, and it's less messy. Perfect for a chilly day. I always take extra sauces to go - the hot sauce has a real kick! The line goes fast and it's so worth it. I usually can't finish a plate in one sitting unless I'm starving.
I have eaten here a couple of times. Most memorable time was with a bunch of friends on new year's at probably 3 am in the morning. ? There a number of carts in this area, you can spot the Halal guys by the queue at their cart. ?The combo platter was good, cheap (around 6$), huge portions. I prefer the lamb combo. ?The sauces are great, take warnings about the hot sauce seriously - it's really spicy. Great spot for good food and people watching after a drunken night out in the city.
dunno the difference between the two spots but chicken & rice here is THE BEST. one of my favoritest NYC foods!!!!!!!!
Spicy and delicious... always a fun late night option when you're uptown.
AMMMMMMMMaaazinnnnnnngggggggggggggg. && not expensive. The perfect post-club or 4AM comfort food. What more can one ask for? There is crack in the food. Figuratively ;-)
This is the Halal cart everyone talks about. The first two times I've been here I've been lucky to only be on the line for less than 10 minutes. That's unheard of. It's become so popular that they had to set up a second cart across the street to accommodate the crowd...but I don't trust it XD WHAT TO EXPECT IF YOU'RE WILLING TO TRY IT OUT: - Cash Only (at least I think it still is) - Lines are, on average, half a New York avenue long, especially longer during the weekend nights. Make sure you invest a good amount of time to try this sh*t. - Their white sauce is some kind of sorcery (It's so good, I honestly don't want to know what's in it). Pour that sh*t on! - Their spicy sauce is only for the brave and insane. Their spicy sauce sh*ts on whatever you put in your purse. In fact, I suggest getting the spicy sauce and pouring that into your empty Sriracha bottle. They have an unaffiliated cart that sells drinks, alas, they are little bit overpriced due to the proximity of the Halal cart. - The price-portion ratio is ridiculous. I'm a first-generation Italian male...when we say portions are ridiculous, you may want to prepare to bring leftovers home. - Can't remember if they are still opened near closing time (2-4am in the city), but if they are, be prepared for drunks stumbling to haphazardly cure their pending hangover. - The only place to sit nearby is the fountain on the corporate plaza the cart happens to be on. You may want to expect sitting on the curb or walking and eating. I probably missed or mistaken a few things, but as a lazy bastard who loves to eat with no consequence, I'd say try it out. :)
What?! I haven't written a review for this cart yet? I don't give out too many 5 star reviews but this one fits the bill. OK, if you want a detailed review, you can read the rest of the 3,000 reviews...but all I have to say is that I will travel from California just to get my hands on that plate. It is cheap ($6), convenient (it's a cart!), and quick (2 minutes once your order is placed). Try the white sauce, it surprisingly complements the chicken, rice, and veggies. Will I come back again? Halal Yeah!
Another dirty, disgusting street meat cart which gets far more attention than it deserves. ?For several years this location was on my way to work, and each morning you can see the greasy, dirty residue which has permanently seeped into the sidewalk from this cart - I can only imagine what it does to peoples' bodies after they eat here on a regular basis... If you're looking for a cheap dinner, spend another $5 and go to Whole Foods or somewhere else nearby.
We're from Boston and go to NYC every summer for a couple of days to catch a show. Heard about this cart a couple of years ago but didn't know its location. ?Stayed at the Hilton last summer and thought we found it because there was a huge line...but we weren't hungry. Just got back tonight from this summer's trip AND yes, we found it, we waited in the long line, and we finally got the delicious lamb platter with the white (ranch??) sauce. WOW, we have to wait a whole year for our next meal. Since we only spend a few nights in the city, we think we could easily make this dinner for the three nights we are there. EXCELLENT!
Best place for late night munchies after you leave a party or club in the city. The line gets super long but it's definitely worth the wait.
This halal street meat cart is like every other halal street meat cart in the city. ?It's great, but no different from the other ones a block away. ? ?"oh, but the white sauce is so good". ?Yeah, well, they all have white sauce. ?I don't see what the big deal about this place is. ?It's great. ?But they're all the same. ?Just because you stood in line for 20 minutes doesn't mean it's any better. ?Go wherever the shortest line is.
So simple, yet so great! Chicken and rice plus white sauce.. This place is AMAZINGGG when you're starving for some comfort food. It feels homemade and it's delicious. Chicken isn't dry, rice isn't bad.. there's pita bread as well. Perfect! Just be aware that taxi's don't let you eat inside their cars :( sad!
Not much to add to a NYC hot spot with this many reviews. However, here's my tried, tested guide to exporting this to enjoy a day later. Say, if you are like me, live in another country and come to stock up. -Tupperware is your friend Leaving the food in the aluminum dish will make your luggage smell like halal. If you like smelling like halal, then fine. The plate shifts and squishes, and the paper lid will find a way to wrangle out of the edge grips. Then your clothes will be eating halal. -Skip the salad The salad on numerous occasions have made the rice soggy, and wet. After a few hours it's probably not good to consume anyway. This just means more rice and meat for you! -Skip the sauce, but grab the individual packets Obvious reasons. -Put it in the oven to warm is best 15 min and the rice, meat and pita bread is toasty and good to eat. Microwave makes the pita tough and chewy. -Transport it in the yellow plastic bag To get a high five from the security guys at the airport. -Carry on max is 6 6 plates stacked will fit under the seat on most airlines, perfectly. -Eating on the plane there is no courteous way of eating halal on an airplane. Everyone will smell it and will hate you.
*** Across the street from MoMA, at the 53rd St. corner. Don't be confused... not that I saw any other halal food carts around. First time having "street food". And it was amazing. I was starving so I probably scarfed down a quarter of my plate before actually realizing how good it was. And it was good. The fans aren't exaggerating. For $6/plate, this was plenty of food and delicious food at that. Finishing the whole plate will probably last you a good two meals. Suspicious white sauce, not gonna lie. Yogurt-based? But it went amazing with the chicken and rice. Hot sauce is hot. Very hot. Use sparingly.
Pretty solid stuff. I think I would've liked the gyro over rice, instead of wrapped, but it was still great. The price is unbeatable and the service is awesome. I think I've had better Halal in the city, though.
You think every Halal cart is the same??! No way Jose! This is the best of the BEST, so much so that when my friend came from Dominican Republic to visit I took her here. which pretty much a WTF at first and now well lets just say its all she craves. Yup that good!
4 stars for the Gyro only. If you are a Falafel eater, this is not your place.
Best halal truck in the city. I've been eating here since my teens, when I'd come out of a concert at Radio City and want more than a hot dog. It's particularly good late at night (it's still there at 3am!) but maybe that was just the drunk being hungry. Either case, it's just good all around. The meat is never dry, and there's plenty of food for the $. I prefer mine with lots of white sauce and just a little red sauce (spicy!). White sauce goes with everything.
The food is great. For 6 dollars they give you a lot of food. Whats also great, its right across the street from my job.
This review popped up as "Have you been here?" and I had to take a moment before I could remember that I have, in fact been here. The fact that it is basically a New York landmark is reason enough to stop by and try this place out. It's nothing spectacular, but it has high ratings for a food cart for a reason. You get a ton of food for a minimal price (compared to the rest of NYC) and an experience as well. Try it!
So happy to visit the east coast because I get to go to the city and indulge in this amazing halal food. Chicken and rice has been the got to spot ESP after a late night party in the city. It hits the spot and its only $6 and you get rice chicken or lamb or both and pita and salad. Please add white sauce because ur platter will not be complete without it..and add just a little bit of hot sauce because trust me its super spicy. They have BBQ sauce too if ur into that. There's two spots..one on each side of 53rd st. They are the exact same ppl so don't be fooled by the long line thinking that's the "real" one...they are the same. Trust me,
Love their food! Filling, yummy, readily available and affordable!
So I've been waiting to try chicken and rice for so long now that we came out of our way just to try it and was not disappointed. $6 for a huge, hot plate of chicken, gyro meat, rice, pita bread and lettuce. The meats came in generous portions and were seasoned well. the pita bread was soft and paired well with the white sauced meaty goodness. Make sure to put your own sauces on.. The guy put ours on for us and absolutely drenched it in white sauce, which was good but made it way too rich. Also, I'm glad I read the yelp reviews on the hot sauce. I love spicy food and would have normally drenched my plate with hot sauce, which would have been terrible. The hot sauce is delicious in smaller portions though. Overall, a really great deal and perfect drunk food (though its great sober as well!)
I was not impressed with the food here. The hype with this food cart made me expect the best. The food was good but it wasn't phenomenal. The white sauce saves the meat and the dry rice. Most people said you'd have to be drunk to think this was really really good. They're probably right. It was decent but not great in my books.
One of the few places worth waiting on line
This is a MUST TRY! After getting food from one of the Halal Cart, I couldn't stop thinking about how delicious it was. When I came across The Halal Guys while roaming around NYC, I had to stop and get it again! Not to mention that I was still full from lunch...but I couldn't help myself.
In the past I'd recommended tourists or out of state friends to try NY's staples such as pizza, hot dogs, and steaks etc. Now, I just wouldn't feel right if I didn't force them to try a platter of chicken and rice. No matter what race or type of food you're used to eating, you owe it to yourself to try it at least once. It's the best middle eastern food has to offer- flavorful succulent grilled chicken, over deliciously aromatic fresh rice, drizzled, or as I love to do, drench with a secret white sauce that puts every other sauce in existence to shame, garnished with some greens and tomatoes to just to take an edge of guilt away from the high caloric meal you're about to mow through. One bite, and you're addicted. And 53rd and 6th is the place to experience this orgasmic epicness in a platter for a measly 6 bucks. Seriously what are you waiting for go now!
I thought this place was okay...def alot of food for 6 bucks and the cheapest place I ate at during my stay in New York. The white sauce was a little too mayonnaise-y for me. However my boyfriend loved it though. He even brought some back to the hotel and reheated it with a blow dryer. Lol. Overall, I think I was overhyped to try this place out, but if definitely will come back for a cheap bite to eat. Some notes: lines are long but move very quickly The red sauce is super hot!!
Well prepared and tastes great. You can get lamb rice, chicken rice, both or a gyro style wrap. The price is $6, and the fixins are on the side of their cart. The chicken is moist and tender, the lamb/gyro meet is chopped up nicely. It all just works. There are many other similar carts and, admittedly, their food isn't bad either. This one is a notch above however - because they've been around long enough to perfect it and because their turnover is far more rapid, so the food is more fresh - or at least more fresh for cart food.
Not the best but might need to try it again.
AMAZING! Especially after you've party-rocked all night! The white sauce is a must. Watch out for the red sauce! The red sauce is literally the hottest sauce I've ever encountered. It's almost like they put crack in the food.
Damn I can't believe I didn't review this place sooner. I've been coming here before I used Yelp as guide to my food adventures. It's a blessing from the gods. The best way to eat this is chicken lamb combo. The chicken gives it that moist dry taste while the lamb has the oily fatty texture and when combined it creates a well balanced meal like a ying yang symbol on a plate. Then with the crunchy sliced lettuce your good to go. All of this embedded over fresh rice that makes the essence of the Halal Guys in its purest form. It is like how rice is with sushi, it's not the same with out it. Of course you got to put that white sauce. That white sauce is like gods spit with magic drugs. Mixed with the hot sauce that needs only droplets turns it into the ultimate super saiyan power taste. Nothing else more to say but it's the best $6.00 I've ever spent times infinite and beyond.
Halal guys is not only one of the best values in town... ?It's one of the best meals in town. The menu is simple... Sandwich or plate, chicken lamb or falafel. ?Have tried everything but the falafel and all are good. ?It's no secret I put way too much sauce on everything I eat, But like everyone else is writing... The sauces really complete the entree. ?The spicy sauce is fire and the white sauce is the perfect compliment. Must stop cart for sure! ?Protip: ?Don't be deceived by the long lines... Often moves faster than you would guess. ?A decent length line often means you get fresher food... Much better than the stale stuff you'll often find over on 7th ave!
Following the example of a friend, I always order the chicken/lamb mixed platter. The first time I loved it--and the second and third... I'm not even sure how many times I've stopped here now. I always take two containers of white sauce and use at least one--it's delicious! The spicy sauce is VERY hot--I just sprinkle it on a few drops at a time until it's reached the amount of spiciness I want. But since November, the lamb has been consistently disappointing. The chunks are bigger than they used to be, but more importantly, it somehow just doesn't taste as good. At $6, I'll still come back, just not as often.
Not your average Halal cart. Hugeee servings and great sauces. Be around the area by 7/8pm to skip the crazy lines
Falafel & Chicken over rice tastes really good. Beware of the hot sauce.
The first time i came to NYC, this was a 5 star establishment. The quality has died since then. They run multiple carts all throughout the block, my friend was skeptical that they weren't the 'true' Halal Guys, however, it is confirmed that they are all the same; that being said, i suppose quantity of customers and speed that they can get through them trumped quality of product in the eyes of the Halal Guys. It just isnt the same, prior to the quality change it was like biting into a piece of heaven, or floating on a cloud, a gastrogasmic experience of sorts. However, now the place is simply good, really good, but no longer the 5 star staple it once was. I'm still tempted, and do give in to temptation at times, to grab one of these babies whenever i'm in the city.
My wife and I had flown in from California and were looking for a late night meal. ?After reading many positive reviews on Yelp, we decided to give Halal a try. ?Overall, the taste was below mediocrity (maybe it's because my wife and I had tried a better tasting location such as Dish Dash in Sunnyvale, CA). ?We ordered the gyro and chicken. ?The quantity was appealing to the eyes but the taste of the meats was so plain and bland even after drenching it with yogurt and hot sauce. ?We ordered two plates assuming that we would eat like pigs. ?However, we ended up eating approximately 1/8 of the portion each and discarding the rest. ? I understand that although there are many positive reviews written on here, I must say that we were disasatisfied with the food. ? +1 star for the cheap price and +1 star for the portion size.
My journey here..includes hopping in 2 subway trains and walking about .8 mile to get here at 4am. What happens when we get there? We get in a freakin long ass line (seriously New York wtf?) for some cart that serves chicken and rice. The frustrating part? We walked by 3 Chicken and Rice carts prior to getting to this one and they did not have any business. I can't imagine this place tasting any better than the other ones? This is a classic great word of mouth marketing vs good food. This place has the best chicken and rice I've ever had (the only chicken and rice I've ever had) and it wasn't mind blowing. Not enough to line up at 4am for a plate. Yes I was drunk too! Food: 3 Environment: 4 (I love eating from street vendors) Price: 4 ($6 ! )
HALAL AND I HAVE A LOVE/HATE RELATIONSHIP. Holy shit, I can handle spice... I mean I drench EVERYTHING in hot sauce....Buuuuuuuuuuut your red sauce is probably the spiciest I've ever tried. like DAMN. I came after a long drunken night and drenched my shit in red sauce... could not breath after the two bites and immediately felt a sharp pain in my stomach, but that did not stop me. That's how bomb halal is. omg. BEST drunken food ever. Hahaha our cab driver the last night had a "connect"... we skipped the annoying line and he pulled to the side and had a couple handed to us. DRIVE THRU HALAL CONNECT, hollaaaaaaaaa
Flat out love it. After I got over the fact that I was eating a heaping helping of street meat, I ate this with the red and the white sauce. Delicious. I eat here every time I'm in the city now (once every month or two). Literally one of my favorite places to eat in the country.
got this every night i was in ny. i like the lamb and chicken (the lamb has more flavor) with LOTs of hot sauce. their hot sauce is spicy for some... it's inexpensive which is a plus.
How can you argue with 3400+ good reviews? Just try it, it's freakin' delicious! You get SO MUCH FOOD for $6 & you can mix & match your meats & sauces. It is cash only, so hit up the bank before you come here. Heck, pull out extra cash because you're gonna want to come back tomorrow after eating here today!
Hard to beat for late night eats. ?Lamb over rice, cheap, good. ?There is a reason these guys have a cart working each corner of 53rd & 6th each night.
Wow, cannot get enough of this food! So greasy, so bad for you, and so cheap for six bucks! The ones in the white plastic bag are the way to go. The yellow plastic bag one doesn't taste as good, imo. Go to the cart on the southwest corner of the street across from the Hilton and next to the fountain and benches. It may not be the longest line, but it's definitely the best option on this intersection.
For 6 bucks, what else can u ask for? I mean the service is fast and friendly, the portions are ridiculously generous and the hot sauce is one of the hottest I have ever set my mouth on. Perfect drunk food after a night out. 5 stars for value, consistency and convenience.
Very good This place has an INSANE line pretty much all the time, but it is REALLY good - even for street meat. Its also one of the cheapest filling meals you can get in the city. If you're prepared to deal with the wait, its definitely worth it.
The 53rd & 6th Halal Cart is an institution in NYC for street meat. These guys are famous, they go by the name Halal Guys with the yellow uniform shirts. If you're in the area, it's hard to miss this, you will generally find a very long line down 53rd street. There are 4-5 guys manning the cart at any given time and the line moves. They got all the $6 platters ready to be filled with your choice of meat: chicken, gyro (lamb) or the mix. Chicken is my go-to, a little healthier than the gyro. The gyro is tasty, but it will sit with you for a long time. After you eat it, you know it's going to be in your system for a while. The platters come with yellow rice, lettuce, the choice of meat and the pita bread. Have only eaten here after work, so I can't rate the experience from a sudsy perspective as other Yelpers have done so. When you get your food, don't forget the sauces at the right side of the cart if you will be dining on the benches nearby. You can get the white sauce, BBQ sauce, and the hot sauce (top shelf). That hot sauce is pretty hot, so pace yourself when you douse it on your food. It's hot, but not as hot as Mamoun's falafel sauce. They have this thing down to a science, with the main cart serving up the food. There's another cart after you get your food where you get the drinks like soda or water and they have a big LED sign that's scrolling "Cold Drinks". Smart move. They even have a 3rd cart where all the ingredients are housed. You may find that an ingredient runner is moving between the main cart and an unmarked one down 53rd toward the west side. Try this place at least once in your life. You will either love it or hate it.
A policeman recommended this cart. I must say that the people working there are delightful - funny and friendly. My group ordered the chicken over rice. Two of us took several bites and then threw out the rest. I ate much more and got sick from it. Avoid this cart.
Its a shame but this place used to be good like 5 years ago. ?But they got greedy and the quality of the meat has went down , especially the lamb. ?There are much better places in NY then this place. ?People that go here are just buying into the hype.
Very Long lines no matter what time you go. But the food was pretty good for only $6. The chicken was very tender and the lamb was slow cooked. It is a required stop for all NYC trips
Residing from southern Cali after a night of drinking Mexican food is the way to go. ?In NY I experienced the Halal Guys. Wow! ?You get a lot of great tasting food for $6! ?You either get chicken, lamb or beef combined with rice with an option to get falafel! It was awesome!
crack food!! best food to have after night of drinking. especially with white sauce, hot sauce, and bbq sauce. mix it all together you got an awesome meal. combo is half chicken and lamb. if you get lamb put more sauce beacuse its a little dry. The portion is huge so share it with a friend or two.
tastes great at the moment feel terrible 10mins later
mmMmm good. All good things happen inside this one plate. I can't finish it, but I keep yearning for more because it was just that good. I would go that extra mile just to get it. I never really like mayo, but you have to put this on because it makes it that much better. If you like a kick to your rice, use their hot sauce. But let me give you a fair warning that it's going to be spicy. For just $6, I would come back here again for sure. The lines are long, but they serve quick. ?(****)
Absolutely the best chicken and rice in New York and by far the best Halal food cart. There are four of them on each corner of this block, very long lines but they do move quick and worth the wait.
I've been here once, but since then I loved it and I was totally satisfied with the food! So good! I hope I go here again soon.
I must admit, on a warm sunny wednesday afternoon. Having been fed up with work and all the b/s that i had to deal with in the morning, I decided to take a nice leisurely walk to midtown and get a little quiet time with myself. I figured what better time to walk to 53rd and 6th and experience the magic that everyone seems to be raving about. With anticipation and pep in my step i got to the cart and waited over 15 minutes for that street meat that over 4K yelpers have raved about. After i paid my 7 dollars (an extra dollar for Welch grape sode - my fave). I found nice spot and prepared to dig into that deliciousness. I went through the ritual of pouring that rich luscious white sauce over the chicken/lamb and rice, and added a few more drops of red sauce. Once it looked ready, i took a bite. And guess what? all i can say was 'meh'. I did not see sparkles, or unicorns, or anything magical. It was just a mix of meat and rice. No different than the street meat that i had when i had worked down on 23rd and 5th. Maybe i'm not a street meat connoisseur, and can not discern the depths of flavor that this halal cart offered vs. the one just a block down the street. Or maybe all other halal cart is soooooo bad that this one being medicore is the best one of the lot. I hope i did not offend the 4K yelpers who absolutely adore this cart. But for me, this is a pass. Though i'm glad i tried it once though.
The best halal stand ever!! It is worth the 45 minute wait. I been here 5 times and each time it was around 45 minutes. I usually come here at night around 11pm for my craving!!!! This place is cheap and rain or shine there's always a line. And yes they are that good. I usually order the lamb over rice. It is amazing here. For $6 you get a huge portion and they do not compromise with the flavor. In the box they have a large portion of lamb meat, rice, pita bread and lettuce. After you pay, you put in as much of the white sauce, barbecue, or hot sauce. That's what I like about this stand, you get to put in as much or as little sauce as you want.
This is a New York Staple! ?The Mixed with Rice is fantastic. The white sauce is primarily made out of crack and is unstoppably delicious. The recipe that truly interests me though is the red-hot sauce. The sauce is something else, just one or two drops of the stuff are sure to send you to the infirmary. I am pretty sure it is made out of red peppers, childrens dreams, unicorn tears and a dash of black pepper. SO very very good! The only real downside is that they raised their prices from 5 bucks to 6 and there is always a line of tourists waiting in line not really knowing whats going on. ?These guys run all the carts on this corner and the one across 6th Ave is the same food by the same people and usually has less people waiting in line. Protip: For those folks doing takeaway. Get the mix with rice no salad. It will make travel and reheating that much better.
Don't care about service? Don't care about ambiance? Only care about the food? Then damn, you got it at this place. Double sauce over everything (anything?), like my life depended on it, and blissful eatings.
Ok, I've traveled to New York many times now. Being a foodie, there are so many places to pick from and so many places to try. I've eaten at so many places all over New York, but the ONE place I've been to EVERY time I've been to NY: 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. The reviews speak for themselves. A summary of what this place is, and why I deem it worthy of 5 stars: Cheap, fair portions, open late, no frills, tasty food. I've only gotten the combo plates, but you get your rice, you get your meat, you get some pitas, and you even get some greens! Pour some of their special sauces on it, and you're good to go. Note: The hot sauce is HOT. I'm the kind of person that often eats "spicy" food and then says, "this isn't really spicy at all." Well this hot sauce is serious business, so try a little before you decide to slather it all over your food. Keep in mind the hot sauce is the red bottle on the UPPER rack of sauces. The red bottles on the lower rack of sauces is BBQ sauce. What I especially like about the hot sauce is that it makes the food hot without changing the flavor profile of the food (yeah, I'm talking about YOU: sriracha, tabasco, etc). If you do find that you've used too much hot sauce, go generous with their white sauce to balance it out. Don't come here expecting gourmet food. Don't come here expecting Michelin starred service. Don't even come here expecting to find somewhere to sit. Come here late, come here hungry, come here drunk, or all of the above, and you'll leave very happy!
The food tastes so good i loved it I get a combo with white sauce and it tastes so good please you have got to Try this if you live in New York
truly the best
When someone mentions chicken or gyro over rice, they're usually referring to 53rd and 6th. They'll also mention how the portions are huge. I think Halal Guys is the Mcdonald's of Halal street food. I've had plenty of experience with halal carts. I've had them in every borough. Sammy's, King of Falafel, Biryani Cart, and a place on Continental Ave in Forest Hills are just a handful of places better than Halal Guys. Halal Guys makes things in huge amounts to satisfy the large amounts of people they serve every night. Unfortunately, this leads to bland food that is overhyped. To make things cook faster, they mince the meat to make things cook faster, but then you lose the texture of the meat and it makes me unable to differentiate the lamb from the chicken. That doesn't mean I won't go here to satisfy my drunk cravings. It's still good enough for drunk me to eat. Otherwise, I'll go elsewhere. Oh and their hot sauce is really hot which is one of the few things I like about them.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG WITH HALAL? The answer is NONE! That is how good halal is. For me, having tasty and cheap food in the middle of NYC which is filled with upscale restaurants and bars, is more than enough. Halal is a must visit place no matter how long the queue is. I spend 4 nights in NYC and I went to Halal for the whole 4 nights. The lamb is super nice. I am the type of person who rarely eat lamb, ?but for Halal, it is an exception! The tsatziki sauce is indescribable.It was out of the ordinary. Plus, you will have to eat it outdoor so you will also be able to enjoy NYC's scenery. Everytime I went to NYC, I will always bring Halal back home.
I have heard a lot about this. ?I came, not drunk, but STARVING. ?I was honestly very underwhelmed... it was good, but definitely not as good as I had expected. ?The white sauce - good. ?The hot sauce - yum! ?Rice and chicken/lamb - ok. I guess next time, the key is = don't expect much and come drunk!
Delicious!!! Went here twice this week!! I have yet to find something like this in LA to satisfy my cravings for this place. I get the combo plate - lamb/chicken, some yummy orange rice, lettuce and their wonderful white sauce and hot sauce. For $6, one of the best deals in NYC!!
Being from NYC, I used to hit this place up all the time. ?Not being there anymore, I dream of this place all the time. ?SF thinks they have good street food and food trucks and whatever, but nothing in SF even comes close to comparing to 53rd and 6th (or any Halal Cart in NYC, for that matter.) ?Can't wait to get back to NYC so I can have my Chicken over Rice with White Sauce again......
I've been getting the chicken over rice and chicken gyro always, but thanks to my brother for ordering it, I tried the lamb last night and it was bomb I def have another meat of choice at the cart!!
Ate here a while ago and it was amazing!!!! Everyone around the cart recommended it once I said that I haven't tired it and omg!! It was so good!!
BEST HALAL EVER! ?the portion is so big and even though halfway through your stomach begins to open at the seams ,you can't stop eating because I swear there's crack sprinkled on the stuff. Get the combo plate, you'll love it.
Excellent. Our favorite food cart when we go to NYC. Just try it and you won't regret it.
The ultimate late night food, I will travel and pay tolls to fulfill my need for a mixed platter bathing in white sauce. ? If you can get on the cart on the Hilton side of the that's the better meal in my opinion. If you're a true fiend get two platter ones for immediate consumption and one for the next day. They always say it's gotta be good if there is a line and there is a hell of a line nightly for the street meat. ?Rain or shine, day or night, hot or cold be prepared to wait to get your hands on this. ?However, the workers here are efficient and most of the people eating here are return customers who know what they want so the line isn't really terrible. ?The only time you'll have to wait an extended period of time is when they are cooking up a new batch of chicken and lamb. Another word of caution, the hot sauce is murderous. ?I only put a couple drops for a change in flavor here and there. ? Gourmet's need not apply here, its hefty amounts of street meat and rice.
I don't know why everyone is still so crazy about this spot and late at night you'll see the usual long line stretching down right by the Hilton. Over the years i think the guys have been getting too big for their britches as the quality of food has gone down. Few years back the lamb and chicken were of great quality and the rice was perfectly cooked. Now as of today 2013 chicken is of poor quality with cartiledge, lamb is overly cooked and dried out and the yellow rice is not even cooked all the way through as you'll chew on not full cooked crunchy yellow rice. So sad to see what use to be a great cart go down in quality as their success is too big now. The only item that's quality is the same is the famous white sauce. Yes it's all about the white sauce. Not sure what the secret ingredients are in the white sauce but it makes anything taste good including the poorly prepared chicken/lamb over rice. Good to see that at least the sauce is still good. Also the 5 alarm small container of hot sauce. Wow, that is super hot as i can only use a bit over my plate. Hopefully they can get their act back together.
Good lord. Still as fattening and delish as I remember from 2 years ago. I love you. The one across the street IS THE EXACT SAME. You noobs.
This place is so overrated. There are three Halal Guys carts on the corner. The line was not really long but the workers at the cart on the corner on the same side of the street with the Hilton hotel, were rude. (the cart that does not sell drinks) We got the lamb and rice and chicken and rice. The lamb and rice was better than the chicken and rice, but that is't saying much. Both were dry, overcooked, and flavorless. I do not know if the 5 star reviews are from people who have not had really good halal food but this was mediocre at best. I have had halal food from food trucks in DC that tastes better. One upside was the white sauce which was delish! The red sauce is extremely hot.
This street alone is like the battle of the halal carts with literally a cart on every corner of this block. Well im ready for this smack down... Well smacking my lips down on some halal food that is. I like the combo with chicken and lamb over rice but if you want to be all exotic about it get the lamb. Its something different and not necessarily something you can just make at home. The yellow rice it comes with is okay but i like it when they spice up the rice too. I have eaten at a lot of halal carts and eat halal about once a week. Some places add cinnamon and caraway seeds. I didn't really see any visible spices but the lamb is well seasoned. Some other places focus on their salad and they give you cucumbers and peppers and chickpeas and olive oil but this place is just your standard lettuce and tomato. Some places even give you an egg not this place. But with their well prepared lamb steaming hot off the grill once you smell the meat juices cooking you cannot say no. I bet you can follow the smell of this steam cloud of spices from the MOMA a block away like a cartoon finger beckoning at the tip of your nose. The only inconvenience is the long line and the lack of seating to eat and yes I recognize that its street food but sometimes after waiting so long you just want to chow down right away. They actually put up a scaffold at the plaza where I normally sit and put a net to keep people away for our own safety i guess. No more free seating but still a good place to go tourist watching while you are waiting. Or you can play punch buggy with your friends while you wait on this crazy line for your food. There's like 5 cabs to every 1 normal car going down 6th Avenue. Now onto the sauce! They say the proof is in the pudding but when it comes to halal the secret is in the sauce. The white sauce and the hot sauce is like the ultimate fight of good versus evil once it hits your tongue.... and as it goes down... and as it comes out the next day (you know what i'm talking about *eewie*). But its all about the balance because that hot sauce is like crazy steam out of your ears hot sometimes and that white tzatziki sauce is like a balm to your mouth to quench the fi-yah! If you can make it through the crowds of tourists come grab some decent halal. Definitely cheap and definitely a different kind of street food experience. #yelpsbucketlist
2,000 calories a platter ?.. and worth every single one down to the very last bite (168g of protein though!) - SOOO GOOD .. especially after a night out drinking! Know plenty of people who drive in from NJ/LI just for platters! Cannot go wrong!
Omg..... cheap, fast, and ..... awesome. This place fits the criteria for the perfect fast food. Food = great Quantity = plentiful Service = They're super cool Price = Super cheap ($6) I get the mixed w/ rice and extra white sauce. Always get the extra white sauce... lol.. super good. FYI. They have three locations. The other location is on the same St, but just one avenue to the left (53rd and 7th). I don't know where the third location was.
Delicious and cheap. How much better can it get?! Be warned though! There are a ton of Halal Carts all over NYC but the guys at 53rd and 6th are by far the best. I made the mistake of trying out a different cart on one of my trips to New York and there is just no comparison. I always get the lamb plate when I come here. It is (in my opinion) so much better than the chicken plate that they are famous for. The lamb is a lot more tender, moist, and flavorful and for people who hate that distinct lamb taste, there is none!. It really just tastes like the marinade and the sauce. With the lamb, you get a ton of rice, a small salad (if you can call it that. it really is just some lettuce and one or two slices of tomato but you will need it to drench the heat from the red sauce) and some naan. And then they will ask you if you want sauce. SAY YES. their white sauce is the best (and probably the fattiest) sauce I have ever had. It is most likely mayo with some spices in it, but it goes great with their super spicy red sauce (go easy on this because it is HOT). The last time I came to New York with my boyfriend, we came here two times in four days (and each plate is enough food for two meals). It literally is just a cart on the side of the street so there is no seating but there is a starbucks close by so if it raining outside (like it was one of the days we went), you can duck inside the starbucks and enjoy there. Don't worry about going to the wrong cart, just walk in the area and you will see the line of people in front of the right one.
if your looking for the best hala stand in nyc, this is the place to be! don't mind the drunk people standing on line, hey I might be one of them lol
I've become very picky with my street meat as more halal trucks have opened up in the city but this is THE halal spot as everyone claims. ?I went last night for the first time ever and to our luck, the line was short and the wait was less than 5 minutes. ?I noticed it was $6 and while it's cheap, I initially thought it was a bit overpriced for halal. ?My usual go to is Rafiqi's and their chicken over rice is $5.25. ?But little did I know that these guys on 53rd hook you up in portions. ?As soon as I ordered, the food was in my hands. ?According to my friend, his theory why this place is so good is because you're normally drunk and two, they have so many customers that their meats are always fresh and juicy. ?I think he may be onto something. ?The sauces here are all self serve. ?Make sure to get a good amount of white sauce but don't oversauce. ?And beware of the hot sauce. ?Yes, they provide a warning and of course you think you can handle hot but their sauce is EXTREMELY hot.
If you are in NYC you HAVE to go here! Once again I could not make up my mind about what to order -- so I went with a 1/2 chicken and 1/2 falafel plate. PERFECT CHOICE! They prepare your dish right in front of you with a smile. They are extremely friendly and are happy to customize your order a bit. When they warn you that the red sauce is spicy, believe them! It has a good kick to it and if you love spicy like I do then you'll be fine, but if you don't handle spicy well then I would suggest you ask for the sauce on the side! Our server pointed us to seats across the street where they had placed tables/chairs.
Toss a plate in my coffin so my soul can rest in peace. Everyone I know and introduced to this, loves the food.. It's that damn good, no debating and cheap.
I totally did not get the hype, what was so great about chicken and rice with yogurt and spicy sauce?? Now I do!! The rice and chicken was nicely seasoned, the yogurt sauce was light and refreshing and the red sauce was SUPER SPICY!!! All of which I enjoyed and together, was the perfect combination. Will definitely be back when I'm in NY again
Love the falafel!
The taste is kind of like the halal cart around the columbus circle, but it's still great. I have the mix one. There are some fake carts around every corner. Just find the one with most people. That's the real one. The portion is really huge and it's enough for two normal girls. If I would be near the Moma, I will definitely try it again.
I don't care for street food too much, but the line is worth it! Defintiely make it there if you're in NYC!
Best food cart for halal foods. Chicken over rice is honestly the best here out of all the food carts.
Even my finicky eight year old said it was fantastic. Definitely large enough to share between two people. Don't forget to save room for a soft serve after!
I was super excited to try this place during my recent trip to NYC, but I think people may have overhyped it for me. ?As my boyfriend said before "It's not your kind of food", and he was right. I don't see what's so good about this place, Maybe if I was drunk I'd enjoy it more. ?It's just chicken, rice, lettuce, white and red spicy sauce, and soggy pita bread. But they do give a lot of food for $6, so that's a good deal. Be careful of that red sauce though, it was so spicy. ?I put that whole little container, and I was dying and couldn't finish my plate. Good for quick cheap food & something to try when visiting NYC.
The chicken and rice plate is definitely a unique street food item I haven't seen in the west coast. ?For $6, you get like an 8-inch pie pan of rice with sliced chicken, gyro, and lettuce over rice, and you can top this off with the infamous white sauce or red sauce which is spicy. ? I gotta say, though, this is more like 3.5 stars for me. ?Don't get me wrong; it was delicious and flavorful, and I would come back again. ?But the dish really needed more texture (which I hoped the lettuce would help out with, but it didn't help enough). ?I would probably love this more if I had it while drunk and if it was past midnight. Also, one pie pan of this is really enough to feed 2 people. ?The value is pretty great, and when you're blowing a bunch of money for a weekend in NYC, paying $6 to feed two people is fantastic. PROTIP: if you're from the Bay Area, pack some La Vic's orange sauce into your check-in luggage so you can eat it with chicken and rice. ?YOU'RE WELCOME.
SO I just waited on line for about 25 minutes on my lunch break, in heels, and I was saying to myself, "What am I doing here? There is another halal cart across the street..." But no. I waited on that line, and scarfed it down in 15 minutes while watching people wait on-line for the MOMA. Get the BBQ sauce. ?So worth it.
Street food is the future! ?Chicken over rice with lettuce, white sauce, and super spicy hot sauce for you to add as needed sets a new standard for Halal carts. ?This place is really head and shoulders above the rest. ?They give you extra sauce, free grocery bags, and the long line moves quickly. ?Unlike other places this gives you plenty of chicken. ?I love the lamb gyro mixed with the chicken. ?Cooking is about quality ingredients, preparation, understanding surface area and having good instincts. ?The portions are large enough to share. ?This place qualifies for All-Madden status. ?It reminds me a little of Chicken Madnus for all you Hoyas! ?Eat it hot and fresh! ?Sitting across from Radio City Music Hall with people from all over the globe eating chicken & rice with wonderful white sauce and hot spice to your taste! ?It doesn't get any better than this!
Wow...I saw cabbies lined up to eat here and thought "has to be good". ?I was wrong it was not good....it was GREAT! ?Massive portions on the cheap and we ended up eating here 4 times in one week. ?The food smell must have filled the lobby and elevator of the Hilton because we got 3 orders to go each time. ?I absolutely eat here every time I am in NY.....even if I have to walk a long. ?Skip the tourist places...follow the cabbie lines...My NY favorite.
Great place, cheap and the food is delicious. I had the lamb and chicken over rice and it was super good. Their white sauce is very tasty and compliments their food....this has a some what long line depending when you arrive, but remember that they do have some extra carts at each corner of the same block....you can get it where the line is short and also get your drinks there. not that many tourist, so no people taking too many pics, undecided about their food and wasting everyone's time by holding hands while walking and blocking you from passing....
Chicken and Lamb over Rice combo $6 LOTS of white sauce One line of red hot sauce Mix it all together = ADDICTINGLY AMAZING GOODNESS. ? I got Halal Cart 4/5 days on my NYC trip...........just sayin.
There are few times that you walk away from a Halal cart and just same "damn." Actually it only happens at one place and this is it. Simply put, it's the best Halal food. Period. It competes with restaurants around the area and is only $6!! If you're traveling or have friends that are, it would be a shame not to partake in this NYC staple! Enjoy. Enjoy. Enjoy.
If there's a long line... it's usually a good sign. ?This is one of those must try joints. ?It's extremely affordable and satisfying. ?Jut beware that there are two different halal guys that pop up at this location. The original halal guys normally arrive around 6, the lunch time halal guys are different. Not bad, but definitely not like the original. Check it out yourself, totally worth it!
4000th review woohoo!! This place is great. The price is reasonable, the food is delicious and the portions are huge. Don't miss out, bring a few bucks and enjoy. Watch out for the hot sauce! Its hotter than the sun.
The quality of the food, the amount of the food, and the price average to a 3 or a 4. Its a bit overhyped. Just really good food cart food. The food isn't extremely amazing, but its $6 and really tasty. You basically have a choice between chicken, gyro, a combo of chicken and gyro, and falafel. Pretty nice because I can take my vegetarian friend here too. Line wasn't too insane, but it was still there. I usually go here a few times a month. WARNING: The red sauce will ruin your meal if you get more than a dot. Unless you like obnoxiously spicy sauce. Its about 10x+ hotter than Tabasco and a bit hotter than a Habanero. The real purpose of it is to just be mixed in with the white sauce I'm pretty sure.
Chicken and gyro mix. Extra EXTRA white sauce, Extra Extra Extra hot sauce. They give you a lot so technically it's enough to share, but who would want to anyway? This is just one little review among the thousand 5 stars. ?Remember, there are 3-4 locations just across the street from each other, and they're ALL the halal guys. ?Don't make the noobie mistake of going to the longest line because they're all the same place, just different corners. ?But don't mistaken, there's only ONE (or 3) Halal Guys and you can only get it at this corner. Don't get the imposters. It's NOT the same, AND they don't give you as much either.
Don't know what the fuss and hype is about. ?Portions are big, hearty.
Good price, good food. Cant go wrong with that!
My husband and I visit "The Halal Guys" late nights when we are too lazy to cook up something at home and if we are at that area (53rd & 6th). We both have our separate plates even though both are combos. People who are hungry and can eat a whole bowl of rice, they should definitely go to this place. If no one can chow down a plate of rice then they should find someone to share one plate with. The white sauce is delicious but the hot sauce is beyond tongue burning. I personally love Jamaican hot peppers and this was beyond hot but if mixed with the white sauce then the combination is just perfect. I can have this cart food from The Halal Guys all day everyday, that's how good it is.
It's not even that special, but something keeps me coming back every time I'm in NY.
I have had it brought to me at school but let me tell you this is the best halal food I have tasted in my life! Sooo Good!! I thought people were exaggerating when they raved about their food but believe them!! Seriously the mixed plate with lamb & chicken with the white sauce? Delicious! I prefer the lamb though because it's more flavorful! I'm also not a fan of the hot sauce ! The rice could be cooked more but it's delicious nonetheless!!
the best of the best chicken & rice dish
What more can I say about the Halal cart that hasn't been said already? Get the chicken and rice. We were actually kinda joking about this. Can't decide what to order? It's either chicken and rice or rice and chicken. Haha. Actually, that's not accurate because they have lamb, too. I personally had the combo chicken and lamb with rice. I liked both meats, so I would recommend the combo. The red sauce is spicy. The white sauce is not. The white sauce is more like a ranch-like yogurt sauce, but possibly mayo based. It has that creamy, thicker texture. But it's good! If you come in the early evening (say, pre-drinking), the lines are not very long. I haven't experienced the late night crowds. Large portions for $6! This will definitely cure drunken munchies or make two, maybe even three, regular meals. And I kinda feel sorry for the guy selling purses right next to the Halal cart. Nobody wants knock off purses, they just want their chicken and rice!
Pretty good deal all around despite the obviously imported pita bread. Although, after trekking from downtown Brooklyn to 53rd in below freezing weather and then waiting in a half-an-hour-line, I would've devoured anything hot enough to defrost my throat and better-tasting-than-rubber.
the go to spot in mid town. chicken over rice w extra of that yummy white sauce and hot sauce. BEWARE! Hot sauce is extremely hot- I dare you to use 2 small containers of it. I live in NYC and you'd think I'd be tired of this place now but it's so damn disgustingly delicious!!!
Out of all the things I ate on my recent trip to New York, this definitely was one of the most memorable. ?It's a ton of food for $6 and it hits the spot. ?The white sauce is like if ranch, yogurt, and mayo had a child, and for some reason when you mix it all together with a little bit of hot sauce it's just really satisfying. ?We waited in a bit of a line, but I thoroughly enjoyed it. ?I got the chicken and rice, and I would recommend getting extra pita bread, the combination is really good.
Chicken Over Rice! That is all that needs to be said. No other cart will compare with this one. ?Don't be fooled by the pretenders, directions are all in the name ;) The chicken over rice is only $6 and they aren't shy about filling up your plate. ?Service is fast and you can choose you own spiciness level. ?If things get too spicy, the yogurt sauce will balance out your taste buds. Get it to go or there are tables across the street to sit at. Always a must in NY. Craving it now! DROOOOLLLLSSSS!!!!
No better place to go to when in MID after the club or other late night debauchery. A must go for all rookies!
Four stars if you're drunk, two if you're sober.
After reading all the yelp reviews, I couldn't wait to try this "special" Halal cart. ?The chicken over rice was ?good - but maybe a tad overrated. ?The line was somewhat long, but it moved rather quickly. The food was tasty - but so was the food from the other Halal carts ?around the city. I'm glad I tried it - but won't necessarily go out of my way to try it again.
Simply delicious.
Weird that a Halal cart could be touristy, but it kind of is. ?Nonetheless, fantastic. ?The plates with rice and pita are a ton of food for very cheap, and it's delicious. ? (White sauce is killer, btw -- get extra.)
I used to work across the street from these street meat guys. ?There's usually a ridiculously long wait, but what most people don't know is that the OTHER street meat guy around the corner is the same company. ?I've tried their food and it didn't blow me away. ?I actually like other street meat vendors better because they have chunks of meat whereas this vendor's meat is broken up into shredded pieces. ? Most of the line is made up of tourists anyway. ?The wait is probably around 30-45 minutes during lunch time or dinner. ?Good luck.
Cheap, large portion, fast. Oh man it's soooo good. No complaints.
I feel like I've reviewed this one before, but what the heck. ?This is the best chicken and/or lamb and rice in NYC. ?Don't be fooled by the fakes. ?The other vendors suffer from cart envy and will lie to you. ?From 7pm-4am, they (the real Halal Guys) are located on the SW corner of 53rd and 6th Ave. ?The do have a sister cart that is located on the SE corner of 53rd and 6th during the lunch hours. ?Often you can go there for a shorter line at night as well. ?I think they stop serving at midnight on that corner. ?Don't quote me on that. If you ask me the SW 53 & 6th is the best. ?Be prepared to wait in line for 30-45 min (possibly longer). ?It is worth your while, and the food is hotter and fresher due to the high turnover. ?If you live in the area or are staying in a hotel nearby, take it home with you after the club/bar late night. ?You can eat it at the location as many people do by the fountain, but this dish is better at home as you can ask for the "to go" red and white sauces. If you ask nicely, you can get two of each. ?Beware the red sauce as it is flame thrower hot before you realize it. ?Make sure you have ample white sauce and a cold drink to put out the flames. ?This place is so good that, even after I moved to Hoboken, I'd take the PATH and B,D,F,M ?subway lines late night and wait just to score this delectable late night treat. ?You may want to buy two, one for tonight and one for tomorrow morning. If you get there around 7pm (I used to work nearby) be prepared to wait 30 min even if you are first in line. ?They take that time to cook the tender, melt in your mouth fresh bites. ?The best time to go is when it's a little rainy out to scare some of the tourists or fair weather folks away. ?The food is phenomenal and cheap ($6 gets you chicken and/or lamb with yellow rice, pita triangles, ?and some lettuce in a restaurant takeout tin). ?Mix them all together with the sauce and get ready for a party your mouth won't forget. ?I believe they are Zagat rated and won many food cart awards. ?The ingredients may seem humdrum, but don't sleep on this place. ?I'm not sure what they put in the rice or the sauce, but I'm sure it's addictive. When you see that long line at the Hilton stretching around the block, tell the cabbie to let you out. ?You will not regret it, and the line is usually fun with lots of different people to talk to. ?Don't blame me if you have an annoying crew in front of you, but whatever you do, don't lose your spot in line.
- Good For a Late at Night or Lunch - This is awesome and only here you can eat this. one is enough ?for two girls. The Best order is the combination of chicken & ram over ?rice. you can ask them the amount of yogurt & hot sauce whatever you'd like. the reasons why I rated 4 are wishing so muchneed more veggies, and we have to wait in the long line everyday.
There's a bunch of imposters, but there is only ONE 'Original Halal Guys' cart! I always get the chicken & rice with extra white sauce and it never dissapoints my stomach!
I love you guys. I understand that it's overrated but this is the perfect drunk food. Mind you, I always make my way to get chicken&rice when I got to New York. It is a MUST But my only warning is about the hot sauce. In my drunken stupor, I forgot about the spiciness of that legendary red sauce and i poured an entire cup of that into my plate. Bad decision. My poor stomach was burning till the next morning. Greasy, unforgettable, delicious, and cheap food after a night of drinking? You've come to the right place.
$6 for a chicken or lamb (my preference) rice plate big enough to share. It's not the most amazing thing I've tasted but a NY trip is not complete until you've checked into the original Halal Cart!
I never heard of Halal until coming to NYC and researching the places I needed to make my way to for a delicious bit to eat. What was one of the first things I discovered? I came upon chicken and/or lamb over rice, a little bit of lettuce, perhaps a slice of tomato, onions and peppers, perhaps some pita bread, and this insanely delicious white sauce. Since arriving in NY I've visited many Halal carts to have chicken and lamb over rice. From my extensive research I can tell you that all of them aren't created equal. To report to you the result of the studies, take your tail to see the Halal Guys. I heard their lines can get legendary and therefore was thankful when I saw my targeted cart with a short line. Before I knew it a few moments later, I turned around and suddenly saw about what had to be about fifty people. See, tourist have done their research! Tip: Make sure to pay special attention because there are lots of guys around who aren't the Halal Guys. Tip: Go to 53rd and 7th instead. The Halal Guys have several stands and this particular location's lines are always a lot shorter for the same great food.
I would give this place 6 stars if I could. there's usually a long line esp during the weekend at night BUT it moves quickly and IT'S WORTH EVERY SECOND OF YOUR TIME! everyone should come to this place
I've been here maybe 6 or 7 times now. Sometimes they're not bad, but sometimes they're awesome.
LOVE these guys but I'm very specific. ?I like the ones across from the Hilton, in front of the Starbucks and ONLY before the 6:30 change over to the night shift. Trust me on this one.
This is my FAVORITE halal cart ever. I don't eat from any other anywhere else in the city; it's just not the same. My friend turned me onto this place a few years ago. I went after work one day and got my standard halal order of chicken with rice. The chicken itself was a great revelation: it was huge chunks of chicken unlike what you find at other carts. The rice was delicious and the guy working liberally splashed my dish with the red and white sauces, PLUS pita! No other cart gives you pita (that I know of). All that for $5. Can't beat it! Depending on when you go, the lines can be long, but they always move quickly because their demand is so high. They've kinda mastered efficiency.
I like that Yelp is starting to take shots in the dark as to where you've been. Fine, i'll humor you Yelp! *Opens up Yelp * You Next Review Awaits 53rd & 6th Halal Cart "Have you been ?" Of course I've been! This place always has a longgggg line at night. People looking for that perfect greasy fix after a night of drinking and debauchery. For about 6 bucks you can get a choice of chicken/beef/lamb or a combo. Comes with a pita and rice. The star of the show is that white sauce. Straight crack. Be easy on the red sauce thou, really really strong stuff. Comedian Jo Koy explained it best in one of his stand up routines - " no one gives a fck about the chicken" "no one gives a fck about the rice" " it's that motherfckin WHITE SAUCE" youtube.com/watch?v=4kFq?
Photos don't do this place justice. Chicken, lamb gyro, and rice? That sounds like something you could get at any Mediterranean restaurant. What really brings this place together are the sauces. I've yet to come across a white sauce as delicious and creamy as 53rd & 6th's. It's creamy, yogurt-like, but without any of the tartness (and the gross cucumbers bits) that many other places have. I swear that it must be spiked with mayo. Add in a dash of spicy sauce (careful: it's super hot) and you've got something that reminds me of a good spicy tuna roll sauce. There's really nothing like this on the West Coast.
This stuff is gross when you are sober, but heavenly gross when you are otherwise.
3000+ Reviews on Yelp for a food cart?? New York Madness. So I had to try it. We had just finished our Broadway show of Jersey Boys and I was starving. Walked down a few streets... the location is pretty self explanatory. 53rd and 6th. We passed several other food carts on the way... wasn't sure if it was it. We thought if we saw it we would know. And surely enough... The only cart we've seen with a long line. The line wasn't too bad. But you can tell by the looks of it. This cart was the one. There were about four others adjacent to it on the same block, but only this one had a line. Their sign read "Halal Guys." So the first things I saw on Yelp were "Chicken over rice" and "lots of white sauce." That's what I got. And yup it was as good as the 3000 reviews says it was. Lots of shredded meat over orange looking rice with some lettuce/cabbage on the side. The white sauce was great. So was the bbq. Didn't try the hot sauce but my friend says it was very very HOT. Also tried some of my friends gyro (lamb). It was a bit more saltier and flavorful, but I think I preferred the chicken more. The bowl was easy to eat and go. They also have caps that you can put over the foil/aluminum bowl and take home. I was impressed. Stellar New York Street Food from a Cart. CHECK. Bring CASH.
The original CnR! Great cart food. Every other one is a fake so only go to this one. $6 platters.
Came here one night around 1am and there were about 50 people in line. ?The line moves fast, so the wait was only around 10-ish mins. ?The workers are not friendly, but they are fast and efficient. ?You tell the first guy what you want and you move down the line. 10 seconds later they hand you your food and tell you that sauce is around the other side of the cart. ?Thats it. ?No "thank you, come again" because they know that once you try it, you'll be back. The chicken over rice is good, add lots of white sauce (learned from my friend who added about 3x the amount that I added to my plate), and the spicy sauce is actually very spicy. ?They also have BBQ sauce, for you people who like that with your Halal... Overall, its cheap, fast, flavorful and filling. ?What more do you need after a night out?
what else to say.... I like both the chicken and lamb over rice. Prefer lamb, but they offer combination at the same price. Easy decisions.
If you can get the ?freshly chopped up meat, it is great. If the meat has been sitting around for a bit, it's okay. My go to sauce is hot, white and bbq. If you haven't had platters without BBQ sauce you are missing out. ?Give it a try next time.
One of the best street food I've had and I'm comparing this to street food in Taiwan! Ordered the lamb and chicken combo, 1 order was abundant and shareable with 2 people and we loved every single bite!
If you're on the run, and you have no time to sit down somewhere to eat, and you happened to be walking by this place, its perfectly fine.. The lamb is a bit salty, but other than that its pretty good, for what it is.. They do not carry tomatoes anymore, which takes away from the gyro pita overall taste.. ?However, I can't see anyone that is not completely drunk while eating here thinking this food is something to rant about.
Some of my students clued me in that these guys do fundraisers at various east coast colleges, where you can pre-order a meal and have some of the proceeds go to support an urban youth non-profit (thesupply.org/candr). I have no idea how this got started or whether it's actually working. I do know that it means I got a combo with rice delivered to my campus and didn't have to get to NYC and wait in line at a cart, which was pretty sweet. Anyway, this was my first Halal Guys experience, and now I crave it. I'm usually averse to "mystery sauces," but decided to risk it and try the white sauce, and it really elevates the meat/rice. I'm a hot sauce wimp, so I have no idea how that is, but I don't feel like I'm missing anything by not having it. The pita was moist and tasty, the meat was flavorful, the portion was generous, and hopefully, some kids are reaping the benefits of this fundraising venture.
OMG! Might as well given me crack.... This is definitely cheaper though. ?Don't bother with other halal food trucks. ?The lines might be long, butThe Halal Guys is worth the wait.
My One Word: Fast. Fact #1: The person taking the order was a tad rude because he was trying to speed things up... like calm down, bro. Fact #2: The portions are great! Bonus points for value and great tasting food! Fact #3: I am really good with spicy stuff but even to me the red sauce is super duper spicy... it is one of those that lingers in your mouth! Watch out!
This has to be the most overrated food on yelp. I threw my food away after only a few bites after driving from the lower east side and hunting for an ATM for half an hour.
After my last class, I trotted downtown to 53rd and 6th to see a surprisingly short line at around 4pm. Food was prepared so quickly and efficiently, but I took away one star for the cleanliness. It was only my second time trying The Halal Guys today. I ordered chicken over rice with white and BBQ sauce this time around. Boy, it was ten times better than I remembered from the first time. The first bite is always the best... mmm it was beyond delicious! I was basically starving the entire day, but I ended up not being able to finish it because they gave so many portions. It's a pretty good deal considering it was only $6!!! Six dollars on the Upper East Side won't even buy me a sandwich. A+++ A tip for next time is to grab sauces on the side because they add the sauces last so they're not equally distributed within your meal!!
If you're ever drunk in NYC at 4am you have to go! Ok, so you don't have to be drunk, but it does taste just that much better. It's open super late- til 6am I think. The line will probably be long but it's worth it. Apparently they have a second cart on that same block, but good luck figuring out which one it is--there's like 8 of them. Anyways, get the hot sauce but BEWARE! It is really spicy and if you're not careful, you'll be paying for it the next day if ya know what I mean ;)
I've only come here in non-sober states of mind, but it's pretty good.
This place used to be the best....the food is still pretty good but I feel they have gone down a notch in taste. That said, it still fills the stomach and craving for some legit cart food. Love the white sauce! For those who like their food spicy with an extra kick, the red sauce is the way to go.
Believe the hype. I dragged my friends here because people kept insisting that it was a must-go-to spot in NYC... and it turns out they were quite correct. We went on a random weekday night so the lines were horrendous or anything. Got in line and our orders in within ten minutes. The guys are super nice and quick with the service. That red sauce is SO amazingly good. When people warn you of spice, I always brush it off, but that sauce is legit. Freaking delicious. I wish there was one of these carts on the West Coast.
Yummy AND cheap. Make sure you go the right guys!! I made the mistake of buying from a cart literally one street away and as I kept walking, I realized what I had done. I seriously wanted to punch myself in the face. It was so cold though, my nose probably would have broken right off, and I can't afford going to the emergency room right now. So I just had to buy one from these guys too and conducted a little taste test of my own. The verdict? They really are different! I don't know why or how. They're just better.
Best Lamb over rice in NYC with huge portions all for $6 bucks. Be warned there maybe a 15-20 mins wait if you go later at night.
Its amazing how such a simple dish priced at a meager $6 can taste sooo goooooooddd! There are three carts around the same corner selling the exact same food, so go for the one that has a shorter line. However, there are some fake ones too around the block so make sure you get the real deal. Their hot sauce is extremely spicy, like its going to burn on the way in, burn on the way out, so use with caution. The night was cold, so I took extra hot sauce and believe me, it warmed me up big time and I started sweating. Anyways, make sure to give this place a try, line may be long but it moves extremely fast.
My hotel was half a block away. In a 4 day, 3 night trip I came here 3 times. This was the last meal of my NY trip. Mixed plate, white sauce, a dash of hot. This is the perfect late night, indulgent meal. I want it again NOW.
An utter godsend for midtown grub! And the one across the street is pretty much identical. Tons of yummy food for the $.
Absolutely delicious. I honestly love this place. Only go after 10, and get extra white sauce!
Even in the cold night at 3 am, the halal guys are there and ready to serve. The chicken is well cooked and spicy. The chef was nice and friendly. He served us with a smile.
You know, I'm not going to write about how AMAZING this place is but I will write that you should take this amazing HALAL food to the city of ANGELS and rival the ghetto dogs of Holly-hood. Personally, I would have halal cart everyday over the ghetto dogs in LA when drunk. So please spread the love and bring it out to the west... it's awaiting you or maybe start a food truck war... who needs more asian fusion tacos!! Don't forget the white sauce... it ain't the same without it. =)
I swear, this is the best $6 you will spend in all of overpriced Manhattan. 3000+ reviews and a 5-star rating is seriously unheard of in Yelpdom. For all the haters: come on now, this isn't the Gramercy Tavern - it's street fucking food served from a roadside cart! Anyways, if this is your first time visiting these guys, just look for the fellows in yellow. I think that rhyme is a little bit of Jay-Z rubbing off on me... or not. Now you may get confused though because these guys are located on the southwest corner, the southeast corner, further west along 53rd, and on the corner of 53rd and 7th. It really doesn't matter since they are all owned by the same owner. However, I must say that I prefer the cart at the southeast corner of 53rd and 6th because there is a little eating area about 50 feet to the east as well as a phone booth that I ended up eating at to shield myself from the freezing gusts of wind. $6 and an extra buck for a canned soda will get you a bowl of orange rice topped with chicken, pita bread slices and iceberg lettuce. They also packaged me two white sauce containers filled with a yogurty sauce and two containers of the spicy red sauce that was so spicy that I knew I would regret it in the morning... ?and I did. I ended up dumping everything together and just inhaled the savory dish like a Dyson vacuum. While the hodgepodge of orange (rice), brown (chicken), green (lettuce), white and red (sauces) looked like the aftermath of a cab running over an oompa loompa, I didn't give a shit about the way my food looked because it seriously tasted amazing. In an era of pretentious food trucks overcharging for shit, it's refreshing to see that the Halal guys are staying humble. And, I still find it astonishing that despite the shit economy caused by those crooks on the south side of the island, the ever-rising gas prices, inflation, etc... the Halal Guys still sell their delicious chicken and rice plate at a reasonable cost. If only I could have kidnapped one of the guys and brought them over to LA with me... damn those millimeter wave screeners at JFK. Halal Guys, Gyro and Chicken, 53rd and 6th, or whatever the fuck you guys call yourselves, I will definitely be back. BTW, I think that instead of going to some no-name shawarma restaurant, the Avengers should have been shown eating some chicken and rice on 53rd. Then again, what does Hollywood know about NYC? Hours: 53rd St & 6th Ave "Original Location" (in front of Hilton) / 7pm to 4am 53rd St & 6th Ave ?(across 6th Ave from above location) /10am to 5am 53rd St & 7th Ave / 10am to 5am Picture: Picture of the phonebooth and the chicken bowl where I dined in below-freezing temps: bit.ly/11NaHsv
I always eat here every time I am in NY. LOVE their CHICKEN & RICE!!! Can't get enough of it! Love their white and red sauce! The red sauce is extremely spicy, BEWARE!!! But I love it! It's good any time of the day but I have to admit, it's the best hang over food there is! Always a line but never a disappointment! :)
Just wanted to add my two cents since everything that needed to be said has been said, but this is hands down the best late night food if you have an appetite. Combo platter over rice with the pita bread and plenty of white sauce (the hot sauce is daring). Notes: go after 8pm, it's on the southwest corner (there are carts all around that look the same)
They definitely fulfill their claim that they are different, because I am still craving this a year later! I had the chicken & rice with extra white sauce and boy was it delish. ?My friend and I were looking for this cart and saw one across the street that had this loooooong line. ?But, the one on our side of our street had zero people, so I suppose we lucked out? ?For under $6, it was sooo worth it. ?Everything was tasty and cooked on point. ? Like I said, still craving it after a year - they sure are different!
Can't be beat for price and quality of food for $6. Its always the first meal I crave in NYC. Load up the white sauce, and you're good to go.
1. ?Get really drunk or 420. 2. ?Come at 4am 3. ?Get chicken and rice 4. ?Smother it in red and white sauce. 5. ?Pig out. 6. ?Pass out. Perfection. Night complete.
Only in the city can you party until 4am, get some chicken and rice, then enjoy while the sun rises....extra white sauce with a little bit of red.
As you can see this is not just a tourist ploy, it is one of gods gifts to this earth at a reasonable, affordable price in which everyone can share the breath of joy and wealth. Beware: of toilet aftermath though...
For Halal Carts - it gets 4 stars compared to other carts...but, the taste has not been as good - compared to how it used to be a year ago. Still, the portion is much larger than other carts, quality is slightly better and the freshness of the salad and rice are still good. Hot sauce is unbelievable! I crave Halal guys regularly and it tastes even better after drinking! There's a cart on 53rd and 5th - also...which nobody is really aware of.
so good!!
I took my super asian grandparents and my foodie relatives here. They liked it. Enough said.
6 bucks , 5 if you're a hot chick. Solid meal. Fills you up. Sometimes, if you're really really cool, they give you a soda with your chicken n rice. If you don't order extra white sauce, then who are you? I get this probably once every 2 months or so Reco: Chicken and Rice no "salad" and Extra white sauce, and an extra little white sauce on the side.
The food is great and addicting, and you get a crap load of it for only $6. I like the mixed chicken and lamb. You are guaranteed that the food is fresh because of the sheer amount of people ordering it-- they are constantly cooking new batches of meat and rice. However, the serving size is so huge that it's easy for me to want to vomit as I scrape the last few bites out of the foil bowl. I overdid it and ate this two weeks in a row, so now I can only stomach this once every few months.
Don't let the long line defer you from your chicken and lamb, because there is always going to be one. ?But these Halal guys have got it down...they're quick to make so long as you know what you want (not to mention they're pleasant folk)! Six bucks for a massive plate of food? You can't beat that with a stick. ?It being New York, these guys could totally jack up their prices knowing people would still buy their food. ?But they won't. At least I hope they wont. ?Which makes them even more deserving of this 5 star review. Don't skip out on the special white sauce and flamin' hot sauce. ?It makes the dish!
Certainly not your average lamb over rice. But I'd personally recommend having the lamb/chicken combo because chicken does taste better here....and of course, that creamy white sauce that blends in everything perfectly.
It took me quite some time to brave the lines and get past my preconceived notions of "street meat" in order to enjoy some lamb and rice from this classic NYC food cart...... and I've been back 3 times since. I would highly recommend the lamb instead of the chicken and I would also recommend splattering your dish with yogurt, bbq and a TOUCH of the hot sauce as it is quite spicy. Take some to go if you think you'll need more but don't get crazy with it from the get go. SUPER cheap and plenty of spots around to sit and eat it before it gets cold.
It was truly great experience. It is definitely not a Micheline star kind of quality of food but it is very affordable fast dinner in the middle on NYC. I have tried chicken over rice and it was really nice grilled chicken wit some rice and lettuce. The portion size is very generous and for the price of $6, it is definitely a great deal.
The lines are long but the wait is worth it! You need to know exactly what u want at the time f order.They have a little assembly line going on, with food being made at one cart and drinks being sold at the other. Over all, best chicken n rice cart in the city!
How can this place have anything less than 5 stars? Its cheap, convenient, and delicious as fck. The only that disappointed me was that I didnt manage to try it any earlier otherwise it could have been my choice for all meals of the day. I now understand why my friend in NY kept insisting I go eat this and didnt mention anything else. Got the chicken and gyro plate for $6. One of the better deals in NY. Lots of meat and lots of sauce. Just be careful on the amount of red sauce you put on it cuz it definitely has a nice bite to it. To be honest, I dont really know how to review this joint. Before we got to take a bite, a random New Yorker came up and explained it as "tasting heaven". Not gonna lie, he was pretty close about that.
Chicken and lamb over rice combo. Cover it in white sauce and you have a 2 amazingly good meals for $6. But if you want to experience clarity and enlightenment through heat and pain, add enough hot sauce to blanket your white sauce.
its good. you need to go and get some.
best drunk munchies. actually best munchies no matter what time. i love white sauce and bbq sauce mixed together. it's definitely one of those places you want to try when you come to NYC.
So, so good. The line was only 5 minutes last Tuesday night about 10pm. I got the combo lamb/ chicken over rice. Delicious!
For $6, you can't beat the quality of flavors, portion, & convenience. A word of caution with the the hot sauce - a little goes a long way. I usually have a high tolerance for spicy stuff..but boy, did I underestimate their hot sauce! the BBQ sauce is also good, and of course, the white sauce (tastes kinda like ranch). Stopped here after watching Wicked & I'm glad we did. I didn't even finish half of my gyro & chicken bowl. :(
Very good! Went to a comedy show down the steet and needed to eat. Came upon this busy place. Pulled pork sandwhich was delicious. Everything tasted homemade and very flavorfuk. Awesome!
When drunk...mmm great! When sober, ugh ok fine! When Arab. . . totally unacceptable! ? I am not quite sure where the excitable 4+ stars come from! ?Is it good, non-poisonous street meat? ?Yes! ?That it is! ?Is it good Middle-Eastern food? ?Um, HELL NO! Is it mediocre, cheap, fast as hell, ya sure but now with other choices in Midtown, especially when it comes to vendors I would say this place should step up their game. Listen, hustlin' ain't easy. They are fast and not rude, I always fear the Arabic gossip at these food stands but these guys had none, and coming from an Arab, that's impressive. The sheer business that this has become is beyond me. ?They set up and before the lamb hits the flattop, there's already a 10+ people line. ? Truth be told, I need my shawarma/lahma off of the stake, chicken seasoned more and my "white" sauce not watered down. ? Try it out and chalk it up to it being a "New York experience".
It's the best $6 you'll spend in NYC. White sauce is awesome and if you like hot food go for their red chili sauce.
This place is great. ?When I work around there i get their food pretty often. I always prefer the chicken over the lamb, and although I'm not the biggest fan of white sauce, it'd be taboo not to get it. ?And the spicy sauce is mandatory for me too, even though i can only take a little bit of it before my mouth starts to feel it (and I like spicy foods). ? The biggest thing that gets me is that they are an established street meat vendor, so I'm optimistic that their food is safe to eat and won't make me sick afterwards, which I might be 8 for 8 on. ? Also, they keep the line moving which is ideal and they're all very nice people. I never want veggies and they always accommodate!
not my fav
This is a mediocre halal cart that somehow became famous. I don't really get it. It's not that it's bad or anything, but it's no better than the average corner cart. I've been to some that are really good, or that have different menu items. This place just has the standards and doesn't really do them all that spectacularly. Don't get me wrong--I'll still go there if I'm in the neighborhood--but it's definitely not worth the trip.
By far the best of all the Halal trucks I have tried in NYC (and I have tried A LOT). My friend started raving to me about these guys last year, and when we went to NYC a couple of months later, we literally for 45 minutes (by passing I don't know how many other halal trucks) to make it to these guys. I didn't get what the big deal was at first, because seriously after trucing it all over Manhattan that day, I just wanted some food, and I wanted to sit down. But alas, I'm always up to try good food, so I kept walking until she was sure we were at the right spot. The Halal Guys did not disappoint. They had good portions, tasty food, and moved quickly. Prior to this I had only tried a couple of halal trucks so I thought maybe there were others that were just as good as The Halal Guys, and I just hadn't found them yet. Well a year later and I have eaten at oh so many halal trucks around the tri-state area. I was recently in NYC with the same friend again, and really not feeling like tracking down The Halal Guys I convinced her to stop at another truck we were walking past. At the time I thought the truck's food was okay. The portions were a bit small, but that was really my main complaint. The next day my friend convinced me to find the Halal Guys again to refresh my memory on what good halal can be. I had eaten at so many other halal trucks in the last year, she said I was now accepting mediocrity. Well when you're right, you're right. She was so damn right. When we arrived at The Halal Guys spot there was a sign but no truck. There were literally 3 other halal trucks occupying the 3 remaining street corners in the area. One had a extremely long line, one had no one, and the other had a small line. We walked around to all the other trucks, and after a lot of observation realized that none of them were the truck we were looking for. We got in line for the truck with the really long line figuring all these people may know something about this truck that we didn't. We were in the for 10 minutes inching along when we saw The Halal Guys van and cart pull up to the corner we had abandoned. We immediately left our place in the long line and went to line up for The Halal Guys. It was a good thing we did because several people from the line we just left also left as soon as The Halal Guys pulled up. I guess we were all just waiting and settling. We hung out while the fellas set up, and the line behind us grew quickly. It's like someone blew a whistle or something, people were coming out of nowhere rushing to get in line for The Halal Guys. It was a spectacle to see. Once I got my food, I was reminded once again why these fellas really are the BEST at what they do. Everything from the rice (so many halal trucks have extremely bland rice), to the meat, to the sauces all had flavor. You can have sauces on the side or directly on your meal. They have no issue of doing both if you ask for it. I always get the combo meats and both the chicken and halal taste great. In addition to the standard salad fare, you also get bread along with your meal (good stuff). Point blank in terms of cost to meal, you can't go wrong with The Halal Guys if you are craving this kind of food in the city. They really are the best you are going to find.
Pretty good. The line moves really fast. I like the chicken & rice 1,000x better than the falafel sandwich. The falafel was a little stale, but then again, that's not what they are known for. Get the chicken and rice.
With 3 carts all within a few steps of each other and vampire-friendly hours, these guys are hard to miss. Their locations via their website: 53rd St & 6th Ave "Original Location" (in front of Hilton) / 7pm to 4am 53rd St & 6th Ave ?(across 6th Ave from above location) /10am to 5am 53rd St & 7th Ave / 10am to 5am Ordered the chicken over rice & mixed some of the white and red (HOT!) sauce into it = MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMYEAAAAAAAA! Just as good as all the 3000+ reviews say. Just $6! And a Gatorade for $2. $8 for a NYC dinner? WIN. Very speedy service.
I'm crying because I live all the way in Boston and I miss this little gem. As if this cart needs any more reviews. No matter where I am in NYC, I always make my way here to get some lamb/chicken combo with the famous white sauce. I love you 53rd & 6th Halal Cart.
Worth a try. Not my cup of tea but I had to admit the meats were good. My bf is in love with this place, he considers it the best out of all the food places he tried. I am different, not into the white sauce as much as the others do. The red sauce was good, perfect spicy! ?Great meal that definitely will give you the bang for your buck.
Ive been here several times. Every time has been a great experience EXCEPT my last trip here just yesterday. I got there around 12pm and it wasnt as packed as usual. My problem isnt with the food but the service. Usually I grab a mix plate and then get back on line and order a few to-go plates. Never have I been given an issue. What got me was that the server who gave me my plate REPEATEDLY ?refused to give me a packet of white sauce and hot sauce; which is standard when you tell them its for "to-go". What pissed me off was that he actually got in my face about it, kept telling me to pour the sauce on it instead & then rolled his eyes and muttered something under his breath. First off, if doesnt take even 5 secs to grab a packet of sauce. If you dont want to then just leave the packets on the side for people to take themselves. If I asked for "to-go", what makes you think that I want to eat soggy food by putting sauce on it beforehand? Overall, I love the food from this spot. Im going to give it the benefit of the doubt and say my last experience was a fluke.
DEEEEELISH, best street meat I've had - I noticed the chicken gyro I got was mostly white meat too. WARNING ?*hot sauce is HOT* and there are impersonators on the next corner... if you're standing at the cart with the longest line, you got the right one baby... but don't worry the line moves quick and you get a ton of delicious food for around $5!
Once upon a time I included this halal cart in a little thing I called The Holy Trinity (of food) Yes, I was in love. Halal was my everything, I would crave it all the time! Fast forward several years - I still love it, it's still delicious but I don't crave it anymore. Every now and then I'll get a real hankering for it and go all the way there, wait on line for 40 mins and nommmmmm like a starved animal. I think I just ate so much of it that I'm all halaled out! Side note - ?SPICY hot sauce. Do not mess around with it.
Me and my traveling buddy chanced upon this place as we were looking for a quick meal before our bus to Philly, decided on this as it was in the vicinity and highly rated on Yelp. It's very easy to find, just look for the CBS sign on the scaffolding at 53rd and 6th ave. Opening hours on yelp say 7-4 but I've walked past them multiple times at various times in the day and they were always open. First off, this was the ONLY food stand I've seen that actually had a substantial queue at ?3pm in the afternoon. We ordered the Mix Platter, which consisted of a mix of chicken/lamb slices, pita bread and very fresh pieces of cabbage. We only managed to eat our food almost 2 hours later while waiting for our bus to arrive but it still tasted fantastic, and was reasonably warm. We came back another day, bought the food at about 4pm and only ate it 5 hours later, and it still tasted great reheated. So about the food, can't say that I've tasted many variants of this to make a fair comparison, but this was truly mind-blowing the first time I tasted it. The meat was well-seasoned, the rice was nice and fluffy and went very well with the chicken and lamb, the cabbage was really fresh and crisp. I usually try to avoid lamb as I'm not a fan of the game-y taste, but this was free of that and was delicious. Everyone asks for extra white sauce and for a reason- it really enhances the taste of the meats and rice. A red hot sauce is available too, also delicious but add with caution- I'm used to eating rather spicy dishes, and a squeeze of the red sauce by the guy running the stall made it tasty without being unbearable, but the next time I ate it my traveling partner decided to dump 3 saucer/containers' worth of red sauce into the meal and my mouth burned so bad it was hard to appreciate the taste of the meat and rice. ADD WITH CAUTION! Portions are also very reasonable,I had 2 people sharing the platter and it was sufficient as a late lunch. For $6, truly a bargain.
It's no wonder why there's always such a long line at this street food cart. It's cheap and it's good and the portion is enough for two people. It's perfect for after I get off work and don't feel like spending money at a restaurant but also don't feel like cooking.
Great lamb and chicken combos at a great price. ?I am just worried about the sanitary condition. ?After all there is no running water or bathroom.
SIX BUCKS FOR A FILLING MEAL IN NYC! YOU DESERVE TEN STARS! I wish all I could say was yum, but a review requires much more than that. ?Of the things you've got to do in New York is come visit the Halal guys, the value for the meal is excellent here. ?I had the chicken over rice ($6, as are with their other meals). ?It was pretty delicious, ESPECIALLY with the hot sauce, please DO NOT forget the hot sauce. ?Along with the hot sauce, it came with a generous amount of rice & chicken, a pepper or two, some pita bread and yogurt sauce to top it off, nice balance. ?I just ate it. ?It was all a blur. ?A delicious, happy blur. ?And I was happy to find that they had seating across the street, definitely a nice touch! So sit back, relax and have some halal food. ?Be happy.
amazing stuff! i love their halal.. they definitely don't skimp. best in nyc!
'Chicken Rice' is a must eat street food dish in New York even if you're not a street food fan. It is known by many names; some call it the 'Platter', some know it as 'Chicken & Rice' or the 'Gyro Spot. Whatever it is, i'll gladly ditch my Michelin stars just so that i have space for my favorite 'Chicken Rice' in the city. And the only one you should eat at is The Halal Guys on 53rd and 6th in Mid Town (the original). It's not really chicken rice per se, and certainly not the Hainanese or Singaporean Chicken rice that we are familiar with. This is the American Halal food cart sort. Check it out for yourself. The fluffy long grained Basmati rice can be topped with the plainly seasoned grilled chicken and/or the must have heavily flavored lamb loaf bits. Part of the secret to this delicious meal is in the white sauce which is creamy and really helps in neutralizing the crazy hot sauce that they have. Go easy on the hot sauce, it's FIERCE. The pita and lettuce also help to cool the heat. For $6, you get a huge tray of rice with meat. S and i would usually shared a tray and even so we can never finish it all at once. The convenient packaging makes it easy for us to pack it back as supper. The gyro is much tastier than the chicken, which tends to be a little dry. The picky me can never decide if i only wanna do gyro alone so it's always mixed for us. Make sure that you get it from The Halal Guys because there are other food carts that pretend to be them. So here is how you make sure you get the right one. 1. The Halal Guys currently brand their bags, shirts, and carts with the slogan "We Are Different." 2. Their to-go bags are yellow 3. Their logo features a gyro log on a spit (as shown above). Trust me when i say this is THE STREET FOOD of New York City. Eat it like the locals do here. It's just next to Hilton in Mid Town and they now have a few carts all in the same area.
DA BESTTTTTTT! Drunk or sober, the fresh shredded chicken, hot and white sauce will win your heart. I don't eat lamb and even I say theirs is just fantastic! It s HUGE portion for 5-6$ depending on the meat but worth every cent and more. GO GETTIT!
Out of all the halal carts I had tried during my stay in New York, I got to say this was really the best one. My boyfriend got the lamb and chicken over rice and I got the mix chicken gyro and both were very good. The white sauce is amazing and I love their hot sauce! My boyfriend loved it so much that he got into a argument about it with me lol, I would definitely come back during my next trip to NYC.
Heck yeah. ?Especially late at night after a few drinks.
best bang for your buck in nyc hands down. (that and prosperity dumplings, but neither here nor there). there is seriously crack in the white sauce, but the flavor in the meat is unbelievable considering its street food. they also give you a generous portion, though you might be tempted to get seconds if this is your first time. get the combo platter, and be gentle with the hot sauce, i'm korean american and thought i could handle - but no, pride comes before the fall. $6 for a platter that lets be honest, tastes like heaven after a late night in the city. brought many out of towners here, and crazy - but a lot of them name this spot as their favorite place they ate at.
If you want chicken and rice, this is where you go. No other place else is worth mentioning, nor any other words be written.
Oh YELP and New York, you do not disappoint! ?After seeing so many reviews for this place, you know I had to stop by this place on my walk to Central Park! ?Come on, am I a true foodie or what!??? This was my first time having "Halal" although it seemed very similar to a chicken and rice dish from your local Greek place. ?But, it was still different. ?For $6 bucks you get a huge round plate of tender chicken meat with rice and some lettuce topped with their yogurt based sauce. ?Their chicken meat and yellow rice was really good! *Beware, what the other yelpers say is true! Their hot sauce is really HOT! ?Just have some tissue nearby to wipe your runny nose. ? We shared one plate with my sis and cousin. ?Let's just say, we regretted not buying another plate just to have for ourselves. ?Really good stuff! ?Look forward to coming back here when we return to NYC! By the way, my cousin whose from NY and who has tried other Halal, said their halal here is pretty darn good! ?So there you go! ?Approval stamp from a fellow New Yorker!
Such a good deal! ?For only $6, I got the "Mix of Chicken & Gyro Over Rice". ?The serving was big enough for my lunch and dinner. ?The white sauce lent a nice creaminess to mix with the ingredients. ?The hot sauce is actually pretty spicy (not terribly though) - and I'm used to eating spicy foods. ?It's a good thing this cart isn't posted near my apartment or else I'd be tempted to eat here every day!
Awesome meal after a night out.. or even on a normal day! I've been here a ton of times and always get the half and half (half chicken, half lamb). My favorite is the lamb and rice! You can never go wrong with this place! Enjoy! Oh yeah, and I LOVE the white sauce (always get two, if you're on the go!) and be careful with the hot sauce! It's EXTREMELY spicy !!! A few drops are enough for me!
I just moved back from Florida and all I can say is OMG it has been a very long 6 months without the Halal Guys food!! I was having the combo withdraws like a crack a lack trying to get their next hit.!!!This is hands down the real deal and the line can prove that!! ?I'm not sure if the shit fire hot sauce got hotter or I'm just out of practice .. Time to catch up on this yummy food.
It took me 10 years to try this place. Granted, I was vegetarian for many of those years, but it still took me a lot longer than most. Definitely worth the wait! As my time in New York is winding down, I felt the need to eat at this fine fine establishment (truck). I waited in the compulsory line for 40 minutes, and couldn't believe the deliciousness that awaited me at my work cubicle. Somehow, this truck is different. The flavors of the dark meat with their special spices, and that white sauce (oh Lord!) pack a punch. They don't scrimp on the portions, and I have to say that I was utterly, totally, satisfied with the $6 I spent on that meal.
What's great is that it's open till 5am and it's heaven on a plate! 6$ for the plate of chicken and lamb combo and you dump a bunch of white sauce and hot sauce all over it! You probably should eat on an somewhat empty stomach or share with someone cause that plate is kinda big. And it's so good!! I will say that the hot sauce is spicy but not incredibly spicy IMO. The white sauce gotta have crack in it or something! I always come back for more!
This cart was a block from our hotel and I'm sorry we didn't eat their food for every meal on our vacation. ?My husband got the mixed gyro and chicken plate, I got the chicken plate, my sister got the mixed pita sandwich. ?It was more food than we should or could have eaten in a meal. ?Like others, I recommend grabbing a couple extra containers of white sauce and don't eat the chili sauce, carry it with you for personal protection, it makes pepper spray seem like windex. ?I have no idea how they can make a simple dish like grilled chopped chicken taste sooooo good, but I'm craving it like crazy ... we need one of their carts on every corner in America!
I went at night, and the wait wasn't so bad. So far the best halal experience for me in NYC.
I'm coming for you 53rd & 6th Halal Cart! Anytime I know I'm headed to New York this is the first place that pop up into mind (true fatty mentality) This famous chicken and rice is cart is really all that it's hyped up to be. How could you go wrong with such affordable delicious goodness? The wait looks long but when you take that first bite, you forget all about the dreaded waiting in line you just endured. It's open super late too after midnight so you can still have touristy fun and just enjoy it as a late night snack or meal. I always have some left over for the next day and it's still really good :p Some of my friends even went through the missions of bringing it back from New York because it's just THAT GOOD. Tip: Have dollaaaa bills ready to pay and make it quick! You and the people behind you will be happier.
One of the best street food you can get in NYC. I love the hot sauce here. Definitely a must try chicken over rice in town! You will love it
Don't even have to ask me twice. I'm in there like swimwear! When I would go on a break from school, I'd be on the search for halal carts around the city, but not anymore! Halal Guys is THE best cart out there hands down. $6 for a platter of rice, lamb, lettuce, tomato, & pita bread... What could be better than that? This place is especially great when you're drunk. One time I went to a rave in the city and headed over to Halal Guys at (wait for it) 4 am and there were a lot of people! Yes the line is ridiculously long at times, but it actually moves pretty quickly and the wait is totally worth it. Oh one tip, if you're going to put the red hot sauce on your food only put like 5 dabs on it. The first time I tried it I squirted it all over and I ended up buying two water bottles lmao. The taste is good though, but way too spicy for my tolerance. Get over there now, you're missing out!!!
YES. I love these food carts because you get much bigger portions than a lot of other halal carts, but mostly the HOT SAUCE. You heard me. I am a spice freak and normally don't get hot sauce on my halal food because I feel that if you are not sniffling over your food after getting hot sauce put on it, it just ain't right. I am a bit saddened to see that the prices are now $6 and not $5 (it's not really much of a steal anymore), but nonetheless their hot sauce is bomb. I recommend the lamb or beef over the rice with extra white sauce and hot sauce. I think one small squirt is good for people who don't like their spiciness as intense as mine. I like to drown mine in hot sauce, I always pay for it with about 30 minutes of panting and sniffling before I cave and get something sweet like ice cream, but I think it's so worth it. This is not a place to frequent (especially during normal hours when people are out as the lines do get long) if you've got a hankering for cheap delicious halal cart food, but it is something you should try at least once. Unless you don't like hot sauce or don't plan on putting it in your food. Then the prices just aren't worth it. Just go to any old halal food cart/truck/stand and ask for extra white sauce.
No New York trip is complete without stopping by this food cart! Everything has probably already been said about how amazing this place is but I will tell you my two cents anyway. Remember, this is not the same as other Halal carts you'll see on the streets of NY. Indeed, they are different! This one is specifically located on 6th and W 53rd where the CBS building is. Look for the red and yellow umbrella, guys wearing yellow shirts, and their yellow plastic bags which reads THE HALAL GUYS. If you've seen all three and perhaps a long line, you know you've found the place! Line goes fast so don't worry. If by chance you'll have to wait, trust me, it's worth every minute of your life. The food...oh heavens! IT IS TO DIE FOR!!! I normally get the combo which is gyro and chicken with rice, slices of pita bread, some lettuce, and finally their special white garlic sauce. It's the bomb! I always get extra white sauce on the side because I can literally down that thing. Their hot sauce is really spicy so add it gradually to make sure it suits your taste buds. One order is plenty but it's extremely fantastic that no matter how small your appetite is, you'll be sure to want your own. There's no way I'm sharing mine! For $6 a plate in Manhattan, seriously, it's crazy-cheap! I've had so much good food on this trip and this one ranks really high on my list if not number one. Can you guys please open one here in LA or OC??? Please?!?
Best HALAL cart in the city!
It's a kebab van. In New York. And it ain't bad.
honestly not sure the difference is between this and other halal carts. food only marginally better
Tasty gyros for $4. Go for the lamb gyro. The chicken is okay but the lamb is the winner. And watch out for that hot sauce. Your nose will be running in no time.
Hats off to The Halal Guys for: 1. serving fresh, hot, and delicious gyro rice plates and 2. having great attitudes and service. Do not fool yourself and go to a generic cart...be on the look out for this original location - never disappoints.
Obviously popular based on the lines alone which start forming before they even start cooking. ?I got half chicken and half lamb (no additional cost) - came with a big portion of rice, meat, salad, and slices of pita bread. ?The serving is enough for almost two people and the price can't be beat! I liked the chicken much better than the lamb because it's much more flavorful vs the lamb which is on the saltier side and doesn't have that distinctive lamb flavor.
I enjoy (somehow) crawling over here after many a night out, but nearly everything about this operation is overstated. 1. The wait is not nearly as legendary as everyone makes it out to be. ?I've never waited more than maybe 5 minutes, with visits ranging from 1am to 4am. ?In fact, usually I walk up, and by the time I'm finished walking the length of the cart, my food is ready for me. 2. The hot sauce is pretty darn hot, though not intolerable for spice freaks. ?However, I will say that the weak-boweled would be well-advised to steer completely clear (I have heard next-day horror stories and completely beieve them). ?Use sparingly. 3. It's not all that. ?The meat is consistently dry, as is the rice. ?The veggies could be a lot more crisp and fresher. ?It does the trick after a night out, but even heavy doses of alcohol have proven incapable of painting over these shortcomings.
Solid halal spot. I had the lamb and rice, my friend had the chicken. Both were well seasoned and tasty, but the wait is long. Price is reasonable given it's street food. You add your own hot sauce, and their hot sauce is HOT!!! So consider yourself warned! There are lots of halal street vendors in the city, I'm sure locals have their personal favorites. However, if you are a tourist with only a few days in town, and you want to hit a halal street vendor, this is a dependable place to go.
It's okay. what does halal mean anyway?
Sorry but I think this is over hyped! When we visited NYC during the summer my friend said she HAD to try this so we made our way out to search for the authentic cart (there's a bunch of copy cat carts all around NYC) around 8p. We found it and the line wasn't that long. Honestly my friends and I weren't that impressed. I think the food tastes too bland, and the white sauce was also bland. Maybe it tastes better if you are drunk? Lol
Fast cheap delicious, open all day, open late, ridiculous white sauce. No other chicken and rice cart in NYC can compare and I have yet to find one that beats 53+6th. I would give them 10 stars if I could.
Look, obviously everything tastes great when you are intoxicated!, however even on a nice sunny afternoon, taking a stroll around 53rd (by stroll i mean 20 blocks from my office), this specific cart, which is open 27/4, how conv. is absolutely delicious. and the guys in the window is just a gentleman!!
I miss you halal cart and I can't wait till I come back to nyc so I can eat here and take some back to go.
Ask for just a little hot sauce or none at all -- or else you'll be sorry you asked at all.
Goood food for late night when your leaving the club or bar, you can't go wrong for 7 bucks a plate nice hot food to soak up all the alcohol.
definitely top 3 halal carts in the city. even though chicken and lamb are both ground up to pieces, it still has such unique taste to it which everybody knows as the halal taste, that you can't go wrong. Certainly sets the standard for halals for normal street cart eaters like me. awesome.
We stay at the Hilton across the street from this gem of a food cart, so we're always close by for a delicious late nigh bite! Each time we visit the city, we designate one night to have dinner from here. Heading back in April and can't wait!
Here all the time. Doesn't get better when it comes to halal food. Order anything, and make sure there is plenty of white sauce and a bit of the hot sauce (caution: EXTEREMELY SPICY)
You can't beat street cart food and when it's this good and this cheap, you've hit the motherload!!!! Love this spot!! Great dish for $6. I always get the combo, with extra pita. It will last for two meals, but I've finished it in one sitting a time or two. ? Anyone who considers themselves a true foodie must try this place at least once. ? There are alot of immitators out there, but only one Halal Brothers on 53rd and 6th across from the Hilton Hotel. Manga!!
Greasy yet dry, smothered in nasty white sauce.
Mixed Platter with White and BBQ Sauce. You won't regret it. There only is outdoor seating. It's not a restaurant, it is literally a cart sitting on the side of the side-walk.
OK, don't get hysterical on me people, but I just do not get the hype. The local NYC-ers told me that you have to be drunk to really enjoy and appreciate the mass amount of food per order. I didn't hear about the requirement of inebriation until AFTER I ate (soberly) so I was uber disappointed. The proportion of food to price was unbelievable though, I do have to give that to them. We (the three of us) each had our own plate, but man we could not finish it. Two could have been easily shared by the three of us (although I do have a small appetite). I'll have to try it drunk next time. So dang, should have checked Yelp reviews closer. Note: this cart is the real deal. I was surprised to learn that all the other ones are just trying to get in on the action! The same guys are also across the street, but I forgot which one. That's not very helpful is it? I'll just leave this in anyway.
Perfect!
I get the hype now. $6 for a gigantic plate of food? And the white sauce mixed with the red sauce (impossible to eat that red sauce on its own! and I love spicy) is so good. I don't know if I liked it so much because I had some liquor in me, but that's when people usually go to this place anyway, right?
For street food this is a decent option. At six dollars per plate, you can't beat the price. I like that they keep the sauces on the side of the cart so you can help yourself to as much as you want. Falafel was not the best I've ever had. It was a bit dry and flavorless.
I've been here a few times and to be honest, not much differentiates it from other halal carts. The only delicious thing is the pita bread that they serve with the halal.
Qualifications - I'm certified in Halal combo platters and my office is right above this. While this cart is a NYC landmark, the cart across the street (other side of 6th ave.) is much better IMO in terms of the food. I don't like how these guys chop the meats up to a size similar to a NERDS candy. Watch out for the hot sauce. Get it on the side or you'll be en fuego.
I've been to many chicken and rice places in the city (and this place more than once). I have to say, either it's gone way down in quality, or I just hadn't been to the good ones. The chicken was dry and seasonless, the rice was dry. The white sauce was just ranch dressing. (I remember the white sauce being much better before). I will not be returning to this place that has been a NYC highlight for so long.
today was a halal-y sort of day. i work nearby, and i hopped out of my cubicle and SPRINTED to the cart. there was a line, but it always go quickly!! i got the gyro/chicken mix today. $6 for a huge pie dish of rice, meat, lettuce AND THAT LOVELY WHITE SAUCE! beware the hot sauce, it is SPICY! def worth a try, its a nyc classic.
It's done very well but I don't believe it deserves all the hoopla that it's getting. The service is very rushed which cannot be helped given the volume of customers they receive, however they still showed all their customers their appreciation while I was in line by giving us free reusable grocery bags. Pretty nice of them. The place is good, but not worth getting stabbed. If you don't get the reference, do a little bit of digging on the internet.
The best in New York City! It's worth going, one of those & I'm already stuffed! I love the chick/lamb combo, with the pita bread, & rice.. & aslo the white sauce! I would actually recommend this to anyone who get hungry late at night! Never fails on a weekend when I get out late from work
The 53rd and 6th avenue halal cart is amazing. There is a reason there is a non stop line up all day and they set up shop on 2 of the 4 corners on this intersection. Make it be known though that you order from the stand operated by the "Halal Guys" as this one is the original and there are many imitators. You will also be able to locate them easily because you will see the lineup. I've been here 3 times already on my visit and I've had to wait on average 10 minutes atleast but its worth it. The chicken and gyro are equally as good so I recommend getting the mixed gyro and chicken over rice. For $6 you will not be disappointed as the portions are generous.
They lived up to their hype. The food was super delicious and they gave us a lot of meat. I read reviews that they are rude but when I went they weren't rude to us. Line went by fast and their white sauce is really good! I'll definitely come back the next time I visit NY
Very good food but not worth waiting more than 10 minutes for as the nearby guys provide a very good substitute. The hot sauce / white sauce is what makes the whole thing special, remember to ask for extras if you are a spicy food guy like me.
What can I say, this place is consistently amazing and worth the wait in all types of weather
Highly recommended by friends to come check out this cart. We had tried another cart when we first arrived, thinking they were all the same. Halal Guys are way better! The chicken and rice with white sauce is so good! ?Their hot sauce is pretty spicy, good thing we only told them to put a little on. The portion is huge for only $6.
Their rice is OUT OF CONTROL delicious.
Prior to coming to NYC, all my friends tell me to go to the halal cart, idk what halal is not have ever tried it, so I was excited to. Walking around New York, you see so many! I thought of going to any cart to just try, but good thing I have a friend from the city and she took me to this one. I'm so glad she did !!! Got here around 1am kind of buzzed on a Friday, there was a line so that's a good sign. It moved very quickly and I got the mix Chicken and gyro over rice. My friend added the BBQ sauce to hers so I did too. It was so good ! Very different from what I've ever had. ?The BBQ sauce gave it flavor and the white sauce that it comes with makes it creamy. Add hot sauce if you dare, it's very spicy so I recommend adding a little first. I'm so happy I get to say I've tried the halal cart!!
My friends brought this back to the apartment for me to try because I was feeling too sick from the alchy I had before at the bar.. But when they brought it home.. I'm so glad they did! It was really yummy!! The meat and the rice mixed together with the white sauce they had.. Idk what it's called but boy was it good! The rice went so well with all the meat.. And the pita bread on top was so good with everything in it as well.. Maybe i was just super hungry from yacking cause of the alcohol.. But it was super yummy!! Glad I got to try it!!
I would give this zero stars if I could. ?First off, I'm definitely drunk and hungry so everything is supposed to be delicious. All I'm craving is some falafel so I get the falafel over rice. It is effing disgusting. Rice is decent for being drunk but pretty dry and the falafel tastes like it's been nuked in the microwave. There is absolutely no flavor. ?If you know good falafel then this will make you want to vomit which now, thanks to this, I just might. The white sauce is far from tzatziki. It tastes like mayonnaise to me. And I hate mayonnaise. ?Over all, this place sucks and I have no idea how it manages to get long lines and 4.5+ star reviews consistently. Someone else other than me has to see this!!!!
You get about three pounds of food for six dollars. I got the mix platter and my friend got the Falafel Sandwich. Falafel was only ok but the mix gyro and chicken was pretty amazing. That said, after a while you're pretty much digging at a box full of rice. If I was drunk I'd have given it five stars but I wasn't. I don't know if it's the best Halal Cart in Manhattan but it's pretty damn good. Their line does move much faster than one would expect. A good quick pit stop after coming out of MoMa.
as good as halal cart food can get. quick and fast service. only downside is that they have no drinks. you have to go to another cart for that--but that is walking steps.
Ambiance: *Street vendor with a long but fast moving line. *Located on many corners, but I went to the one across from Moma. Food: *Delicious and cheap! Got the mixed plate $6! *Awesome service, definitely a must try!
My friends and I were ready to head out to Brooklyn all the way from the Upper East Side. We were ready. We took some shots and braved ourselves though the 20 degree cold. About 15 mins in the cab, we made the decision to instead go to Halal Guys. Best. Decision. Ever. We grabbed four orders and then cabbed back to the Upper East Side. The food was glorious. There's something about that rice and sauce! It's great late night and even 10 hours later the next day. As I talk about it now, I can feel my mouth water. And now, I am hungry to eat it. I love this place and hope I can find one near my future NYC apartment!
My first meal in New York was from the Halal Guys cart and it definitely left a good taste in my mouth. Many other carts try to duplicate their food but it can't be done. The line can be really long but don't let that stop you from coming. The food is worth it. I'm not a big fan of lamb so I prefer the chicken over the lamb. But if you like both you can get the combination plate. I can't get enough of their white sauce, it makes their food even better (I'm craving it just thinking about it!). They give generous portions of meat, rice and salad for $6 so it's a good deal. If you take it home for leftovers, it's still good the next day. I've taken some home for my family and the food survived the flight! I've eaten here multiple times during my trips to New York and will probably do so next time I'm there. You must try the Halal Guys cart when in you're in the city!
Yup. This lived up to the hype. So much food for $6. Generous with condiments. Their hot sauce is the real deal. Great establishment. Do not be fooled by imposters.
Went last night for the first time, and yes there was a line at 3:30 am, but i didn't mind, it made it all the more exciting, I chatted up with others that expressed their "passion" for Halal guys. The food was good, not amazing, if I didn't know of @juicyplatters in fair lawn, NJ (route 4), I would of rated them a 4, that being said @juicyplatters is the same type of food, but with superior flavor, and yes, better white sauce!
The best street food ever! First time in NY and really wanted to try some kind of street food. Searched and searched, but none looked good. Then my husband and I smelled this truck a block away. We followed the smell, and ta-da! We found this stand. Gave it a try and to our surprise, it was AMAZING! The meat had lots of taste with the taziki sauce and hot sauce balancing each other out. The plate was only $6 and was stuffed. What a deal, especially in NY! When I go back to NY, I will go back to this vendor for sure. I think about it all the time.
Gyro & rice, can't go wrong. ?Lives up to the hype.
Chicken and lamb over rice a must. One of the best trucks around.
I love good hangover food and this is on the top of the list. It is not good for you but it tastes sooo good that you do not really care as soon as you have your first bite. I am not sure if I just do not do spicy or that kind of spice or if the food has been off a couple of times but the last two times my visit to the bathroom has not been pleasant every time after. That is up to you to find out I guess... Because it tastes so damn good I had to try a second time to see if it was just me or if it was the food, that says something about how tasty it is. When you go just make sure you find the right cart, that was a challenge to find out though. I went to the South east corner of 53rd street cart, just to specify because I have noticed that the reviews for this is for both businesses on each side of the street and they are in actuality competitors.
Apparently ... "Is this Greek Yogurt?" "No, it's white sauce." "What's in it?" "It's just white sauce." FOOD QUALITY: Definitely a big surprise in all aspects -- price, portion, quality, and freshness was all spot on. For $6 you get a big sized portion of rice, pita, lettuce, meat, two containers of white sauce, and hot sauce. The chicken is pulled into small pieces while seasoned lightly such that you still primarily taste the chicken when you have your bite. It's cooked a little dry, but it's still tender and there's still remnants of juice inside. The gyro is diced into small pieces, yet retains a good amount of fattiness and flavor. I definitely prefer this over the chicken, and I would only wish that they would let it sear for a moment because that would add a stronger fill flavor. The gyro itself is light in density and flavor, but still strong enough to be a decent highlight when mixed with white sauce and hot sauce. The rice is cooked perfectly! Soft, slightly grainy, and flavored lightly to act as an accent to the meat. The white sauce? I can't put my finer on what's in it but it definitely added some density to this light plate, but with light flavors to make the entire meal whole. One container does the job for me. Definitely something I want to eat again because it'll really warm you up on a cold night AND definitely fill your belly.
The halal is soooo amazing that this cart. It is totally worth the wait!
This place is the real deal, when people talk about Food Trucks in New York it is hard to go past the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart. Luckily this one was right outside Flatotel which is where I stayed on my most recent trip to NYC. When you have 30person lines at 10 minutes to Midnight you know you've found a good thing. The meat was cooked so well and the bread is amazing, especially if you have blown heaps of money on shopping you know you can get a good cheap meal from this Halal Cart. The cart is also run by an army of 5+, they know their busy periods and make sure they cater well so noone is left hungry. Even the teenagers who dress up as Sesame Street characters come here for a food break, I felt sorry for Elmo who was heckled the whole time he was in the line with his head removed and in his hands. Cmon people! ELMO GOTTA EAT TOO! Make sure you visit them on your next trip to NYC!
Arguably my favorite meal from my NYC Trip. Do yourself a favor. Get a combo plate. Drown that sh*t in white sauce. If you like spicy food, do NOT put more than a few drops of the red sauce, you will die. Line moves fast, food is amazing. There's no way to overhype this spot, I would fly back to NYC just for this.
Halal Guys! The name alone is already indicative of what you can expect. You don't have to know anything else about this place but know that it's Halal Guys! Note: Tastes even better after midnight.
Just came back from NYC and I am missing this like crazy! ?Can they bring this to SF please?!! ?Surpringly the line was not ridiculously long the time I went, which was about lunchtime on a Friday. ?They move pretty fast though. ?I had the combo (chicken and lamb). ?The portions were huge and for only $6?! ?And to top it off, it's really *that* good! ?Believe the hype! ?The hot sauce (extra for me plz) and white sauce was delicous. ?I'm so sad and dissapointed at myself for not finishing the whole meal. HA! ?My mouth is watering talking about this...
Horrible! I ended up with the same food from a competitor's cart, and it was WAAAAAAY better than this one. Way over hyped. Don't fall into the trap!
Being from California, I was NOT used to waiting in FREEZING weather for food but I'm glad that I did. ?All the good reviews you hear and read are true. ?Try it, you won't be disappointed....unless you don't like this type of food....then why are you reading this? ?(o.O)a **Newbie Tip** Everybody talks about the sauces. ?You might be anxious to ask them about it while they are plating but there are multiple large squeeze bottles to the right of the cart AFTER you get your plate.
HANDS DOWN THE BEST THING TO EAT IN NYC. $6 Bucks Cash. Chicken/Lamb over Rice with White/Red Sauce. *The less you say.. The more it means* JY.
NYC!!! You have the BEST chicken with rice!!! Love lOvE LOVE your white sauce and hot sauce!!! What's great about it? Is it worth the wait? Heck yea!!! This is one of my favorite places to eat in the Big Apple. If you see a line, that's a good thing because you're hitting up the right halal cart. There are a couple around 53rd & 6th so don't go to the wrong one. Chicken and rice is only $6 and they give you a good portion. Their white sauce is a delish and mixes well with their hot sauce. And when I say their hot sauce, it's pretty spicy hot. Thanks Halal Guys!
Good late night halal. Hardly a banquet.
In my opinion this is the second best Halal cart in the city, which still puts it in a league of its own. ?It is surpassed only by 'King of Falafel and Schwarma'. ?With that being said the lamb and chicken over rice here is out of this world. ?There are several other mediocre carts in the direct area of these guys, but they are easily noticed by their bright yellow shirts they wear saying 'The Halal Guys'. One thing they love to do here that most carts do not do is they throw in a beautiful pita on top of your platter which seems to absorb and change the taste of everything for the better, ?This place is awesome whether it be a 100 degree sweltering day, or, 20 degrees in the winter and you decide to request a little more of their extremely spicy hot sauce to hear your core temperature up a few degrees. Note: ?Their sauce is really hot so be careful with what you wish for there.
Decent potions and the chicken and rice with lots of sauce is okay. Definitely good sized portions and the place is open late. It doesn't seem amazingly better than many other carts, so don't stand in line unless you are here for a tourist attraction feel. The falafel was pretty dry so I'd stay away.
Everyone hyped this food cart up sooo much and I was dying to try it but honestly, it was just OK. Nothing special. Save yourself the 1500 calories on this place and get some McDonalds or some chinese food.
Long line to wait for their food! ?7 bucks flat for their rice plate with meat is totally worth it, though! ? Drench the entree with hot sauce and yogurt sauce that they provide on the side, then it will be fully savory! ? Speedy service and great fast food cart that is agreeably affordable! ?Remember to bring the paper greens - they only accept that!
spicy! but good. Careful on the red sauce. Get the plate with rice and salad.
nothin special
Cheap, fast and tons of delicious food, can't ask for anything else. I recommend going to the one on the South East corner, it's almost the same only better.
I love this place and crave it often. ?Too bad it's all the way in NY and I live in LA. ?Double :( ?I normally just get their chicken and rice and squirt a ton of white sauce on top. ?My bf likes the mix of chicken and lamb, also with a lot of white sauce. ?We had a debate about whether the sauce was just ranch. ?It tastes like ranch to me, but I don't normally eat ranch so I have no clue. ?Anyways, if you're visiting NY, this is cheap eats that's good!!
This place never disappoints. It's a good solid meal for a good price. ?And even though the line may be intimidating, it moves fast. ?I recommend the combo platter because they really pile on the meat. ?We also go a falafel platter, which was good, but you get more for your money getting meat. The spicy sauce is actually spicy. ?What they give you in the to-go bag should be sufficient. ?But if you feel like you want to add more sauce, they have a side area with sauces in a bottle you can squirt onto your food. There are more than one of these food stands on the same corner with the bright "The Halal Guys" sign. Same company, so you can try another line if one line is too long. ?Just go. :9
Yup ... its ny thing!.. its delicious at 3 in the morning when your slurring!
Taste delicious when your wasted and there are limited choices on whats available at 4am. Really nothing special besides the blistering spicy sauce they have.
So I spent a week in NYC with my friends who lived in the area. They, being the tour guides for a West Coaster, were under considerable pressure to impress me of their hometown's good eats and show some East Coast pride. I'll be honest, three days in, I was starting to feel a little disappointed with the savory food choices in New York and started to just look forward to dessert time (Levain Bakery, New York cheesecake, rice pudding... New York knows what they're doing with sweets). I am pretty sure a part of my disappointment stemmed from my friends' perpetual foodie battle of "which coast is the best coast?" and being from the Los Angeles area, my heart lies firmly there. So... the scene is set up, I'm still looking for a dinner that defines NYC and heard that this was the place. I order my food and sit on the side of a street to begin my culinary adventure. WOW. I got the lamb/chicken combo plate and it was absolutely fantastic. All that hype and amazing Yelp reviews were totally on the dot. I can see why most of the other "famous food destinations" in NYC has 4 stars, yet this one remains a solid 4.5. The meat was cooked right in front of you and the meat was extremely flavorful. Despite the fact that I ate enough to last for two meals, I didn't feel heavy afterwards, as you do after you consume a greasy meal. I felt full, but satisfied. Plus, the whole experience of the food cart just defines what it's like to be a student in a big city. Anywho, I seriously considered going there one more time before I left NYC. Until next time.
I feel like I'm the only person who is willing to say that this food cart is way over hyped. I think the craze is probably due to group think. Call ME crazy for thinking if you have to drench the food in sauce to be "amazing", then the food probably isn't good to begin with.
my friend and I were strolling in the city, shopping. it was getting late and we were hungry so we decided to grab something to go. This spot was the closest thing to us so we decided to stop by and see what the hype was all about. I got the mix lamb and chicken over rice. Although the chicken and lamb was a bit dry i have to say the white sauce made up for it and the ?price was pretty reasonable. over all, I would say it was worth my 6 bucks and it kept me pretty full!
This place is pretty much a landmark in NYC and has been for years. It's even more popular than the Hilton hotel which it is directly across from. Whether it's lining up for late night eats or grabbing grub on the go, the halal guys will not disappoint. Their chicken and rice plate with ultra hot sauce (you have to ask for this- it's in little containers inside the cart- not the BBQ sauce) and the creamy sauce is absolutely divine. Do not leave without trying this place. Order, pull up a seat anywhere on the street and enjoy the best C&R in the world.
I've seen the lines. I've smelled the halal in the air and I've walked passed this cart so many times. I finally decided to wait in the line after 2 years of living in New York and working uptown, after days of seeing a bunch of losers line up to wait for street food. I didn't get it, but now I understand. I paid $6 for chicken over rice, these "Halal Guys" use different rice and spices on their halal. Higher quality and a larger portion than your average stand. I would have given it 5 stars, but the men who work at the stand make it extremely uncomfortable and awkward for a girl... I'm not special, literally any girl. These dudes are bored and they are pervs. Also, if anyone really loves halal, I highly recommend going to the halal cart near Bloomingdale's on the corner of Lexington and 59th, directly across the street from Zara. The guy's name is Sam and I ALWAYS go to him, he is the best, better than The Halal Guys.
Look for the yellow plastic bags to make sure you're at the right cart! They also have one that is like one block over that's open earlier in the day if you don't want to wait until they open for the evening. Anyway, this cart rules. I don't really care if it's processed crap and I'm pretty sure the white sauce is mostly mayo. It's $6 for a ton of food, it tastes good, and the hot sauce is actually REALLY hot (be careful).
The quality is not as good as it was in the past when they use to make it to order, but a combo plate still hits the spot as good as anything out there. ? ?I am looking forward to checking out their upcoming storefront in East Village!
awesome food for $6! found the food to be a little salty but still very yummy. white sauce made everything taste even better. I'm taking off a star because it gave me a bad heartburn later in the night both times i had it , and i usually don't get heartburns...
I'm not picky when it comes to my halal so I only venture here when I'm entertaining friends when the "famous halal cart" is always on their list of must-eats. At night, I'll always walk friends by the SW cart first so they can see the spectacle before walking them across the street to the SE cart where there is no line for the same food. Somehow lamb and rice tastes better when you don't have to wait. P.S.: They also have a new East Village spot in front of their under-construction brick-and-mortar store. Same great food sans the waiting.
Excellent place ... Amazing food , whenever i go to city , i have to eat Halal guys ........ they are simply the best ...
One word ?. . . Amazing. There portion for 6 bucks is ridiculous and I can never finish it. You have to try their white sauce there is nothing like it. If you like hot their hot sauce is really really hot. Nothing beats it after a long night of bar hopping.
I'm one of the people who made a mistake of putting on too much red sauce. White sauce is awesome though. I thought the lamb had more flavor than the chicken. Filling. Cheap. Line moves fast too. Great during this cold winter! I would come back if I lived here. Wish we had something like this in San Francisco.
Beware of the crazy lines in the summer. Their white sauce is frickin amazing. I want them to give more veggies!
Smell good taste good Perfect !!!
I can't even. Granted I only ever eat here at 5 in the morning after making questionable life decisions but THAT SAUCE. I suspect if angels cried, they would cry that white sauce. Just a drop or two of the hot sauce is enough and I'm good. ?$6 of pure bliss all in your belly. Just do it. Also, they were still open during Nemo, so that's some dedication. Don't look up the calorie count online. Just don't.
Awesome drunk food! ?The combo platter with a TON of white sauce and red sauce. ?Its awesome. ?Try it. Enjoy. Sleep. Repeat. ?End of story.
I have to stop here every time I come to NY or anywhere near it. Before my fateful encounter with halal food, I would never eat lamb, but I've converted. Thank goodness. That white sauce is just to die for. I just want to fill up a bottle and take it back to California with me... ANYWAY, chicken or lamb. Find a ledge, enjoy your food while people watching. Or pidgeon watching... I miss NY.
I always go with the #1 choice which is a plate of rice and pita bread with combination of chicken and lamb. I love to mix the chicken and lamb. However, if I had to choose, I'd definitely choose lamb. The meat is so tender and flavorful. Also it doesn't have that lamb smell that most people hate. Sometimes I still cannot believe that with only $6, I can get a HUMONGOUS portion of juicy chicken/lamb (pick one or you can mix), long yellow rice, warm pita bread, lettuce and their scrumptious signature yoghurt sauce.Mind blowingly good! I could not even describe it! I also love to add the red hot sauce as well. I think hot sauce makes everything taste better. Read the full review at thetwotales.com
i am completely in love with Halal cart.. well sometimes i hate it because i over eat haha I started coming here after the clubs or bars on fri and sat nights so i thought it just tasted good bc im drunk. But its good during lunch times too! haha amazing, i could eat this eveyrday. The lamb is amazing, but i usually get the mix plate of lamb and chicken w extra white sauce and hot sauce. the hot sauce is pretty hot so becareful of how much you put on your plate. My bf refuse to eat off my fork even if it touched hotsauce.
Like a smart person, I came to this truck when giving up meat for lent. Nonetheless, I was with a group of tipsy friends after an event at MoMa and we needed some rice and white sauce. I tried the falaffel over rice and it hit the spot... so if you don't eat meat... you can do it, but that's probably your only choice. The extremely long line you will encounter will move fast... so don't you worry. Because of this fast turnover, your food is good and life makes sense. We sat on the fountain near by and shoveled it into our mouths... good times!
Cheap eats on a late night...especially when you are in a car and can drive there. Albeit, there can often be a bit of a wait in the wee hours, but it's worth it. It's definitely more fresh than others, and the sauces are the bomb. But it is, STILL...street meat so, it's probably horse meat. But the Dutch eat horse meat, so it can't be that bad! ;)
Cool to try out, especially if you're in the area. But it's probably not significantly better than other Halal carts.
Yea! Chicken and rice with extra white sauce. Just do it!!
This review is for the Corfu Halal Guys that sometimes occupy the 53rd and 6th intersection. Although I am pretty sure the halal cart with the workers decked out in yellow attire and the motto boasting that "[They] are different" is the famous stand, I actually prefer this cart. For the same price as the other cart, these guys offer meats that are so fresh and succulent; the other cart really cannot compare. I have had the original cart at least a handful of times now, and I was completely blown away when I tasted this cart's fare. In the future, this is the cart that I will seek.
nothing special
I work nearby and often saw the long line, but bypassed this place for quicker options, until one day when halal was the only thing I felt like having for lunch and I decided to give it a try. I was not disappointed in the least. Waiting in long lines has become far less mundane since the advent of smart phones. I barely made a dent in my twitter feed before it was my turn. I asked the lady in front of me if she'd been there before and she said she was pretty much an addict, so I just ordered what she was having, a chicken/lamb combo sandwich. Took it back to the office and moaned all the way through it, it was that good. That hot sauce is no joke. You can tell it's no joke by the lilliputian size of the container it comes in. I could not have handled more than what they gave me. The white sauce is definitely some of the best I've ever had. I'll be stopping by again on a nice day when I'm behind on checking my twitter.
I didn't know it was going to be THIS good... We actually didn't go to the one on 53rd and 6th...apparently we went to one that was a little bit before it, but it was the same company but NO LINE!! :) What was cool was after you order, you can walk across the street and sit at the metal tables and chairs that belong to the fancy restaurant. ?The owner said they let his customers sit there which was nice because I don't know where else we would have eaten it. FOOD: I got the "gyro" and chicken half and half with onions and bellpeppers, rice, pita, and the white sauce. ?I was kinda disappointed because I saw on the picture there was lamb but this one only had "gyro" which the guy said was the lamb. Next time I'm just getting gyro - the chicken was good but a tad dry and I was really just there for the lamb. The pita was SO SOFT, the rice perfect, the meat and sauce was a perfect blend. ?I told him to go light on the white sauce and he said I'd be coming back for more and gave us an extra tub of it and he was right, it adds that needed sauce to keep everything moist. AND IT WAS ONLY $6!! For sooo much food, two people could easily share. ?I thought I could finish mine but only got through 3/4 of it, and I was starving. Definitely the best meal in NY haha!! So good and cheap :) nothing like this in CA as far as I know.
nom nom nom. Obviously come here after a night out to satisfy those late night cravings :) wishing they had a cart in LA.... Hot sauce is hot and a MUST if you like spicy food. My friend Sally C. likes to dip her chicken directly into it. I prefer drizzling - she usually doesnt feel too good the next day...
This is the place to go if you're ever craving a cheap midnight snack. For $6, you can get a chicken & lamb over rice that I almost never finish and I eat a lot . This is different from your regular halal carts that you see everywhere in the city. ADD LOTS OF WHITE SAUCE plus some bbq and hot sauce and you're good to go. Only reason I'm giving this 4 stars instead of 5 is because ever since they have gained so much popularity, the quality and portions of the food has been decreasing...
A Must Stop for anyone visiting or living in New York. I've tried both the lamb and chicken, either one is very good in my opinion. With it's sides of lettuce, pita bread and Rice...oh yea and the White Sauce:) it will surely brighten up your day. ?As a warning, lines do form but the fellas working the truck gets everyone their meal fairly quickly.
These guys are fun. I always get the shawarma and it's consistently decent and convenient to have around as an option in midtown where it's kind of difficult to find a simple lunch option that's both inexpensive and somewhat healthy.
I spent about 30 minutes waiting here. The food was good and cheap. I ordered a gyro and falafel plate for $6, which was spicy, and I like spicy food. However, I think this place might be overhyped. While the food was tasty, I don't think I'd be willing to wait 30 minutes for it again.
It's good. Maybe I was too hyped up by it. But then again, I wasn't very hungry when I had this either. Not sure if it was my favorite during my trip in NY. There's a very long line for this but it goes by pretty fast. I enjoyed it. I had the chicken and lamb meat. I think we should have put more white sauce. I'll probably get it the next time I'm here.
Exhausted after spending a couple hours at Moma on a Sunday, I needed something to revive myself and cousins. ?I decided to swing by here and pick up lunch. ?Selection is limited here but that doesn't matter. Combo Rice Plate: A pile of delicious soft shredded chicken, succulent gyro meat top a pile of flavored rice,a side of iceberg lettuce and tomato, loads of pita and secret sauce complete your plate. ?I mean that sounds pretty plain but it is amazing. ?I don't know what they do to the pita but it was fluffy and chewy and the perfect foil for the meats. ?This meal was inhaled in minutes. ?This delicious plate of food was only $6. Falafel Sandwich: They wrapped up a couple of pre-prepared falafel ball and threw on some lettuce, tomato, onion and sauce. ?It was tasty but just a filler. ?For $2 more, I could have gotten another rice plate. While sitting, I saw another cart that had the name Halal Guy's and I thought why do they have the same name but didn't look the same and then I realized it. ?Guy's != Guys. ?Keep walking if you see that cart and just come here, get a combo plate and enter a food coma. PS: Don't get the Falafel. ?Just get MEAT. PPS: All the drinks are $2
The original, the great chicken and rice/platters/halal guys/best food ever. Call it what you will, it doesn't get any better than this. I usually find myself stumbling over to the carts around 3-5 AM, and I always get 2 lol. One for now, one for later :D I know, I'm a fatass, but I CANT RESIST. Drunk or sober, best meal 6 bucks can buy.
When visiting NYC and people recommend eating at a halal cart, you MUST got to Halal Guys, not the hundreds of other halal carts, even if it's right outside your hotel. I would give them 5-stars, but I'm not too sure how fresh all their food is, considering they have their salad pre-served on the plates and it's questionable how long they're sitting out for. BUT, if you're going to be eating at a cart on the side of the road for a tasty gyro or rice plate filled with mouthwatering white sauce for only $6, freshness goes out the window. Who cares? Their chicken over rice is by far the most delicious halal dish I've ever had. Just dump some white sauce on that baby, and you have the best dish in NYC for the best price. The gyros are pretty bomb, too. During the lunch hour and late at night there can be a whopping 10min wait, but it is totally worth it. Don't be fooled by other imitators who wear yellow shirts with a similar logo. I fell victim to this and was very disappointed. I even had a stomach ache. Make sure you're at 53rd & 6th! Also, unless you're a hardcore spicy food eater, their hot sauce is FIRE!! I barely touched the sauce with my fork and my mouth was burning. If you're like me and can barely eat Hot Cheetos, just stick with the white sauce!
Combo with spicy sauce is just amazing. The line is always long whether is it 1 pm or 1 am. Highly recommend!!
I've tried a dozen of different halal carts and this is hands down the best. Amazing hot sauce, generous portion, and usually moist meat and oily rice. I always thought it is strange how there is a long line of people waiting for the Halal Cart at the southwest corner of 53rd and 6th, while there are no one waiting for the Halal Cart at the southeast corner of 53rd and 6th. THEY ARE OPERATED BY THE SAME PEOPLE AND THE FOOD ARE THE SAME! I've bought a box of combo rice from both halal cart once with a friend just to check are they different. They're not. I guess lining up for the "real" 53rd & 6th Halal Cart (the southwest corner one) can be considered an experience, especially in a snow and with a bunch of guy friends. Similar concept as driving to White Castle in the middle of the night for their crave case. Nastily fulfilling and rich in fat and oil :9
After a long night of drinking and dranking, I get a call from my stomach: "feed me." I stumble on bags of garbage, curse at inanimate objects and walk in a zig zag pattern until I reach 53rd and 6th. Hmm. That guy that just flopped out of the cab looks like Cuba Gooding Jr. Naw, I'm just drunk. *Squinting* Wait. a. minute. THAT'S CUBA F&%KING GOODING JR! AND HE LOOKS MORE WASTED THAN ME!!! Halal Guy: Your order? Cuba: Hi. DO YOU KNOW WHO THE @#$^ I AM?! Hala Guy: *Smiling* No. Cuba: Okay. I'll get the mixed combo (my reccomendation to him). Okay, this is Yelp, not TMZ, so let's talk about food. There are many Halal carts in Manhattan, but only one (okay, two) Halal Guys. I personally can't tell you what makes this cart better than the other carts, I really can't. Maybe it's the sauce; or maybe it's the preparation, or maybe it's because I'm drunk every time I eat it. Whatever the reason, if you are gonna eat from a Halal vendor, get it from Halal Guys.
my favorite spot to get halal. $6 for enough food for 2. undoubtedly, the best white sauce i have ever tried anywhere.
If you're visiting New York City for the first time, mark this cart as a must go. This is the famous late night spot to eat in NYC. After midnight the lines tend to get really long, but once you get the chicken or lamb over rice, its definitely worth it! You can't really go wrong with either with the chicken or the lamb as I thought they were both equally delicious! What makes the plate stand out is their white sauce. I'm not sure what they put in it but all that I know is that it must be drenched over the chicken and rice. A tip with the hot sauce: it is very hot. I tried it with the hot sauce and it is one the hottest things I have ever tasted. If you don't like spicy food, beware! Overall, this place delivers great, affordable food in the middle of the greatest cities in the world! Definitely one of the best food experiences I've had in New York City.
I would let them skewer my kababs any day
mmmmmm
I am from NYC and a friend of mine just came to visit telling me she needs to go to thos place and tha the food is very good. So we did and what a line. Unfortunately, I honestly don't find anything special with their halal food compared to the other carts around. This is just a good example of good advertising from yelp.
The Halal Guys do a great job with street fare. ?Excellent food on the cheap. ?$6 gets you a large sized foil plate full of seasoned rice, some lettuce and I had the chicken with the garlic sauce. It was really cool to experience food like this and for a Thursday night at 10pm, there was a decent line of people waiting for the food. ?Thanks Paul for bringing me here!
Super hot sauce! the combo is awesome
For $6/portion it's super worth the wait. I actually crave for this food and have to drive in the middle of the night to nyc just to get this. That's how addicting they are..hahaha. :)
Love this! Every time I am there I will buy it! Highly recommend! The chicken and lamp were both great. The hot source was unforgettable!
I'm rating this based on what it is, a food stand to go to after a heavy night of drinking. ?Obviously I'm not rating this the same way I would at a sit in restaurant (although I've heard they recently opened one up somewhere downtown). I used to come here after every drinking session regardless of where I was. ?If we were in Jersey we would have the soberest person go to the city and bring back 10 combo platters for the rest of the group who were too drunk (or lazy) to make it there. ? I usually get the combo plater with 3 white and 2 hot sauces. ?I'm usually the only one in the group that can finish the platter in one sitting. ?The rest save it for a delicious hangover breakfast. Again this is an awesome place to eat after drinking and probably a decent place for a sober lunch (just doesn't taste as good).
Rom P. nailed it in his analysis below. There's so much hype with this place leading to huge lines which causes these guys to cut corners to meet the demand. How do I know? Because my plate of chicken/"gyro" over rice was ready 3.2 seconds after I handed the guy my $6 bucks and did not taste very good. Look at the pictures posted of the chicken - it doesn't look particularly seasoned or grilled, because it's spooned out of a big vat on top of a bunch of greasy rice that was also sitting around in a separate vat. When you order at most other halal carts the guy at least takes a minute or two to mix the stuff together, chop it up and give it an extra grilly texture and flavor by, well, mixing it on the grill. These guys don't do that here and they definitely don't season their food very well because it tastes pretty bland. Seems like they're just phoning it in at this point. Also - their sauces suck! The white sauce is creamy but has zero flavor and the hot sauce is spicy but also just bitter and flavorless. BOTTOM LINE - this place might have been good back in the day but now it's all hype - I recommend you don't go out of your way to come here and if you are in the area, try a random smaller vendor who will work harder for your money.
Nice food and a quantity you cannot really finish at a go! I got the mixed gyro and chicken and must say the beef was really good. But I come from an asian country where hottest spices are the norm so I was not really impressed with the sauces and infact the rice felt dry. Overall it was good food but nothing to match the hype. The guys at the cart were pretty efficient and friendly in their handling of the customers though.
Yes...I've had food from the Halal Guys. Hubby loves this truck and I don't understand his allegiance. We ordered food after coming off of the ?Staten Island Ferry. ?Cool, they call tzatziki "white sauce", whatever. ?Got two dishes, one with freaking lamb (YUCK!!!) and one with chicken. The dishes were odd in that they looked and kinda smelled the same.Also, one set of utensils for both of us. I elected not to eat. Hubby loved the food however he became ill several hours later. I know food poisoning was NOT an issue here. I just don't get the overall mindset with their trucks. ?No true menu's...I just am not a fan.
AMAZING. One of the best things I ate in NY. ?Lamb & chicken combo with extra white sauce. Do not add hot sauce unless you want to cry.
Tastes good, but their tzatziki is ranch.
Really long lines, but worth the wait.
Cheap, fast, tasty, pretty good quality food. Only $6 for a place with a generous helping of meat, salad, rice and pita bread makes this place a must have when you're in NYC, whether you're looking for drunchies or just a place to grab a quick meal. The only thing that sucks is no seating.. Most people eat standing, take it to go, or find curb type things to use as mock tables. The halal guys now have three carts around w. 53rd st and 6th ave, so you don't have to worry about knock offs :)
No explanation needed if you are a New Yorker because we all know what it is. For those of you who aren't from Ny, well you better make sure you come here after a late night of partying!
BEST. FOOD. EVER. $6 for a hot and steamy chicken and lamb over rice. Add some white sauce, some hot sauce (and a little bit of BBQ) and you have yourself the best drunken meal money can buy! There is always a line, but it usually moves pretty quick. Not much seating, but if you go across the street you can usually grab a spot.
Since there are over 4000 reviews already, I'm going to keep this short. Pros: - $6 for a huge platter of meat (lamb, chicken, or both), rice, AND PITA (I don't know about you but it's difficult for me to find a halal cart that provides pita bread) - You will be full, or even stuffed - Lamb is good - Love the hot sauce (go easy on it; a few drops will suffice for your mouth to smolder) Cons: - Chicken is super dry and it crumbles apart as you eat it - Occasional long line - The platter isn't particularly "flavorful", unless you douse it in white sauce If you want cheap food while you're starving, come here. Otherwise, it's something I would not go out of my way to get.
Good food truck for sure.
Holy crap I can't believe I haven't written a review yet for my lovely halal cart. I came here with some friends for thanksgiving break and one of them had suggested to try the cart. At first I was like wtf is so great about eating some halal cart. Hell I didn't even know what halal was, but it's NY so I figured why not. While we were freezing our asses off walking here I was surprised by the long line waiting for this cart. While exploring NY we saw many of these carts, but for some reason this cart was special. THEY ARE DIFFERENT! This was probably the best street food I ever had. I got the chicken & lamb plate which was so dirt cheap $6! It was so much food, but yet the quality was so delicious. I have no idea what they put on the meat, but it's so addicting or perhaps it was the white sauce and hot sauce. Regardless, everything was so fresh and tasted heavenly. Words can't even describe it. The food was actually hot (temperature wise) that I didn't even notice I was freezing my ass off standing out in the cold eating. The rice wasn't dry either and the lettuce was crisp. I had also added some of their BBQ sauce with the dish and it tasted really good. After coming home to Cali I was having withdrawals of this cart. I would have to say after exploring so many restaurants during our NY trip, my friends & I all agreed that this cart was the best food we had! So good that we ate it twice during our trip. Apparently in Davis, CA they have a cart like this, but nowhere else in the OC. I have looked everywhere back in cali for something like this, but apparently no restaurants serve this type of food :(
I came in here on Saturday, right after Nemo. In case there was any doubt on my mind that they earned their 5 stars, being open right after a "potentially historic" blizzard = respect. First time in NY and my friend had told me I have to go to "chicken & rice." My coworkers were searching for "halal guys," we get there and I realize we're talking about the same place. Luckily for us, the line consisted of one person in front of us. The food lived up to all the hype. Chicken and Gyro combo platter, BOMB. Portions, copious. You already know from reading the other reviews... the white sauce: awesome, the hot sauce: extremely spicy and awesome. The absolute best way to spend 6 dollars in NYC! (considering my arizona iced tea cost me almost 5!). There's street food, and then there's Halal Guys; they should change the name to HALAL GODS. If I don't find time to come back here one more time before I leave, I'm gon be pissed.
Its cheap and delicious. The carts on all the corners are all the same so save yourself the wait. YUM DRUNK FOOD
Yup.
Oh. My. Goodness. They really do live up to all the hype. Seriously. And when it's blistering cold outside on a Saturday night in February, and you see a long line down the block, all waiting to warm their souls and bodies with either chicken or lamb (or both), drenched in white and red sauce...yeah, it's legit. Now about that red sauce...beware!! It's definitely super hot, but super addictive at the same time. I always ask for extra of that stuff. Get the lamb and chicken on rice...for $7 bucks it's a great deal and enough for 2 people.
I don't know what it is about this cart but the food is awesome. Nothing special, yellow rice, chicken, gyro meat, salad, pita, special white sauce and hot sauce, but it tastes great. I've been coming to this place since '99, when there were no lines and only 1 cart, 14 years later, they have 3 carts, and the line on weekends is an experience on its own. Every visitor I get, this is a place I bring them to, so they can experience the NYC street cart food.
This was our late night stop for food after a full night of drinking. Took the cabs here and basically picked up food and went back to our hotel. Pic: yelp.com/biz_photos/53rd? We ordered the mixed plate. The meat was tasty, but kind of bland. The rice was good as was the bread. What really made the plate was the beyond spicy sauce. This added the punch that was sorely missing from the plate. I didn't use any of the yogurt sauce, but the salad was pretty refreshing in the mix. Overall, it was pretty good meal after drinking, but I don't think it hit my hunger spot though. The line was really long and it was probably too long for what this is. I didn't quite see the 5 stars that everyone was giving. There was nothing that really stood out about the food, but it is good... just not great. I'm sure the fact that we were eating after drinking helped a lot though I don't know if I'd go here randomly during the day. Regardless, this is definitely worth a try just based on their popularity. So, 3.5 stars... rounded up to 4 because math says so.
So unhealthy, but SO GOOD. There are some days when you just need the Halal Guys. My standard here is the combo platter (half lamb, half chicken) with white sauce (and red sauce on the side - it's so spicy! I like to control the amount of red sauce in my food). A huge amount of food for just $6. I can never finish it in one sitting. There are two carts on 53rd and 6th, one on the west side and another on the east side of the avenue... I very slightly prefer the one on the west, but my friend prefers the east due to the chicken's "nuttier flavor", as he likes to say... honestly, you can't go wrong with either so just pick the one with the shorter line if you are in a rush. They are super fast so don't let the line scare you away.
Had a night of unmentionable experiences? Need really good food? Like halal "white sauce"? Low on funds? Lunch break uptown? Not discouraged by long lines? Want a really GOOD dinner? .....Then head on over to the Halal cart on 53rd and 6th. Something you must experience. Just do it. Really hard to describe its greatness, worth the long line.
one of the best late night food options in the city. do it...wait in the line, it goes fast. Everyone calls this the 'chicken and rice' cart, but I always get the lamb and rice (my friends get the combo..half chicken, half lamb.) the most important thing to remember....GO EASY ON THE HOT SAUCE....in fact, dont let it touch your food, put it in the corner.....trust me, youll be happy you did.
Out of all the good eats NYC has to offer...this might be my favorite thing to eat. ?I don't know why or how, but it is so DELICIOUS. ?I always get the combo over rice with a ton of the white sauce. ?Gotta get the white sauce and be generous! ?It doesn't look that appetizing when everything is mixed together but something about it I just can't get enough of. ? The gyro has a great blend of seasonings and combined with the chicken and that rice, its to die for. ?There's so much flavor in everything and for $6 you get a lot. ? Lines can get super long but the orders come out quick. ?They stay open super late if you're trying to soak up the drunk in you. ?But seriously, it's a must have for me when I'm in NYC. ?These guys are legends.
If you see a long line around 53rd and 6th, you're in the right place Have $6 cash in hand Ask for extra white sauce - 1 to 3 packets You only need one extra packet of spicy sauce Tip: do not over pour spicy sauce. Put on a couple of drops first and see how much you can take - add loads of white sauce mm
Let's start out by saying that this is one of my favorite halal stands. There are nights where my friends and I would drive out into the city (30-45mins; depending on traffic) to get their chicken over rice. The way the chicken tastes is like no other I've tasted before. The line for the stand is sometimes ridiculously long, but it's worth it. For the price of $6 the portion is quite big. The platter comes with your choice of meat, mini-salad (lettuce and tomatoes), rice and pita bread. You get to add your own sauce which for me is a good thing because I don't like too much in my rice. *Warning: their hot sauce is pretty spicy* (and this is coming from someone that loves spicy food, and eats hot sauce with almost everything).
I am still not sure which cart this is - there are two. One that say "The Halal Guys" and the other have the apples on their shirts. I am reviewing The Halal Guys - and they were great. I got the combo over rice. White sauce was amazing, meat was great. Nothing wrong here! I've had NYC food carts in the past with less than stellar results. I'd love to go back and try both carts - to compare!
I heard of this from my friends a few years back and stuck it on my bucketlist. I forgot about it for a while, but now that I'm leaving the city for a bit, I figured I might as well as try it. I've eaten from several trucks, but this one is delicious. I arrived 5 minutes before the supposed opening time, and there was already a line waiting. The staff was friendly, and there was a guy handing out free yellow bags advertising the Halal Guys, and I thought it was a pretty good way to get attention. I got the Plate with Rice & Pita Bread Combination meats (lamb and chicken) for $6, and considering their serving size and location, it was a great deal. All the foods (rice, pita bread, meat) is freshly made in front of you. If you're a New Yorker or tourist, I definitely recommend trying this place out! Though I didn't see any official seating, there were places you could sit down on (ledges, etc) and enjoy your hot meal (:
Best Eats for $6. UNREAL HOT SAUCE. One of the top 2 hot sauces I have had in the US.
Always good. I've been getting chicken (or lamb) over rice extra sauce for dinner and it tastes good and it's cheap. One thing I'm struggling with is the white sauce to go. The sauce cups are always warm by the time I get home. ?I wasn't sure if they were "good" to consume, but I couldn't throw away white sauce. Actually, as I am writing this, I realized that I have an insulated pocket in my backpack! This will not be an issue for me anymore.
I resisted the hype. ?But after a weekend of good eats spanning Michelin stars, celebrity chefs and TONY recs, this is still the meal that lingers on my mind. ?Even if it required a long line in the falling dusk and sidewalk scarfing amidst July heat wave humidity which throbbed on undeterred. ? Yeah, I'd do it all over again just for another plate of that magic. ?It's weird: as separate elements, the chicken, lamb, rice, pita, white sauce, and hot sauce are just ordinary dudes (although the rice, lamb, and sauce should get special shout outs). ?But together, they are DELICIOUS VOLTRON. ? I'd get the chicken/lamb combo over rice, shuffle the pita to one side in order to properly drench the plate with white sauce, make sure to reach for the hot sauce not the bbq sauce, and not share.
Best food cart/gyro/platters EVER! I've been coming here since my college days and the food quality hasn't changed, It is unbelievably delicious. ?I always ask for extra meat and grab extra white sauce and hot sauce. BEWARE of the tiny little packages of hot sauce - they are KILLER! ?Mmmmm, I'm salivating as I'm writing this :-P Must try!!
Yellow rice, thumbs up! ?Lamb, thumbs up! ?Hot sauce, very hot thumbs up! ?Cost, thumbs up! ?But like some other reviews I tried to understand what the hype was about, especially since there's a Halal Cart on almost every 3rd block in Manhattan. ?I guess, in part, the Halal Cart experience was more of an experience than amazing food. ?More of a cultural ride for my ears, all variations of languages floating past my ears then to look at the faces attached to those languages is what I guess the Halal Cart was for me. ?Yes, go enjoy the food enjoy the experience cause, dam, its worth something when Yelpers throw down 3,600 something reviews.
This place is good, but not great like everyone is crazy about. ?There is not vegetables just meat and rice. ?I give this stand credit for being creative with its packaging, variety of sauce on the side of the stand for people to add themselves, and for being open very late. ?This halal is more greasy than the others I have tried. ?There is actually a much better halal stand in queens. ?Not as popular as this one because the other one is not in Manhattan and doesn't open late like this one I would recommend this for people who are in manhattan late, plan to go to the bar, and just want to see what all the hype is about/
I was worried this place would be overhyped, and I actually almost got in the wrong line at a competitor's cart (they also wear very similar branded colors), but I'm glad I waited in(on) line. The chicken really is really good. I usually skip on chicken since it's so easy to overcook, but here it was perfect. Oh yeah, and heed their warning signs for their hot sauce. I usually ignore restaurant hot sauce warnings because most restaurants seem to use some kind of wussy scale and it ends up being not that hot. But their hot sauce here really is hot. Haven't teared up like that in awhile.
after reading all the reviews, i decided to go try the place. the food is tasteless, bland and as far as can be from middle eastern food.....
Food-poisoning on wheels coming to a neighborhood near you. ? Well, we ate there and had food poisoning. Thus, avoid even if its only $6.
this spot is SO undeserving of the number of reviews and stars that it's gotten. maybe there's something wrong with my taste buds but i prefer many other late night drunk spots over 53rd + 6th. i mean the the white / red sauce is crack, don't get me wrong... but 4,000 reviews... really? i wouldn't call this place a must-see tourist spot so much as a drunken destination that obliterated people in their 20s go to for some quick/cheap munchies after a night out. if you're here visiting NYC, i recommend venturing out of manhattan for pizza in brooklyn or asian food in flushing (queens).
I love halal guys!!!! Their spicy sauce is just amazing! !!!
THERE WAS NO LINE!! I was so excited because I fully expected to stand in line for a good hour. I mean, 20% of my week in NY was spent waiting in line (but most of the time the food did not disappoint. I am Middle Eastern, so I'm already way pickier than most when it comes to Arabic food. Halal Guys did not disappoint. It was delicious - the meat was extremely tasty and tender and very very generous, especially considering the low price point (I think it was $5?). The red sauce is extremely spicy, so tread with caution. I asked for "light" sauce on mine. I liked the white sauce but did not love it like some of the other yelpers - just a tad too creamy for me. GO! You won't be disappointed!
Best halal food when you're drunk. Warning: the hot sauce puts your tongue on fiyyyaaaahhhhhhhh. Chicken and rice all the way :)
SO happy that this place has come to the East Village! What's not to love about this place? For $6, you get an insane amount of chicken, rice, lettuce, pita and of course, the amazing white sauce. It's cheap, delicious, and incredibly generously portioned! If you have yet to try The Halal Guys, go to 53rd and 6th (or 14th and 2nd) now. Just go. No questions. foodcomalogs.blogspot.com
I've only come here to restore balance to the force. ?It's a Halal cart we're talking about here - they churn out pounds of questionable hot meat, tons of fat, salt, barely seasoned rice, hot sauce that kicks your asshole, soggy pita to sop up your shame after finishing the whole thing... okay, so actually all of that sounds pretty good to me. ?And yet, it's just good, not change-your-layover good, not "fuck every other food cart that ever was" good. ?There are some other places in Manhattan that do halal at comparable quality and price that aren't astronomically famous. ? It's... good though!
I got sick eating lamb over rice today, I've had this couple times and at other trucks, never had issues, but got really sick today. I was hoping the high turnover/volume that they're selling, they would at least keep a consistent minimum quality standard.
53rd and 6th!! Best halal cart Eva. I love their white sauce, hot sauce, the lamb! All of them. Nummy num. I don't mind the other one two blocks down either but I can't pick and choose one. What's your halal cart? 53rd or 55th? Drunken munchies? Late night? Quick bite? Or all of the above with extra bucket of white sauce? Yeaaaa. Win win.
Where do I start?!?! I feel like calling the nypd's narcotics division and having this place checked out, they must be putting crack or heroin in the food, its so damn addicting!! At first glance you wonder if they are giving something away for free since the line is freakishly long, the food is so good that people will stand in line despite the length waiting to get "hit off" by the dealer of halal. I've been going to this place for years but finally decided to write a review, no matter what season it is people will bear the heat wave or blizzard to get their plate of goodness. When getting this dont make the cardinal sin of putting to much hot sauce it will be uneatable, and your asshole will hate you the next day. I have a high threshold for hot sauce and even I sat there sweating as I ate but still enjoying my plate. I usually go for the lamb/chicken mix which is not bad on price and for the portion you get it can't be beat.Don't be fooled by the other guys with the yellow shirts, they aren't the real deal. What can I say about this place except extra white and extra hot.
$6 for a bowl of heaven ?that can feed two people. Love their white sauce, but their hot sauce is even better! it's actually spicy. One minor complains I have is that their lamb doesn't taste like lamb because there's no smell.
Its the best in town, hand's down!
My boyfriend insisted that we try this place out because he had heard all this hype about it. After having had the food, I do have to agree that it really is too hyped up. Not to say that the food wasn't good, but it wasn't "OMG I must have that all the time!" type of great. Not bad for a street vendor though, and the prices were decent. We each got a plate of the lamb/chicken combination with rice and beans or something, and I have to admit, the portions were very generous. We probably should have ordered one plate and shared, because neither of us could finish ours. The lamb was juicy and moist, and the pita bread and rice were quite good as well. But not a fan of the chicken, although my boyfriend seemed to prefer the chicken over lamb. In their defense, I usually only like chicken when it's crispy and super unhealthy. Yes, there was quite a line, but I didn't think it was particularly long. Maybe it's because we arrived early and missed the lunch crowd, but it's not any longer than I normally wait at a food truck. For people who complain their food was ready too quickly, I don't see how that's a valid complaint. It's not as if they had frozen meat that was microwaved and ready in five seconds. They simply had a lot of meat cooked at once, and it was staying warm on the grill. And really, I like that my food didn't take over 10 minutes to get ready because I was starving. Overall the food was good, but nothing super special. If I happened to be walking by and wanted something cheaper to eat, I wouldn't be opposed to coming here again. But I am definitely not walking 10 blocks again just to have some of this.
You already know.
Best drunk food ever. Cheap, fast & plenty of it. Get extra white sauce. Beware of the red sauce if you're not a heat freak. I will walk blocks in order to get the lamb over rice after a late night of partying or any time of the day. Be prepared to stand in line, but don't fret, the Halal Guys are efficient & work like a well oiled machine. The guys that work there are always really nice too. Suggestion: lamb over rice with lots of white sauce & red sauce. If you think you have put too much white sauce over your food, keep squirting that bottle because the stuff is amazing & you will wish you had more.
These guys are still pretty good and I can say that I have been going here for about 10 years now. They are basically the McDonalds of Halal Cart food in the city. They have however traded up a bit of taste for speed and cashflow. Still $5 for a mixed platter, $6 with Pita or soda The major down side recently has been...in order to speed up the process the food is no longer made to order...they precook the food (there is a lot of turn over so no worries on the freshness) and then dump it into plastic containers. C'mon guys...someone is going to get the bottom of the barrel one day and it is not going to be pretty. Also the use of plastic containers ?to store the precooked food turned me off a bit. The chicken used to come in chunks now has been reduced to hash or pulled chicken at best. and the lamb is almost ground up before they have chopped it too fine. I think this is what give Sammy's in Queens the leg up on the halal guys.
I. LOVE. THEM. If you want something cheap, tasty and with a lot of meat. Here it is. Personally I think the amount of white sauce they put on it is appalling if you say nothing beforehand. Their hot sauce is very nice.
So I've been eating at the cart for 5+ years. ?I'm gonna give it to yall plain and simple. ?6 bucks for chicken or lamb or both with rice. When people think of "the halal cart on 53rd and 6th" they think of the specific cart next to the fountain. ?That specific cart is only there after 7:30 pm. ?There is a cart in this spot during the day time (which isn't bad either) but isn't the "famous" one you came for. ?However, the other cart on the opposite side of the street (under the scaffolding) is owned by the SAME people and is there from at least 12pm noon every day until the early am (I've also tried both at the same time). ? A cart owned by the same people has actually expanded to the immediate area (I want to say around 51st street and 5/6th). One way to tell if you're getting the right platter is by the umbrellas- these guys use umbrellas that say "halalguys.com" on them. ?Another way is by the yellow bags the food comes in that also say "Halal Guys" or "We are Different." ? Eating It: ?Use lots of white sauce and very little hot sauce. If you eat it to "stay" you can always ask for a cover (if they don't give you one) and a bag if you decide to take it home. ? Also just fyi there is no public bathroom (that I know of) in the immediate area). ?And when it's cold out sometimes I'll go into the Apple Bank and just sit in there and eat it. Lastly, the line can get long but it goes by quickly. Happy eating!
How can halal food be THAT good to be so famous? Well it just is THAT good. $6 for chicken over rice with pita bread. White sauce and hot sauce are on the side. It is a lot of halal for $6, no lie.. Maybe I'm just a pansy. But I normally split an order with my sister. Best halal in the weeeerld
You seriously cannot go to New York and not try the very famous Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th! Make sure that you're actually on 53rd and 6th and that you try the Real Halal Guys (yelp.com/biz_photos/53rd?), or else you'll get stuck at one of the knock-off carts and you'll miss out on the entire experience (yelp.com/biz_photos/53rd?). My friends and I made three trips to the Halal Cart during our visit to New York--so yeah, it's pretty darn addicting and good! I'm not sure if there is anything like it around here, but it's pretty much Greek or Middle Eastern inspired food. You have a choice of chicken over rice, gyro over rice, or both chicken and gyro over rice. I believe there was a sandwich offering of either chicken, gyro, or falafel too, but everyone mainly sticks to the rice. The first time here, I went with the chicken and gyro over rice, which came with some lettuce, white sauce, and a crazy spicy red sauce. I'm not sure what the white sauce is made of, but it's pretty much what makes the entire dish. It's street food after all, and so the ingredients aren't out-of-this world, but they are very fulfilling and good. I enjoyed the chicken more so the gyro, so the last two times I got chicken over rice. One order is pretty hefty, as I was only able to get through half and a time. I'd recommend giving them a try, it's super cheap and tasty!
so gewd, Esp when drunk. Don't try too much hot sauce, it burns.
Some friends and I took a cab to Halal Guys... in the middle of a friggin' blizzard (Nemo) at 2am. So you know it's real. However, we're from sunny California, we didn't know any better. Did I mention we were inebriated beyond repair?
Hands down, THE BEST meal out of a food cart (even against all food trucks) I've ever had. If you're ever wondering "is it only good because I'm drunk at 4am" let me confirm that it's good from open to close. We must have had their lamb/chicken over rice at least 4 times AND it's only $6. OOhhh that white & red sauce creates the spiciest combinations ever! Let me save you a crap load of money and tell you don't bother eating at some late night $60-$100 BS Korean spot on W 32nd and just come here... arguably the happiest corner in NYC.
Meh, this tastes like just any chicken over rice. The falafel was dry and bitter-nothing like the real thing. Nice guys, had lengthy conversations with them, however it's almost like people hype it up too much. I don't see what all the fuss is over. Maybe it was just a bad day for them. Cheers.
Visiting New York for the first time, my friend told me I should try this place. Oh boy!! It's sooo freaken AWESOME!!! The only down side is waiting in a huge line...but other wise its just LOVE AT FIRST BITE!!! Just loveeeeee it...I got a mixture platter so it had all kinds of meat. Also, beware of the chili red sauce, that can little drop can make your whole platter spicy. Since I love spicy food, I was okay! Totally Recommend for the FOOD!!! My mouth still waters till this day. Every time I go to New York, I will just want to eat there!
When I told my friends that I was visiting New York for the first time, EVERYONE, yes Everyone mentioned that I MUST visit this halal cart. In all honesty, I had no idea what the big fuss was...until I got to NYC. There are halal carts everywhere! But, amongst the crowd, THIS is the halal cart that you want to visita and you must do so at some unholy hour right after stumpling drunk out of a bar or club... haha just kidding, it's good sober or not. After a very long and tiring first day in New York, due to jetlag and what not, my poor and old body couldn't endure a night out on the town..yes very sad. I napped instead and upon waking up at 11pm at night, I went on a mission to find this cart. In all honestly, at the corner of 53rd and 6th..there are SEVERAL halal carts... and..if i'm 100% honest, I don't really know if i went to the right one. But I did go to the cart with the longest line, so cross my fingers and pray that it was the right one. The selection is limited and straight to the point. Go for the combination (unless you're not a fan of lamb) rice plate and slather that baby up with the White sauce and if you can stand the heat, pour (well sprinkle) that hot sauce on as well. It's gets a bit dry toward the bottom..the the sauces definitely help! For $6 you get a ginormous metal pie tin worth of savory rice, chicken, and lamb. Yes it's quick, yes the portions are more than hefty ( i ended up sharing with my friend) and the lack of veggies really didn't bother me too much. It was delicious..it was awesome and if it tasted that good to me sober, I'm sure it would have been amazing if I wasn't. There really isn't any seating..so find some ncie stairs across the street and enjoy. Sit down and grub...and people watch. Quite hilarious the people you see stumpling over.
I'd come here every now and then when I was still working in the area, and friends from out of town usually would ask me to take them here whenever they visit. It's decent for $6 (I get lamb and rice), both in taste and portion. It hits the right spot when you're drunk--which I think is really because your body is craving for grease, and their food has them in spades. I've tried other halal carts in the city, mostly the no-name ones, and the Halal Guys cart is just a notch better. Not overly, but it's worth going here if you're in the area and hungry. I do find the notion of waiting in line for upwards of twenty minutes for street food a little absurd though.
Get the chicken & lamb Combo. It's only $6 and the portion is HUGE. Its not overly salty like other halal carts. It has the perfect amount of seasonings SHARE. Unless you eat like a bear, then get your own. Get the red sauce (1 is enough for me)...its crazy spicy and soo yummy
Excellent. Should have come here earlier. ?Clearly we had to get the chicken and rice and eat it greedily on the street half a block away. ?I can't wait to come back here.
I honestly think this is overrated. It's not that the food is bad and trust me, if you're around the area on a night out in Manhattan and had a few drinks, this can certainly "hit the spot". Other than that, its not a bad meal by any means but it's nothing to really stand in a crazy line over. It's a little over hyped as I mentioned but the prices are good, the meats, the rice, the salad, its all good but there's so many halal carts that CAN compare to this one. However, its all about branding yourself and these guys have it down to a science and that's what attracts people. I personally would recommend better halal food in Jackson Heights, Queens. There's one halal cart that has one a few "vendy awards" and though they fall off a little bit with their taste and its pretty average now; they do add a little bit more flavor. Overall, I won't say pass it up. Please do definitely stop and try it, its certainly great food and it won't hurt your pockets but its also not a "must try" spot.
Good if you're drunk and in need of some greasy food. The guys are nice and the price can't be beat!
I came to this cart a year or two ago. In fact, I had to go twice because it was so fantastic. This trip, I went back and it was just mediocre. My friend got it twice (around 4 PM on Saturday and 1AM on Sunday with me). He said when he got it at 4PM, it was better. The pita was cut a different way too. When I got it, 1AM Sunday, it was meh. The garlic sauce didn't pack a garlic punch and the chicken was just okay. The hot sauce was hot. Totally over halal cart. But maybe I will give it another chance earlier in the day.
lamb and chicken combo all day - all night.
Always come back to this place whenever I'm craving Halal food!!! The line is always long late night, but it goes by pretty fast. ?Can never finish a whole one though so I always share with another person. Good for your money!!! :)
First time trying and in love! Will definitely be coming back every time we visit New York! You get a ton of food for only $6. My fianc? and I shared the gyro and chicken over rice and cleaned the container. Get extra white sauce because the red sauce is spicy!
It's okay and a huge portion, but i think the chicken is a little bit dry. ?I hope the masses of people that wait in line don't see me in the neighborhood for saying that.
Don't even bother eating at any of the other Halal carts in the city. This is THE Halal cart! $6 cash buys you a huge plate of rice and lamb. There's squeeze bottles on the right side of the cart (after you pay) of the white and red sauces. I usually use a lot of the white and a tiny bit of the red since it's very spicy. The plate for $6 is enough food to feed and fill 2 very hungry people. If you're eating alone, it's enough to bring home for another meal. This is my favorite place to eat when I'm in this area and it's totally worth the wait in line!!
Always filling and delicious, and always a long wait (but it's an event), so it's ok!
AMAZING. Ask for more white sauce if you're taking it to-go.
I was supposed to meet a friend at MOCA, but somehow got lost in the crowd and decided to follow the crowd. Before I knew it, I was in line for this amazing food. The wait was not too bad, considering I was waiting on a Friday late afternoon. the line went by fast, less than 30 minutes and the food was amazing and worth the wait! Get their Chicken over rice and try their white sauce on the side, as recommended. This is the type of food that you should definitely give a try when you are in NY. The next time I am in NYC, I'll be back here without a doubt!
On my way to MoMA, I saw this cart and there way a long line waiting to buy food, so I figured if the line was long, then it must be good. ?After I left MoMA, I was starving, so I walked back to this cart and got in line. I ordered the Gyro & Rice, and they asked if I wanted hot sauce on it. I said yeah and they put some on. Then the guy asked me if I had ever had the hot sauce and I said no. He took my plate and scooped the portion with the hot sauce off and served me a fresh portion, and told me "oh, you'll kill yourself if you eat that! It's even too hot for Mexicans!" and then he gave me some hot sauce on the side. I was laughing so hard. ?It was the most delicious gyro & rice bowl I had ever eaten!!!!! I HIGHLY recommend this cart!!! And yes, the hot sauce was really hot, but it was good!
3.5 stars. It is my opinion that New Yorkers love their lines. Luckily, this line moves surprisingly fast, as the entire operation has been fine tuned to an art. The food serving here are extremely generous, and you'll definitely get a bang for your buck. Make sure to put a liberal amount of white sauce on your meat, because that's what makes it good. You can also put it in a container so that if you need more, you'll have some on hand. As for the food itself, I got chicken and lamb over rice. Some of the meat was a bit dry, but you don't really notice once you drench it in white sauce. I would be more inclined to go to them if only the line wasn't so long.
Long line but super quick service. ?I got the chicken & gyro combo plate but unfortunately put too much hot sauce :( ?It was so spicy but so good that I was still trying to eat it through all the numbness in my tongue. ?I'm from San Diego so our late-night-food staple is a big heaping pile of Carne Asada Fries. ?Now I wouldn't be a true San Diegan if I said that Halal food beats Mexican, but damn did it come close, and there are still those drunken nights when I crave that chicken & gyro plate.
Hate the line at 4:30 am but sooo worth the wait. ?This is the king of street meat. There is no better. Period. Word of advice: be easy on the hot stuff, that stuff is so potent it got me off on a potential DUI once.. -_-
most drunken nights are spent waiting in line for some great food from the halal guys!!!!
Just get the mixed plate and if ur not a big fan of the hot sauce... Watch out... It's like having lava. The ultimate late night drunken food spot. This is my go to cheat meal on weekends especially.
If you don't know about this Chicken and Rice operation, it's time to get educated! I told my friend that I COULDN'T WAIT to get Chicken and Rice when I got to New York City. I had it my last trip, and all I was left with was more reasons to come back to this beautiful city. This is his first time in NYC, and he had the NERVE to tell me that I could get chicken and rice ANYWHERE, and that my time would be better spent elsewhere. WRONG. Now he gets it. After a little bit of Halal Cart education, he's ready for his No Child Left Behind New York Chicken and Rice exit exam. Tips: - The more white sauce, the better. - Don't be a hero, go easy on the red sauce. I can handle my heat. This stuff packs a punch! - No salad, no bread, JUST CHICKEN AND RICE! - Sober's great, drunk's better. Service: I get why people love this site. The guys are cool, but most importantly... You can self-serve on the white sauce. Food: If you didn't know already, I love the Chicken and Rice. Why do I need to go to this specific Halal Cart when there's one literally right outside my hotel? I think the chicken's a little crispier here. With all the white sauce, the chicken could get a little soft. A little crisp adds texture to the meal. That little bit goes a long way.
I've been coming to 53rd & 6th for years, it's ?amazing. Always perfect, quick, easy and delicious. They've added extra carts over the years but I still insist on going to the original. Basically it's the best cheapest good in New York. Love it. To those posting about the guys being mean.. Maybe you were rude to them or were disrespectful/drunk. These guys are always super nice to me and always have been since day one. Food poisoning? I think not. You probably put too much red sauce on your platter and that's your own fault.
Having drooled at pictures of the Chicken & Gyro over Rice (USD6.00) at The Halal Guys available online, I formed a vague idea of how the dish would taste (I imagined a deconstructed Turkish/Lebanese shawarma atop Indian biryani rice) even before I took a half-hour subway ride just to queue for it one frigid night back in February. My prediction of the flavours wasn't far off the mark. What I've never experienced, however, was how excellently and seamlessly they melded together in this one unassuming platter. I'll never be able to have Middle Eastern food without comparing it to this one mindblowing experience ever again. Roasted to flavourful tenderness, the gyro (spit roasted lamb) and pulled chicken thigh were moist and well-marinated with coriander, paprika and lemon juice, amongst other spices. Strips of iceberg lettuce added a satisfying crunch to the long-grained basmati rice, which had been infused with the heady scent of turmeric and cumin. The grilled pita bread was pillowy soft and very good as well. I was glad I'd gone easy on the red sauce, as I tried a bit of it in isolation only to find that the reviews below were spot on. It was, however, the mystery white sauce that made all the difference - simultaneously creamy yet refreshing. Whatever it was, it was pure magic. I proceeded to pour every remaining drop of white sauce I'd been given onto the rice. The line at The Halal Guys' original location on 53rd and 6th (in front of Hilton) is apparently a 30 minute long one. I went to the second location (also on 53rd and 6th), located along the street across from MOMA. Was second in line because it was past midnight on a freezing Wednesday night, yay for the cold. In short, visit in terrible weather if you don't wanna wait. Otherwise, just join the line - you'll be more than thankful you did, especially if you're craving some oily grub to cap off a night of drinking.
My chicken meal had gristle bruh. Gristle. I'm never coming back.
Excellent. Truly amazing how you can get such a quality, inexpensive and considerably large meal from a corner food cart. Just go there and see the line stretch half way down 53rd st. ?You will be hard pressed to find a complaint with these guys.
I went to Halal Guys on 9/21/2013 and ordered 4 gyro plates. I presented the Halal guy taking the money two $20 bills. Then the Halal guy taking money repeated the order to the guys preparing the food. Then the guy that was taking the money said that I only gave him $20 dollars. We were arguing back and forth. Luckily the tourist that I am I recorded the whole thing and told the Halal guy taking the order I recorded me taking the order. The Halal guy apologized and gave me the correct change. The food is good for the value but all I have to say is pay attention to the money that you give them.
$6 Chicken and Rice. Yes there's other cart near this one that has their workers wearing the yellow shirt. ? Yes I know they are the same. But it makes me and only me myself feel better knowing that I can wait in line no matter how long it is, that it is this is the legit and original spot for Halal Chicken and Rice. White Sauce, Hot Sauce, Yes please, and a dash of BBQ. Chicken will be dry without the white sauce, so ask them to generously down your meat with it. Hot sauce is super spicy, leaving you with a burn lasting way after you finish your meal.
Best street food in the US!!! Falafel over rice is so delicious, i would say it's one of the best meals that you can get anywhere in the country and it's priced at $6. Truly awesome!
I mean, for over 1000 reviews... any tourist, immigrant, or life time NY-er has to have been here, ate it, and loved it! ?This has to be on any foodie NYC must have list when they are visiting. ?The truck is out and about around 10, ?no mater how many people are there, they will serve up your dish hot and spicy and amazingly seasoned and filling to the brim with food. ?I always get the chicken, since they are the chicken and rice spot. ?For $6 you cannot beat this ?anywhere, even in a 3rd world country. The yogurt sauce amazingly balances out the light ur bootyhole on fire red sauce. ?Just do everyone a favor, and come, enjoy, and realized this is the most amazing thing in america!
After many drunken nights (and spontaneous trips) to 53rd & 6th, you'll realize that the cart across the street from the long lines is the SAME ONE! Trust me, it's the same thing and its just as awesome but the line is usually half the length of the popular one. WARNING: The sauce bottles love squirting unnecessary amounts on your platter. Hence, drenching your food in hot sauce. Believe me when I say this, BE CAREFUL WITH THE HOT SAUCE BOTTLES. Your mouth with light on fire. Almost quite literally. The food is always great. Down side is that the food isn't as fresh as it used to be because of the volume of customers. And yes, the white sauce is the key to make it taste delicious. It's really the idea and the experience of the entire thing that makes it so awesome. Buying a platter of food then sitting on public benches with other fellow customers is not your typical dining experience.(especially when NYC pigeons come eat garbage left behind by litterers) Awesome food cart for spontaneous drunk nights or a nice heavy meal to indulge in.
I miss this place... One of the best places in NY to visit. What I got is lamb and chicken mixed. And i put ranch and barbecue sauce. Cheap, yummy, quick, and addictive!!!
I know, I know...why beat a dead horse.... But I must review! ?These guys have it down to a science it's scary in the best way! ? My fave is the chicken over rice, with salad and insane amounts of white sauce and their addictive chili pepper hot sauce....my mouth waters just thinking about this! The mix combo is not bad either but it's all about the chicken for me! Keep an eye out because when they are packed at this intersection there is another cart setup around the bend on 6th Ave and another across the way on the southeast side of 53rd Street too!
Excellent!!! Awesome food, quick service, and great hours with a friendly staff!!
Yes, this place is cheap, filling and delicious! GET - the half mixed plate of lamb and chicken for about $6. Tip: One is enough to share between two, or you can save it for later. Trust me, we got one each because we big eaters thought we could handle it, but we felt too full. --- Back to my story now...My friend told me specifically that we had to try the ORIGINAL Halal Guys, not the impostors! ?"Go to the corner of 53rd and 6th! On the other side of the corner there are guys wearing the exact same shirts, but they aren't them!" We stood in line which was relatively short, and when we were next in line to get food, ?we saw a line three times as long across the street from us with another set of guys wearing the same shirts! So what do we do??? We leave our place in line and head over there trying to figure out who is he real deal. We ended up going back where we were and got back in line which was now also 3 times as long. We finally got our food, ate it and it was delicious. We still don't know who the real guys were--they looked like bros. ?But, we were satisfied. Cool story, bro? I know long and drawnout....but go here. It's legit bruh!
I only go when there isn't a line... which means I got LUCKY!! BOMB food terrorist style!
I would stand in a line as long as the block, walk for miles, and wait rain or shine for the Halal Guys lamb and rice! My entire first sentence is completely true for 3 separate occasions. I try to take all my out of town visitors to this street cart and it never disappoints!
Solid. I'd likes other right now. :(
Chicken & lamb combination plate, $6, you can't beat it! So delicious and cheap! You get rice, salad and really tasty chicken/lamb. The garlic sauce is awesome and watch out for the hot sauce. It's really spicy!
Delicious..Warning: even if you love spicy food don't go heavy on the red sauce, for your own sake.
Yes, it is that good. If you somehow haven't eaten here yet, your friends aren't lying; the food really is different from just about every other cart in the city. The meat has it's own seasoning, the lettuce is crisper, and the bread is soft and warm. Granted, it's probably helped by the sheer volume of food they put out. They move it all so fast, there's a good chance your food was made 10 minutes ago. If you see the cart 500 feet down the street, those are employees whose sole job is to cook meat and take it down to the main cart surrounded by hungry fans. The cart you order from is really just putting everything into a container when you make an order. White sauce? Yes, unless you somehow dislike yogurt. Red sauce? It's up to you. All of my friends say "You HAVE to get the red," which is false. If you like really spicy sauce, then try it. If you're more sensitive to spice, be cautious. The food will taste good enough without it. The downside? Hands down, how your stomach will feel after. This is a treat for your taste buds, not your digestive tract. I don't think anyone believes this cart would survive as a business once health inspection came along. Not that the food is rotten, but I doubt they splurge on the freshest ingredients. This is a late night favorite for a reason. Sure, it's open during regular business hours, but if you're looking to grab a delicious lunch and you have an important meeting in the afternoon? Maybe save this for another day.
I really don't understand why this place is rated so high. ?I am a native New Yorker, this truck has been here for years and the quality in my opinion is getting worse. ?One of the things that has happened in recent years in the food is no longer really prepared on site, much of it is brought in my van and warmed up in the cart, and I don't think its as good as some of the other carts in the area. ?Typically I go to the one on 49 or 50th on 6th ave, because the quality is better there, and you dont have to wait on line with some of the drunkest and stupidest people in the world for an hour just to get cart food.
Seriously one of the best meals I have while in New York and worth the wait. ?I go to New York once every year and I end up thinking about how great the food was for the whole year till I visit again. ?There are many halal type of food carts, but don't be fooled into thinking their quality are all the same. ?The last time I visited the Halal Guys, they did not even arrive yet and when they finally did...all the surrounding halal wannabe food carts packed up and left to go somewhere else!! Some advice: ?Plan to wait between 30 min - 1 hour in line...yes it gets that long...and yes it's still worth it. ?The red sauce is deadly spicy, but awesome when mixed with the white sauce!
perfection. all i really need to say.
I had high expectations for this cart after reading all of the reviews. ?After watching Wicked, I had to make a stop here to pick up some food to eat back at the hotel. ?I got the chicken/lamb rice combo. ?I usually get weirded out by white sauces since I'm not into anything ranch or mayo-like. ?But I had to put some in it in order for it to not taste so dry. ?The hot sauce is hot...I only put a couple of drops and mixed it up to get some kick to it. ?Overall the food was ok, maybe better after a late night of drinking I'm sure. ?I've never eaten at another halal like cart to compare it to so maybe my opinion is not as valid...but it is what it is!
No words could describe how good this is even in the rain with wind blowing in my face! ?Best plate of food I can get for $6!!!
Greatest food cart in NYC
Very few words can describe the deliciousness that comes out of this cart. I can't even give you any recommendations for what to eat.... just close your eyes and pick something. It's that good. And to the girl that was complaining about how long the line was. Be quiet. The wait is worth it. Listening to you is even worth it.
I've never really understood why this halal truck gets so much hype. In my experience it is only as good or worse than other trucks I have been to. Really don'y go out of your way for this truck. With that said, I love halal and if you're in the area I'd definitely recommend the chick and rice like all the other reviews say.
It's probably one of the better tasting halal food I've had, but I do believe this stuff must taste a lot better when you're having it when you're drunk. I don't think it's life changing good, but the combo plate is good especially when you drown it in the red and white sauce. This one of the best deals in the city. A combo plate here actually fills me up and that rarely happens except at a buffet. The lines are long, but they move really quickly.
Like all the other reviews say ... Chicken & rice! With lots of white sauce. The hot sauce, on the other hand, is H-O-T! No joke. I was dying while I inhaled the food and went to buy water after. I bought the food & walked a few blocks down and ate it at Times Square :)
what else is there to say? This is not your average cart - there is something special. It's talked about in almost mythic status. Their are impersonators, legends, rules, etc. When I lived on long island, we used to make spontaneous drives in for this spot. It still holds up to day, obviously best eaten wasted at three in the morning, it also is fine for dinner.
My first meal in NYC! I was not gonna let a little rain stop me from crossing off my first bookmark to do off my meticulously planned NYC trip itinerary! After hoofing it about 20 minutes to get there thru the drizzle, dude and I looked for the long line leading to the Halal Guys in yellow shirts, as several of my yelp friends reviewed that this is a must stop. On the corner, we did see a cart with yellow shirt guys but no line. I knew we were at the "wrong one" even though most people say its the same guys. But like the lemming that I am, I convinced dude we need to go to the "real" cart where we found a small line. I guess coming on a rainy day did have its advantages with less people waiting. Unlike some other reviewers stated, our guy who took our order was super sweet, not surly. $16 got us, a gyro sandwich, a mix beef and chicken over rice combo and a gyro over rice plate. Sandwich was very tasty. The combo plates were very filling and we loved them. I liked having the colorful saffron rice, the lettuce and pita bread. The yogurt sauce was delicious! After warnings from Janice C and others about their hot sauce and dude sprinkled carefully. He loved it and of course I was burning at one drop. After just half way through our meal, dude was asking if we can squeeze it into our schedule a second time. I was totally up for it but sadly it didn't pan out. But it's definitely going on our next trip back!
If you like chicken and rice/lamb and rice/halal food - this place is heaven. ?No joke. For $6, you can deliciousness, heavenly food, scrumptiousness, whatever great description you want to give. ?I'd recommend the chicken over rice, but I'm sure whatever is served will be just as good. ? Oh and you can go whatever time of day. ?5 AM, noon, 11 PM, it's always open and there's always a line. ?Always. ?But it's well worth the wait. ?No other halal cart tastes the same and no other halal cart will taste the same after you've had this deliciousness.
For the price of 3000 calories, you can experience the taste of heaven, topped with the most delicious ingredient of them all: ?Shame. This place never closes. ?Ever. ?It's one of the reasons why NYC is so amazing. ?Whether you're piss-drunk wasted at 4am or simply craving a lunch that will render you useless for the rest of your work-day, Halal Cart will be there to fulfill your deepest desires. Get the combo over rice, with white sauce. ?Really important note: ?You are not good at eating spicy food. ?It doesn't matter if you're Indian, Thai, ?or own a Ghost Pepper farm---I've watched too many people ruin their evening / lunch / lips / mouth / asshole / life because they were convinced that they were good at eating spicy food. ?Get the spicy sauce on the side and apply sparingly. If you abuse the spicy sauce, you will sweat profusely and spend the rest of your day alone at your desk, breathing audibly, whistling between your teeth as you inhale. ?Coworkers will walk by and ask: "Spicy, eh? What are you eating? Where did you get it? ?Did you go to the east or west cart? ?Derpa derp derp? ?Derp derp." ?You won't be listening, because you'll be wondering where the nearest faucet is, while asking yourself: "Does one really need a cup? ?Are these tears or is it sweat?" Enjoy, but do not abuse the spicy sauce.
Its good food at night when youre starving and theres nothing else available. ?I live in queens and theres been nights when i've gone out at 2am in the rain just to satisfy my craving. ?With that being said, the lines are usually incredibly long and food is sometimes dry so you definitely need to drench it in the white sauce. ?The other halal carts throughout queens seems to have more flavor and i prefer them but maybe thats just an excess of oil..
There is only one place to get chicken & rice when in NYC. Beware of imitators because there are plenty. Some street vendors even have similar colour cart signage & printed staff t-shirts! The Halal Guys are the ones with the long line, but don't worry it moves fast. I order a mix plate of rice, chicken, lamb, salad and bread with the white sauce. Seriously worth the reported 1000+ cals. The guys there are friendly too and for $6 a plate, it's a win-win. Don't forget the extra white sauce and hot sauce on the side. You'll want to take it home.
You can smell the chicken and sauces from blocks away, even amid all the tourists walls! What makes this food cart so special is also bc of a fun memory. It has something to do with sauces, sweats, and excessive amount of helpless intake of Diet Coke :P
best gyro period. no words to express taste!!!
I really don't like this place. I really don't get the hype. Why IS everyone so crazy about it? Aside from the price? Any regular halal stand in the city has more flavor in their meat than this place. The meat is TOO minced up that I taste nothing but just a mixture of flavors - ESPECIALLY the lamb. The lamb here is horrible!! It's so overcooked and dry! Really can't differentiate anything once in my mouth. I dislike the food here so much that I even get annoyed at my own dumb friends for instagramming or facebooking it. Sorry to my friends who read my yelp reviews on the low :)
Hands down one of the most delicious things I've ever tasted IN MY LIFE. I encourage people to go all the time. I always get the combo over rice with white sauce and hot sauce. Be warned the hot sauce is hot, but the white sauce helps cool it down and balance the flavors out. If there's ever a line, it moves really quickly, and just speaks to how good the food is! It's also ridiculously cheap considering how much food they give you. I heard Andrew Zimmern is visiting them for his Travel Channel show and I am not surprised! I crave it all the time, it is one of my favorite foods to eat in NYC.
How can I sum up what 4000 other reviews have said? - Get the chicken and rice - Get extra white and red sauce - Its delicious - Make sure you go to the right cart there are other carts around, make sure you go to the one with the line, thats directly across from the valet exit for the Hilton.
OMG, my mouth starts to drool every time I think about this place. Every time we visit NY we HAVE to visit this place (Even if we're full and we're about to leave). Very flavorful rice, tender meat, amazing sauce (though their hot sauce is pretty spicy so I wouldn't over do it). A DEFINITE MUST TRY!
About as good as street meat gets. We always come here when we're in town, stand in line, and then scoff it down on a bench nearby. ?It is ridiculously delicious for $6. The guys are usually crazy busy, and all those people standing in line at any time of day are right. This is the Real Deal. Just go.
Can't escape the craving for the tongue burning sauce. Usually spend the next day repenting. That's the cycle of life I guess.
Out of all the food carts I've had so far, this tastes the best. It tastes different from everywhere else. Maybe because I added a little bit of bbq sauce. Maybe because their lamb is more ground up and seems to be more fatty/oily. Maybe because everything kind of melded into one smooth, moist, savory morsel. I'd definitely come by again to eat it. I got the Mix for $6 and that thing was ginormous. Definitely ?too full. Highly recommend anyone to check it out once and try!
tl;dr It's good, but you'll be over it with time. --- OK, full disclosure - I've actually eaten easily more than a dozen of their combos, but I've stayed abstinent for the last year or so. Basically, this is like heaven the first few times, but then after awhile you WILL feel bad enough about the grease and the salt (!) to not want to eat it anymore while sober. Being drunk is a different story. This is always the bomb when you're drunk. I've come not to praise the Halal guys, but to mention the puzzling fact that people have not mentioned how SALTY this place is. I think literally there are tablespoonfuls of sodium chloride dissolved in all that chicken and the sauce - I find myself guzzling entire bottles of water every time I cave in to eating here again. Your body 10 years later and your blood pressure will thank you for staying away. Also, just a note to NYC visitors: what the Halal Guys sell is a different version of the predominant NYC "chicken and rice." The Halal Guys meat is first steamed then heated up on the grill, and borrows most of its taste from the marinade and the white/red sauce you pour on. The ubiquitous carts in NYC usually have a more Indian-flavored chicken marinade. The chicken is then grilled and then cut up, with onions tossed in for a final stir-fry before it is served to you. I actually really love the grilled onions that come with chicken and rice in general, but sadly it is lacking at Halal Guys. I've felt the need to correct people when they come to NYC and then say that they've had THE NYC chicken and rice after eating at Halal Guys. You should really try basically any other cart on the street and see what the other kind of chicken and rice tastes like. I've had friends who absolutely hated Halal Guys but love the other. If you want recommendations, there's a guy that's in front of the NYU Palladium dorm (at Union Square) who serves an absolutely fabulous rendition of the latter. :) But despite these jaded ramblings, carry on. Their food does have a strange addictiveness to it, and they'll be around for many years to come.
Love Halal food? Never tried it? No matter what your reason is, im sure you heard about them. 53rd and 6th. Yellow bags and yellow sweatshirts. Not to be mistaken for thier competition that tries so hard. After you lined up, and waited. Ask for the combo, you cant be upset with what you get. Ask for white sauce, and if they say anything else, ask for more white sauce. I swear you cant get enough white sauce. If you're daring, ask for the spicy sauce. I wont, imma stay with my white sauce.
Good late night snack
Eh, what is the big deal? Please tell me...Granted, I'm vegetarian, so I don't get the full experience. I will say that their falafel is AWFUL. SUPER hard, and none of the food was hot. My family kept saying the rice was so good, but I really beg to differ. I do think the meat products are supposed to be very good, and we all really liked the hot sauce. It is indeed very hot. Now explain to me this white sauce thing. Reading the reviews, it seems that it should be a garlic based sauce. I have to say it tasted very mayonnaise-y and very much like a bad ranch dressing. I was not a fan at all, but poured some over to give my crappy falafel some much needed moisture. :( I wanted to like it so much.
This is one of the most popular places on the planet. You get a lot of freshly cooked, tasty food for a low price. It is definitely a step above the other food carts. They now have at least four carts, so if the line at the original one is too long, you can go to the one across the street or down the block. Just make sure it says, Halal Guys. One tip, the hot sauce is too much even if you like spicy food. Best if you take just a few drops of the hot sauce and mix it with the container of the white sauce, then pour the mixture on your food. That will give you enough fire without burning a hole in your stomach! Enjoy!
Literally the best food cart places I've ever eaten at. I am so going to miss this back in CA!
UPDATE: So I tried a different halal place for comparison. A cart on Broadway & 72nd. At this cart, they served fragrant flavorful lamb, roasted onion, cucumber, lettuce, and red pepper over rice. Only a bit of sauces were needed. The food did not need to be doused in sauce to taste good. And I didn't feel like shit after eating it. Never again will I go to the Halal Guys.
This is the only halal spot you should go to if you are visiting NYC. Can't go wrong with this place.$6 for a plate. I think out of all the food I ate on my vacation this place was the one that gave the most bang for the buck. I would suggest getting the hot sauce on the side, that thing is super spicy an having too much would ruin the plate. Unless you like super spicy. But I would say a few drops of that spread around would be enough. Had me sweating while eating outside on a cold day lol. Also get extra white sauce. Very delicious. Line is long but shouldn't be in line for more than 20 mins
I want to know why no one ever goes to the second Halal stand? I really find it hard to believe that the one spot everyone seems to hog and make ?this enormous line, is a lot better then the other stand which barley has as many people and it's the same company! I'm not trying to offend anyone but I would really like to know the answer? I don't see the difference, i've ate from both. Well, here's my review in general of the famous Halal Guys, I think their food is good. I guess they are better then most other Halal spots around the area (this does not count the second cart on the same street) and it seems the give a bigger portion then most. Sadly portion isn't important, because the fact I can't finish it, sort of means i waste it. So instead I get a new spoon and fork and go looking for homeless people to offer them my left overs, because trust me my left overs are big enough to feed another person. For six dollars, it's a pretty good deal, and plus i get to do my good deed of the day. I like putting the white sauce, don't really like the hot sauce. I like lamb over rice, it's Halal food that makes the perfect lamb, so therefore their is no other option in my book. It's the best sort of plate when you're really going all out for a meal, and I hope you're planning to walk around after that, cause you will end with a full tummy in the end.
i might get a lot of slack for saying this, but I don't think 53rd & 6th is good at all. Unpopular opinion, but I've had better halal in Queens than 53rd. My qualms: The meat is under seasoned White sauce.. Tastes like white sauce. It was no different than the white sauce served at my halal cart. Everything precooked to order Sure, it's cheap for a large amount of food... but doesn't live up to the hype. Maybe third time's a charm and I'll come back to edit this review.
Best freaking Halal Food in New York. Awesome!!! This is the main location, but they have another one across the street. Same owner, same staff, same food. Pick your spot in the end. Same Delicious Halal Food in the end. They also have other locations scatter throughout the city and they opened an actual restaurant in the East Village. I got myself a chicken over rice. 1. Cheap- $6 2. Gigantic portions 3. Lots of chicken, rice, and veggies. 4. Good white sauce, but I avoided the hot sauce this time around. The hot sauce is Fire Alarm Hot!!! Even a dash of it is really hot. I remember the first time I had it. I drenched it in hot sauce, because I like spicy food. Horrible choice. My mouth was burning on fire. Call the fire department. 5. Worth waiting in line for. 6. Simply The Best. Very popular stand. In my opinion, the best halal stand and it's cheap. Can't beat that.
All my NY friends told me to go to Halal Guys on 6th and 53rd. And I finally did. The line was so long for this little food cart! So I was getting excited because it probably was good. The wait wasn't too long. They were very quick with making food and serving us! Chicken and Rice was what I got. I took some extra spicy sauce.. Holy Jesus. Burned my mouth but it was SO good!!! The white creamy sauce tasted like Ranch with Greek Yogurt! I love them two together. The portion is so big I say 2 people can eat one. And it's so cheap for NY! $6.99! This is the ORIGINAL Halal Guys! They have one right across the street but its not it!!
Best hot sauce in town lol.....
Aw man, 3000+ reviews -- of course, we had to be the one that had the bad experience. We went here on a Monday around 4pm to pick up a mixed bowl. At this point in our vacation, we've already had practically every Halal truck in Manhattan. We decided, man, MOST of them have been pretty terrible. And at this point, our favorite has been 49th and 6th truck (in front of First Republic Bank and the Rock). We walk up -- no line. AWESOME! We see a huge pile of lamb on the grill, and 3 employees working. We order a mix bowl -- 2 sides of white sauce, 1 side of red as Yelp suggested. We walk over to the sitting area and crack it open, ready to enjoy the meal that over 3000+ Yelpers recommended. OMG, MAJOR EPIC FAIL disappointment. The lamb, chopped up in little bits, reminded us of ground beef. Dry crumbles. Thats OK, we ordered a mixed bowl -- we got chicken to save us! No...it was dry too :( That's OK...that's OK...the rice, no way the rice is bad. It was. Well, you know what, sauce. White sauce on ANYTHING saves the dish! Wrong, the white sauce was so plain in our opinion. The only thing we would say that was accurate was: 1. The hot sauce is HOT. Be mindful of how much you consume. 2. The pita bread was good. What a let-down. The 49th and 6th truck was SO MUCH better on many levels. If we were to rank our experience at Halal Guys with every cart we've had in the area, sorry but they were last on our list. Yes, we made sure it was Halal Guys..."we're different"...the guys with the bright yellow shirts. Great, now we're hungry for 49th and 6th...
What can I say, despite the long lines here at this cart the food is so worth the wait! This is a must try if you are not from New York! I have never eaten anything like this in California and boy was this meal delicious!
There are already thousands of reviews for these guys, but I needed to join in and dole out 5 stars for some of the best street meat in new york (especially after 4am). Get the mixed plate without the salad (liekly the least hygenic part of the entire operation). The hot sauce is necessary, and the white sauce will help you survive the dish in case you put in too much red. It's $5 during the day and they add a $1 drunken surcharge at night (smart operators). It's really good and worth the overpriced $15 cab ride each way from meatpacking (or southside) at ungodly hours.
nothing more to ask for on a thursday or friday night... i mean any day of the week! simple, fast, gets the job done.
Umm...I cannot even count the times we've gotta food here...Like seriously whenever we didnt have dinner ready and had to get takeout somewhere??? We'd just walk over and get this!! And now that we gotta drive?? If we're going by it you better believe we swing by and get some...YUM YUM YUM!!! Mom is a die hard chicken over rice fan with harissa on it. Fiance is a combo of chicken and lamb over rice with harissa on it. Me?? straight up lamb over rice w. tons of white sauce and harissa on it. ?LOVE the super hot kick that'll melt your lips off and the cooling creamy goodness of their white sauce. ?I like it best when both are on the side so i can just drip or put on as much as i want (whoa, drooling while writing this!). Seriously good cart food.. Like SERIOUS. and the price? hello!! yes you'll have long lines...so if you want you can go to any other corner nearby and get the same company serving you but if lines arent too long?! this is the corner i pick. ?Altho we did notice we like the meat right before the 7pm shift change...we like the lamb extra crispy!!! so good...
One of the more delicious carts in New York and every now and then I have a craving for it. It's close to work so it's convenient, and though there are usually lines it goes quite quickly.
Yes, this place is legit. Try it and you will love it. So many favors in your mouth...the hot sauce is atomic but so delicious at the same time. Make sure you buy yourself an ice cold beverage too. Best $6 every spent.
On my recent trip to NYC, I was determined to come here. Staying at POD51, which is on 51st between 2nd and 3rd, my friends and I were definitely on a budget. Us college students can't be dishing out $20+ per meal! So we came here. the walk was quite terrible. It was windy, incredibly cold at about 35 degrees Fahrenheit, and bundled up in a scratchy scarf, we started walking the intense 6-7 blocks here. Let me tell you, it felt like the farthest walk of my life. Couldn't feel my face. Couldn't feel my fingers. Couldn't feel my toes. Alright, enough with the rant, but finally we got to the food cart. Our long awaited pita bowl was finally here. We got the Gyro Pita bowl with white and red sauce. Get both. Seriously. If you don't, you're missing out. But, GET WATER OR ANY FORM OF LIQUID. The red sauce is quite deadly. Deadly yet amazingly delicious. At about $6 a plate, it was a really good deal for the portion we got. It was sooooo good. I want to go back!!!! I've been trying to find something similar in the Bay Area, but still haven't yet :/ it's just THAT good. 5/5 - enough said. DELICIOUS. CHEAP. FAST. Will for sure go back when I return to NYC.
I had chicken platter with rice and pita bread covered with white and red sauce. ?The meat had flavor but to me it was like any other cart food and wouldn't stand in line again for it.
This is specifically for the court that comes out at 7 pm with the infamous super long line. ?First of all the food is actually cooked at a different chart and bought to this cart. ?As a result, there is a consistent supply of meat even when there is never ending line of customers. There is a second chart across from the street that is from the same company that doesn't usually have any line while serving the same food. ?However when someone tell you it is the same chart, you just can't seem to believe them. ?Waiting on a huge line seem to add to the experience like you worked to earn your food. Recently while waiting on this line, one of the employee handed out free reusable bag. ?This confirm waiting on a huge line for no particular reason was worth it since I got a bag out of it. Now lets get to the food. ?It is meat that been chopped so finely that there are only tiny chucks to the point that the meat is almost fluffy ?The combination of rice, meat and white sauce make this an amazing meal. ?After you finish your plate, you will feel regret and sick to your stomach due to the insane amount of calories you just consume. ?During the meal you just don't want to stop. The hot sauce here is also super hot. ?I once challenge myself by putting on a lot of it on my plate but I soon regretted due to the heart burn I got. ?I love hot sauce and it is not an usual occurrence. I prefer the chicken over the lamb but I usually get the combination to get a taste of both.
That white sauce. Seriously, it's unreal. People who give this place one or two stars are probably the worst people ever. Make sure you get enough white sauce and just a dab of hot sauce. This stuff can wreak havoc on your stomach if you eat it too often, but man, that chicken and rice is just damn good when you're craving it. I don't find myself out drinking in Midtown West, but when I do, I make sure to stop by. Just as a tip, my friends and I did a taste test, and the cart on 52nd and 6th is just an extension of the ? cart on 53rd and usually doesn't have crazy long lines. But if you want the full chicken and rice experience, by all means, wait in the long line. You might call it a rite of passage. But if you're just damn hungry, go to the cart on 52nd.
Disclaimer - we have not tried other halal places in nyc. BUT... the food here is super yummy! The white sauce is very good, chicken is super juicy & tender, rice is cooked just right. Even the lettuce & tomatoes are good with the white sauce. The hot sauce is very spicy! Be careful! We also tried the combo - yummy as well! $6 - huge portions. We stayed in nyc for 4 days - came here on day 1 and actually came back here again right before we left the city. Totally worth a visit.
Best chicken & lamb with rice-Halal- in NYC!!! Customers are lined up until the 4am closing but lines moves really fast. Not unusual to see 50-60 people sitting on the nearby fountain edge or steps eating at midnight. They have a cart on both sides of 6 Ave @ W 53rd.
Yup the famous halal cart. Definitely go for the experience and to try it. once you do, you become a regular when the craving hits you. I get either the lamb on rice, or mixed lamb and chicken. You know it's unhealthy and laden with calories (2000!) but enjoy once in awhile. For 6 bucks can't go wrong. Add the white sauce in generous amounts, mix it all up, dig in. I avoid the hot sauce, ruins the taste for me. It's not gourmet, but it's good. Don't go to the wrong cart. Daytime it's across the street farther from the Hilton. Evenings it's nearer, corner of 53rd and 6th.
I ate there. It was really good. Probably the best of the Halal trucks..but at the end of the day, it's still just street meat. Very similar taste as the others. More flavorful and chopped smaller, but still has that familiar taste. Don't get me wrong..it was delicious, but I wouldn't go out of my way to get street meat again. However if in the area, sure. There are several in the area so be sure you go to the truck where it says "We are different" or something like that. I had the mixed place. Everything as expected. A TON of food.Way too much actually. By the time I was done, I was over it. Maybe the pita next time. There's no reason to eat that much food.
the long ass line is worth it!
Urika! I've found the ideal lunch spot where I only have to spend $6 to get full on super delicious lamb, rice, lettuce and pita bread. The line may look long but they are very fast at taking your order and sending you away with a wonderfully smelling to-go bag. (I would recommend getting a platter of anything over a sandwich just because it'll be very likely that your sandwich will get messy.) I've only ordered the lamb, which I was so incredibly happy with, but I also had a bite of someone else's falafel and it was rather dry and not so flavorful. So if you're a vegetarian, maybe look elsewhere for your falafel.
For my first time I just took the falafel and it was really good!
The food is definitely good. If you are going to experience a Halal Cart at NYC, then this is a good choice. But is this cart worth the incredibly long wait, especially if you are a local? Just go to the Halal cart around your neighborhood. Honestly, can't even taste the difference with the hot sauce, white sauce all over the platter.
This is just unbelievable. The checkin on rice is from heaven! Must try when you are in NYC
Line was long, which is typical in NYC, but moved quicker than expected. ?Only waited for about 15 min. ? Food was $6 for a combo plate that was packed full. ?I like how you can sauce your own plate up as you like it. Tasted great, would definitely go back again. Only complaint is that the poland spring waters were $1.50. ?They should be $1. ?If you're a New Yorker, you know this is true, and need no explanation why. ?Maybe cos tourists know about this place. small Polland Spring=$1
Better than any high priced, long waiting, fancy shmancy NY restuarant. ?For a small price you get mounds of delicious food. ?And it's come in come out kind of service. ?No hassle or anything. I was in NY during Hurricane Sandy, and you know what was one of this few places that was open? ?This place. ?That's dedication.
I've been here when the craze all began, and I must say the guys have come a long way. They've even been featured on the travel channel, and have their own facebook and instagram page. Now you can find one of their carts in about every corner of the area. Yessss there's others!!! It's not just that one everyone waits in front of by the Hilton. They say it's different honestly there isn't, but hey if that works for you why not? lol. I won't lie it was wayyy better before, however you still can't beat the price and the hours. It definitely hits the spot after a long night especially when you're intoxicated!! Don't skimp on the sauce it's the best part and if you like spicy definitely try their hot sauce too!!
Chicken and rice with spice was really good. Now they have multiple carts so dont be confused with which of the two carts on each side of the street to go to. If you see one has a shorter line go to that one. Dont forget to order a ginger ale with it to help your stomach with the spice :)
This cart always has a line but the wait is well worth the wait. ?Buy the mixed grill, lamb is good, chicken is moist,... add lots of white sauce with red sauce to taste (very spicy)... eat and enjoy the sunny weather.
Which one is the real one? They're all the same! Haha. I wish the Halal Carts in Philly and NJ were as good. There is something about the sauce and the hot sauce that other places cannot duplicate. It's really amazing! If you haven't been here go for it. The line may be long but it is well worth the wait. You cannot beat the price.
First stop after arriving in NY and dropping off my luggage was to head to the Halal Guys. Since my flight arrived at night it was perfect timing because they don't open until 7pm. The line was pretty long when I got there with my friend, but it moves fairly quickly. I got the mixed chicken & gyro plate and smothered it with white sauce and some hot sauce. Boy was it delicious. The meat is so tender and flavorful and they give you so much food for only $6, which is a bargain. Just remember that the sauces are located on the side of the cart after you pick up your plate and that the hot sauce is in the rack in the top right corner. You don't need too much of it, since it's pretty spicy. The non-white sauce bottle located in the larger rack is actually BBQ sauce. How do I know? I put some on my plate before I realized it wasn't the hot sauce, d'oh! And remember it's cash only.
Great value for spicy chicken and lamb, but avoid the wait and buy from their cart on 53rd and 7th.
Long line, but the best option for middle of the night hunger pangs.
My friend told me to try their chicken over rice, I did, it was amazing! And now I keep going back! They have actually more than one cart. There are usually one long line for the cart on 6th & 53rd, but no line for the other two closely adjacent, one on broadway and 53rd, the other on the other side of 6th & 53rd, ?you just need to make sure they are the same people wearing the same uniform. The portion is so big, I usually get one bowl for two meals. It's still delicious the next day after you heat it with microwave. Seriously one of the best thing in NYC
I was really looking forward to trying this place, and they did not disappoint! I felt lucky that there was only maybe 25 people in front of me. Oh god, soo good!!! Make it a point to come here.
Definitely not over-rated at all. The portions are huge and they give you pita bread. However, I don't stand on that ridiculous 1-2 hour line to get some halal food. Not as many people know this, but the same owner has a cart right across the street from the original, and you get the same food with almost no waiting time. Skip the line and go across the street. At the end of the day, the food is from the same company. The red sauce is RIDICULOUSLY HOT HOT HOT! I just go for the white sauce. If you think you're brave enough, go for the red sauce, but bring a gallon of water with you because it's no joke. I just heard that they are opening up a restaurant in the East Village. SWEET!!
It is not white sauce, it is crack sauce because it's so damn addicting!!
Get the combo plate (half chicken/ half lamb) and smother it in white sauce. It's greasy goodness that you can't help but like. Hot sauce is REALLY hot. I love spicy food and I couldn't handle this.
Seriously Yelp? 4.5+ stars? The problem is the 50% of reviewers giving this place 5 stars... they are either dining-while-drunk and or a tourist. Or both. Let me address the drunks first. Hey, I'm with you guys. When you're sloshed, just give me oil, carbs, and protein, and it's absolute ambrosia. Exhibit A: pub wings. Exhibit B: dollar pizza. However, surely we must realize that none of these things objectively deserve 5 stars in any universe. Dear tourists and visitors: please actually try alternative halal places before crowning this place as the king of all street food. I mean, I feel you guys. Yes, halal is awesome. Thank you for the enjoying one of the finest recent culinary innovations of our fine city! And if Halal Guys was the first halal experience ever in my life, yeah maybe I'd be blown away and give it 5 stars. But know: this is NOT the end-all-be-all of NYC halal food. Let me start by what Halal Guys do well: they are extremely consistent, their ingredients are of above average provenance by street food standards, and their white sauce is solid. Also $6 is actually a good deal for quality halal (which they no doubt are.) Self-serve sauces is also a big plus, and sauces to go on the side are hard to find at other carts. Pretty big portions too. But... while their chicken is steamed and soft, it's hardly seasoned or spiced. The lamb here is crumbled and ground into nothingness. It's insubstantial. The rice is actually pretty good, but other carts have better rice with real seasoning, herbs, and flavor. The harissa-style hot sauce is unfortunately laced with capsaicin extract and really exists for either tempting fate or torturing the clueless. There are other halal cart hot sauces with amazing flavor AND heat, and also won't cause extreme intestinal distress. Other carts will give you more "extras" or add-ins besides a few chunks of bland pita (e.g. falafel, grilled onions, Middle Eastern pickles, A VEGGIE OTHER THAN LETTUCE.) Here are some places that are actually in the running for the best halal in NYC: Sammy's in Jackson Heights, Queens Kwik Meal (very close to here) King of Falafel and Shwarma Summary: it's a 3-star cart; it's good but not great halal.
I didn't really find this place exceptionally better than other similar places but my falafel sandwich was bangin'. I had some of my friends platter and it was also delicious. Whatever you order comes with a lot of food so you get a good bang for your buck. Good food for a good price. Not much more that needs to be said.
Only street meat I will eat (chicken over rice). Line is generally pretty long. Go easy on the hot sauce (recommend taking a tiny cup and dripping it yourself, they put WAY too much on). Get extra white sauce. Chicken is better than the lamb/gyro meat, but both are serviceable.
I really don't get what makes this street vendor so much better than any other except it's location. It's street meat and nothing more yet I walk by it daily on the way home and it's 50 people in line and another 100 eating it. ?I've had the $6.00 gyro with rice and the $4.00 Gyro sandwich. I'd do the sandwich again before the platter. I suspect this is the go to spot for tourists who all want to tell about eating NYC street food.
4000+ reviews can't be wrong. I had the chicken gyro. Dad had the lamb plate. Tasty to the last bite. The guys are really nice and funny too. Can't go wrong.
Shared a bowl of the combo gyro and chicken rice plate and man did it hit the spot!!!! The smell alone makes you salivate with anticipation. It's a huge bowl of rice and meat with pita bread. The white sauce and hot sauce mixed together makes it a deadly and delicious combo-- beware tho, the hot sauce is REALLY spicy! I shared with a friend and we were unable to finish it, but it was just as yummy when we reheated it in the morning. Definitely a most go when you visit New York!
I'm lucky that my friend took me here one cold night. I know that I will be missing this taste after I go home to Turkey.(the land of kebabs) Go try if you haven't and then recommend to your friends. Share the love.
Lines are quite long but they have several stalls a few blocks from it. Not sure why the one near the hotel has the longest line. Perhaps because there are benches nearby where you can eat. Servings are big - two can share - but you will love every bite of it. This is defintiely part of the NYC experience!
Always awesome, always busy, always spicy, always satisfies. Accept no substitute.
Worth a try once. That's it. After you try it, you realize it's been hyped up to the sky. Taste is underwhelming. Price is decent, for the sheer amount of food you get.
This place is DELISH! Glad we got to try it when there wasn't a line (a little after lunch). I ordered the chicken sandwich and it came in a flatbread with lettuce. The chicken was extremely tasty and full of flavor. (it was pulled chicken) and good with the white sauce with a little bit of red. My bf got the gyro platter. OMG soo good. The rice was amazing with the gyro that was full of flavor. We added both sauces (beware of the red sauce it is extremely spicy). So glad we got to try this place. It is truly worthy of the 4.5 stars! The halal guys are super efficient at preparing their food and getting it ready to go. It's a must try in NYC it's close to the moma so stop there for lunch!
If I ever ever wanted to leave the California sun and move to New York it would be ONLY because there are amazing food stands at 2:30 am on every corner. Yes I would probably freeze to death on my way to these food stands BUT I would die happily knowing I have a delicious gyro in my tummy even though I am surrounded by 20 creepy guys speaking to me in all sorts of foreign languages as they swallow bites of the gyro far too large for their mouth. After a nice time at a hookah place nearby, we walked across the street to find the ever so famous Halal Guy's cart. If this cart has made commotion all the way across the nation, then it must be fabulous. And it was. The chicken gyro sandwich was delicious, hot, flavorful and just warms your soul. Best $5 I have ever spent on a gyro.
The best place to get chicken and lamb over rice in the city hands down. ?The food is cheap and delicious. ?Their white sauce is to die for, just be careful not to go crazy with their hot sauce cause its really spicy. ?Its the best food to eat after a drink. ? Their is always a really long line though.
The fact that the halal guys only have 4.5 stars is a travesty. I'll wait on any line for this stuff. It's so cheap! The white sauce! The red sauce! I want some now! "We Are Different"... what a beautiful slogan...
I've been here so many times over the past year after discovering it, that I got the perfect white sauce / hot sauce / bbq sauce combo. The guys at the stand work FAST and diligently. The line gets ridiculously long on some nights, and I've been there in all types of weather. On a normal summer night, or a freezing cold night in the dead of winter, people still stand out there for their bowl of chicken & rice... understandably! $6/bowl, and it's enough for 2 girls to share one. I can finish a bowl by myself, but I'll feel super guilty (1,600 calories per bowl) and super stuffed if I do get greedy. I'm from North Jersey and a bunch of my friends and I come up to 53rd & 6th JUST to fulfill our halal cravings at night. Yup, we pay $13 toll to have a $6 bowl. A girls gotta do what a girls gotta do! P.S.- Don't settle for any other chicken & rice cart other than these guys, no matter how long the line. You'll be the next on line before you know it.
If people suggest that Times Square is one of the intersections you've got to visit in NYC, screw that, 53rd and 6th is where you need to be at. This is where I got to experience one of the best food I've had on my trip to New York. Normally, I don't really do lamb or really know what 'halal' was, but I figured I'd try something new, being on vacation and all, and I am so glad I did. For somewhere around the price of $5-$6, they give you rice, lamb (or chicken and beef), lettuce, and the white sauce....oh my goodness....seriously, it's like crack. It's so freaking good and addicting. Still don't trust me on how good this food is? I was literally waiting in line at 12 a.m. when I had a 6 a.m. flight back to Cali, and I wasn't even completely packed yet. Did I lose sleep? Hell yes! Was it worth it? Eff yes!
Oh. My. God. I was introduced to this place by a friend who lives close by and boy am I happy for it! A few of us needed to grab a quick bite to eat before seeing Jurassic Park 3D (which is awesome in case you're wondering) and this cart was on the way. I got rice with chicken, lamb, and white sauce and OH MY GOD it's SO delicious!! None of us could clear our plates either because they were PACKED with food. Not only that but it's c-h-e-a-p. All in all I think I spent about $6 for a bowl and a soda. Needless to say this place has been on my mind, so I will most definitely be back.....a couple of times. I mean, I need to share this with my girlfriend and then again with my dad right? Don't pass it by if you're hungry.
I came here right after a Knicks game and was eager to get my hands wrapped around the famous foil plate. The line wasn't as long as I expected it to be but regardless, the guys take and prep the orders very quickly. After finding some make-shift seating on this stone water structure by the cart, I saw the rest of the Knicks fans flocking to the halal cart line. ? I had the chicken and gyros combo plate which truly is a plate of warm goodness, and is a lot of food for six bucks. If I was a hobo in NYC, I'd be panhandling to eat this every night. The chicken and gyros were flavorful and juicy, the rice was also flavorful and moist, the pita bread was super soft and fresh, and the lettuce added that nice crunch for texture and a cooler contrast against the warm food. I myself went back up to the cart several times to add more white sauce to my plate. The hot sauce definitely packs heat but makes the plate that much more better.
I live in California we eat off "roach coaches" and alley dog carts down here as a late night snack. BUT THIS HERE... IS AMAZING HALAL GUYS know whats up ... I couldn't believe it a bowl and 2 sodas for 9$ cant beat that ! .... I cant wait to return this winter after our first visit sept 2012 to get my grub on !! Chicken and rice Soooooo good! I WILL BE BUYING 2 BOTTLES OF WHITE SAUCE TO BRING BACK HOME !
This place proves that old notion that some of the best food is served on the street. The chicken gyro is great please try.
Awesome !! Best "chicken on rice " .
It was alright, I'm not quite sure what all the hype was over it.
best food ever
I wish there was a way to give a friendly, non-determinate shrug for a rating as opposed to three stars. ?It's middle of the road halal cart food. ?Large-ish portion, tasty-ish flavors. ?Greasier than most. ?Still good. ?Would only go back if I was within a three block radius. ?At least I can say I've been. If you're going to make a special trip for halal cart, go to King of Shwarma & Falafel in Astoria. ?Take the N / Q to Broadway, walk the one block towards the C-Town and get a larger, tastier portion for the same price.
You probably need to be starving or stark drunk to enjoy this chicken/lamb over rice combo. Since I was neither when I tried it, I didn't quite care for it. The chicken was all dark meat (not a fan), the white sauce was okay, but the red sauce was totally wicked. Eat with caution, it's spicy as hell! The lamb over rice was better, but not enough to blow me away. All I can say is both were fresh and plentiful. Enough to feed a small army. And yes, the falafels were really delicious. Enough to make me stand in line for The Halal Guys? Only at 2 am when there are no other options.
Drunk? Check. Hungry? Slightly. Ready for a giant plate of food for $5 or $6 depending on what you want? Always. Line is always long, but it moves quickly. Guys at the cart are still in a good mood around 10pm, but don't expect them to be later on in the night because of all the rowdy people and the long hours. There are no words to describe the chicken and rice with loads of white sauce (mayo/ranch-based) and bbq sauce. It tastes like creamy heaven in your mouth. Wash it down with a beer and feel that slick, guilty, greasy goodness in the morning when you wake up hungover as hell.
Good feed, partner LOVED the gyro. With all the hype I was expecting a lot more. However, would eat there again, as it was $6 for a large, decent meal.
i just inhaled a ton of street meat... and loved every second of it. can't beat the quantity you get for the money (giant serving of rice, meat, veg, sauce... only $6!)- and it's actually cooked well. the meat isn't overdone or fatty (though perhaps the gyro meat is a bit overly salty). the meat, rice, and veggies pair well together and the lettuce adds a nice textural component. white sauce = delicious red sauce = hooooly hot stuff. i recommend you get it on the side and proceed with caution. whoa, mouth on fire! open late, always a line... gotta be something good. i've had other street meat before (insert giggle), but the halal guys is definitely the best.
Yep, it's delicious. But dont worry so much about the line - you can go to the one across the street (SE corner of the intersection) and they are the same guys/same company. Very delicious and worth every one of my six dollars. Perhaps the best bang for your buck in NYC.
I had taken this home every single time I ever came here, which means I didn't eat it for at least 30 minutes and sometimes longer. ?It is still so good even if you need to heat it back up but OMG it is so freaking good if you eat it right there when you order it. ?I had no idea. ?It took me like 3 years to finally do that. ? I always order lamb and rice, and I think the reason its so fantastic right away is the salad doesn't have a chance to wilt. ?But even with all that I've obviously found a place in my heart for this deliciously cheap and filling meal. ?I also recommend getting like 2-3 containers of white sauce. ?The red sauce is some kind of crazy spice that I can't really handle for some reason, but I always try to eat it with it anyways.
Had chick and rice.
Halal Cart is always best when it's 3AM, you're drunk and ready to grub. It's even better when you don't have to wait in line too long. The guys here run like a machine, there's at least 10 of them manning the cart, and another 3-4 of them cooking the meat at another cart. The white sauce here is just better than any other cart around. $6 buys you a combo of lamb + chicken over rice, just drench that in the white sauce, bbq sauce (who doesn't LOVE bbq sauce?) and just a tiny dash of hot sauce. Seriously, you don't want to underestimate the hot sauce. Don't mess up your entire plate thinking you love your food "spicy". A generous squeeze will seriously f- up your taste buds. Don't say I didn't warn you.
Had the chicken and gyro combo over rice. The meat was flavorful and moist as was the rice. Tastes great irrespective of the price and it was only $6. And they only charge $1 for the drinks unlike a street vendor half a block down who wanted to charge $2. Try the mango drink.
What's there to say that hasn't already been said over three THOUSAND times. ?It's the best. ?PERIOD. But don't forget extra white sauce!
Probably over-rated but never disappoints.
I dont understand the hype for this halal cart (though my hubby is a big fan - hope he doesnt read this review :P). There are tons of other carts who serve better food than this in NYC. There's a big line so its almost like ordering ur food at a restuarant ?and the smell as u go near the cart the smell just takes away ur appetite. I hate their sauce - have eaten better white and red sauce than their. Meat is too blant and dry.
Amazing street food. Juicy chicken and love the white sauce and pita. They give large portions for a pretty cheap price of $6 for the combo plate. Worth every one of the 2000 calories that make up that plate.
The food was so good we can actually share a meal between two people.
tasty, spicy, cheap. what more can you ask for? the long queue says it all
I give them 3 stars relative to other carts. I honestly don't get what the big deal is. I've tried their halal as well as other carts' halal. It tastes the same to me. The Halal guys do have a better presentation I admit.
If I'm drunk in NY, I want me some chicken & rice. I always talk to my cali friends about how much I need dat chicken and rice but they just don't get it. In order for my cali friends to understand what I mean, I compare the dish to the dirty dogs available after a hard night of clubbing in California. ?A meal that's delicious sober but better consumed when drunk. If you're going to get some chicken and rice, please consume it correctly. A LOT OF HOT SAUCE. A LOT OF WHITE SAUCE. Don't forget to consume A LOT of alcohol beforehand. Your mouth will burn. Your stomach will hate you. But, you won't regret a thing. :)
There was a massive line, like in the pictures, but it went by very fast. So don't be deterred by the line. The food wasn't as awesome as I had anticipated, considering there are over 4+k reviews on yelp. I got the chicken and gyro combo, and a falafel sandwich. White sauce kind of reminded me of a really creamy ranch dressing. Their red sauce was really spicy (and I have pretty high tolerance to spicy). The gyro rice plate was pretty good. Falafel was weak and kind of dry. It's a lot of food for $10 ($6 for gyro and chicken combo, $4 for falafel sandwich). 4 stars, because it just wasn't very extraordinary.
I thought I wrote reviews for this years ago, but here goes. ?Nothing's changed here. ?As always, cheap, fresh tasting, huge portions, nice guys and enough to feed you for a few days. ?It's great to grab on the go or have a meal outside the CBS station. ?They give you a generous portion of white sauce when requested. ?$6.00 can't beat this massive portion.
Food was great. ?Portions were great. ?Price was incredible. ?Service was impressive. I'm a full grown man, and had to break this meal into two meals. ?The fact that I paid $6 for it makes it the best deal in NY as far as I'm concerned. ?Also, despite the huge line, dude took several minutes to allow a picky member from our group sample a few items and discuss her food allergies. ?He didn't have to do that; but the fact that he did really stuck with me. In a city where I'm excited to get my lunch meal under $20; I couldn't be happier with the food, the price, and the service.
I've visited New York City many times and have never bought food from a cart. After hearing how amazing the chicken and rice was from my cousin, we stopped here as part of our food trip. The chicken and rice with the white sauce was so delicious! The portions are huge for $6, and we split the platter among 4 of us. The Halal guys are super nice and we waited in line for only about 10 minutes (granted, it was a Tuesday night at about 10pm). There are about 4 carts that say they are the 'original' Halal guys on the same block, so I'm not sure which one is the real one, but I was quite satisfied!
Simply the best lamb/beef/chicken and rice spot around. No other place can match the taste or price. Their mysterious white sauce is legendary, I could chug a bottle of it. I suggest turning your platter into soup with it, it's that good. I also suggest avoiding the hot sauce, unless you want your tongue sweating profusely. Now there's people who complain about the lines, and this annoys me since they have added another cart across the street which always has a much shorter line. Yet people refuse to order from there. They insist that there's a taste difference (according my taste buds there isn't) or wish to order from the original cart (a better reason but after the first time, this argument loses reason).
YES!!! Line is worth the wait. I have not been able to find better halal food, so I am always grateful when a friend wants to stop by. Lamb over rice with white sauce. It gets really busy late at night, so you have to put your own sauce on it, which can get annoying because the guys always put just the right amount on.
Legitimately one of the best meals I have ever had. I came here while visiting NYC, and I spent the next year and a half hopelessly trying to recreate a similar meal in my kitchen. There isn't a whole lot to be said that hasn't already been mentioned in the FOUR THOUSAND reviews this cart has. I got a Gyro, and it was the best Gyro I have ever had. The pita is pillow soft, the meat is delicious, the white sauce is amazing, and the red sauce packs a hot punch that I found to add a great element to the meal. Do some research before you go and make sure you visit one of the real Halal Guys carts. I am told there are some impostors at the same location. The one with the massive line is the easiest way to tell which is considered the real deal.
Went to this spot twice in May of this year before I left to go back to Cali, and still craving it! I am willing to wait in line as long as I get their chicken and rice!!! Service was fast & food is the best in NYC.... Can't wait to go back
Halal cart's chicken and rice is the absolute "must-have" NYC staple. Apparently only one cart is the TRUE Halal Guys' cart? (There's one on practically every corner at this intersection). I'll be honest, I cannot taste or tell the difference, but maybe I haven't had it enough times to be able to tell. Be cautious with that hot sauce, it can light your mouth on fire. But it really is just so darn good. ESPECIALLY after a long night of bar hopping. It's cheap, it's fast, and sometimes it's not favorable waiting in those lines, especially if you're visiting during winter, but it's WORTH IT. I'm craving it so bad just thinking about it. Do it. You won't regret it.
Yes its that good. Throw some white sauce, bbq sauce, and just a little bit of hot sauce (paste). Be prepared to wait on the long lines. For your first time it is worth the wait. For every other time just go to the other end of the block on Broadway...same guys just no lines.
Good meat/ rice and it's really cheap. I wish there were more veggies though... But honestly a bit over hyped. It's great if you want a cheap decent lunch in midtown, but it's not a must see tourist attraction (unless you really want to taste street food - because some of the other places might not have the same kind of turn around and therefore freshness.) That said, the line moves pretty quick, and it's good food at an affordable price!
prolly best post-etoh food. when you try it as a real meal on a sober day, doesn't taste as good. there's a weird synergy with after drinking that makes it awesome.
My first time having it and I loved every bit of it!! I kept hearing so many great things about the halal guys so I decided to finally check it out, as soon as they opened this morning. I had the chicken and rice w/pita bread and tzatkiki sauce!! Omg soooo good!! Very friendly service as well. They deserve all 5 stars! I'll be back next time to try a gyro!
I mean what I can I say that hasn't already been said. Every time I visit from DC this is a must stop for me. Food just gets better and better, and for $6 YOU CAN'T find anything better. I am a big boy and I can never finish a combo plate. This time around I made sure to bring some home, bought 6 yes I said it 6 combo plates. Can't wait to share this greatness with my friends back in DC. Wish they would open up shop in my city. Love love love these guys, DON'T EVER CHANGE
A must try in Manhattan! Just walking by this cart makes me hungry, even after eating a full meal! It always smells so unbelievably good and makes for the perfect late night snack/second dinner. My boyfriend and I shared a lamb/chicken combo after watching Avenue Q just a few blocks away. There was shockingly no line at 10pm (usually there is always a line!) and we got served super quickly and came home and scarfed it down (ok lezzbehonest - he ate 3/4 of it because my eyes are always hungrier than my stomach and I couldn't eat my half anymore). It was AMAZING and I loved the white and red sauce together. The red sauce is SUPER spicy so try not to get too much. I think if I were to go again, I would try the falafel. Perfect, perfect, perfect!
there is SO MUCH HYPE about this place, it's kinda crazy. i've had it a few times over the last few years and although its good - don't get me wrong - its certainly not my favorite place in the city. anyway, now that thats aside, lets get to the food - ive had the chicken & rice as well as the chicken/lamb & rice - both are great, don't think you can go wrong with either. they essentially mince up the meat so it all kinda ends up tasting similar anyway. comes with sauces - ones like a ranch and the other is SUPER SPICY! this is really what i love about the dish! i def ask for extra, because you get a LOT of food and one packet of each wont suffice. its also REALLY cheap - $6 and it lasted me 2 meals, though doesnt taste as great the next day when its cold.
Don't believe the hype or you are in for a bad time. This is not the best halal cart in NYC. HOWEVER, It is definitely the most filling. The portion you receive at this stand is almost 2.5x MORE than the traditional halal stand. They let you put as much white/bbq/hotsauce as you like which is definitely a huge plus if you are a fan of those sauces. However the meat is very dry as it is diced to nonexistence which is why the infinite supply of sauce is what makes it have any kind of moisture. Decent Halal stand, there are definitely better ones out there but for portion size it cannot be beat. Tip: Ask for peppers and onions for some more flavor.
NOT worth the hype!
Don't be fooled; southwest side of the corner is where the real deal is. ? Best halal cart in the city; maybe world.
C: Did you know this has, like, 3000 calories. Me: Yeah (drooling). Wait, what!? C: Yeah, it has 3000 calories Me: Get outta here! No way that's true. D: No, really. I read somewhere too that this has 2000 calories in it Me: How is that even...?!? I'm not buying it. And is it 2000 or 3000? D: Think about it. It's so rich, they must put a lot of oil and butter in the rice. And the white sauce is crazy. Me: The white sauce is high in calories? But I always get extra white sauce. C: Well maybe from now on you shouldn't. I can't believe you're almost done, I can't even finish half of this. Me: Well when something's this delicious, I don't think about it, I just eat. And I'm not about to give up on the extra extra white sauce now. So much for getting in shape before summer. (The aforementioned rumored calorie counts are all inaccurate... I think.)
Another accomplishment on the Yelp NYC bucket list down! ?I generally avoid food trucks unless I'm drunk. ?Then, I don't know if I'm sick from eating bad meat or drinking too much. ?But I made an exception for this truck, and I'm happy I did. The line on a Monday at 3:00 in the afternoon took a half and hour- a bit excessive considering there were 13 people in front of me. Essentially, it's $6 for a tin full of lettuce, meat, and your sauces. ?The lettuce is nice and crisp since they output so many of these meals. ?The lamb was seasoned nicely, and they give you a ton of meat considering the price. ?You then have a white yogurty something sauce and a crazy spicy red sauce. ?I would recommend splitting the plate with a friend. ?It's very heavy, and you'll feel like you ate rocks if you eat the whole thing. Don't hate me, but I would not ask for extra white sauce if you consider yourself an even slightly healthy eater. ?It's thick, and you can physically feel it clogging your arteries as you eat it. ?And if you don't get the red sauce, it overwhelms the rest of the dish. ?So if you're a ranch with a side of salad person, get extra. ?If you like a little dressing with your salad, a little goes a long way. Overall, it's a steal money wise and the food is good. ?Minus one star because they gave the guy in front of me extra pita for free and then did not give me my pita.
I used to buy from Halal Guys almost 3 times per week. For three reasons. Great service - great meat - amazing price. But not anymore. Their gyro smells disgusting ?(probably they changed something) so i stopped buying from them. I have so many choices in the city and i don't want to waste my time over there.
The first time I had chicken and rice was back in 2006. ?I was visiting a friend in NYC and he brought me here late one night. ?With absolutely no expectations, that first bite was life-changing. ?As everyone else has said there's something about the white sauce that just keeps you wanting more. I used to make trips to NYC purposefully to get chicken and rice. ?I've had it at least 15 times over the past 7 years and I've never even lived in NYC. ?The lines used to be a lot longer, but the food still tastes just as good today. ?If you're in NYC you have to try it at least once. DO IT! ?Just make sure its the one right on the corner of 53rd an 6th.
Amazing food for a steal. The lines are long but worth the fast paced wait. They give you a generous portion of flavorful food, the sauce perfects it and gives it the final kick that makes it a wonderful meal, snack, or dessert. If you happen to get a bunch, (we got 10) they even give you a reusable carrying bag. Always worth a stop when in New York.
I love going to the 53rd and 6th Halal Guys. It's hilarious to me that no matter what time of day you will find a line around the block to get street meet, but trust me it's worth it. The line moves fast, and it's the cheapest meal in the city. I'm someone with her fair share of stomach problems, so I've never been particularly drawn to eating from street carts. I have to say I've never had a problem eating from Halal Guys. It's $6 for some great food, and it's a fun "NYC-type" thing to do. The only thing that stopped me from giving it 5 stars was the seating situation. There really isn't anywhere to sit and it's not the easiest food to eat standing, but I've always made it work. It's worth the stand.
good price, ?large portions, yummy food, friendly guys... ?what's there not to like??!
Hands down the best deal in New York City.
Its good but i like others.. I find thier white suace top notch!
Great flavor for the price. Def recommend this place...
best best bestttttttt. hands downnnnn. - kati roll here + extra white sauce yao yao yaooowwww!!!!a
Halal Cart and Shake Shack are food that make me miss New York. I had the gyro and chicken combo. It's so delicious I miss it when I was flying back to California... wish they have some here! My friend had the chicken and rice. The thing about it is that it has tomatoes!!!! Juicy tomatoes. Yumm! Lots of meats and rice, large fullfilling portion, cash only, long line but it's fast! Red sauce is very spicy, best grab for a very hungry stomach before going to MoMA or Central Park!
I love halal and finding good halal is important to me. In one weekend I tried Halal Guys in Astoria, the halal cart on 71st and Continental in Forest Hills, and Sammy's on 74th and Broadway. Honestly, any of these halal carts will make you want to say a quick prayer of thanks to the halal gods. However, Halal Guys takes the cake for perfect rice, chicken, hot sauce, and white sauce. The smell emanating from my styrofoam container was so enticing I couldn't wait till home to try the chicken over rice. I ate the entire thing in my car parked right by the cart. No shame.
lamb over rice with hot sauce and yogurt, yum yum yum, esp for late night
Best food cart food I have ever had. So simple yet so delicious. The biggest problem with this place is the line. It's always long! But worth the wait. Maybe the cheapest best meal you can get in NYC. get the white sauce....yeah it is that good!
It's soooo greasy! ?No matter how hung over, I can't do this again. ?Perhaps my expectations were too high given all the hype, but I found the food disappointing.
Taken multiple trips into NYC just to have a combination platter from this cart. Cover your platter in white sauce and it will have been the best $6 you ever spent.
The best halal I've had in the city, but as usual, it's really greasy so go there very hungry! Watch out for the hot sauce
Walked here from 40th/5th one night to get some late night comfort food since I've heard so much about this highly rated cart. The line was snaking long when I first arrived. The owner came by and started giving out free yellow reusable bag printed with their name and logo on it. I spent the time in line chatting on the phone, so I guess it wasnt too long a wait. I ordered chicken over rice with extra white sauce since it came highly recommended. Wow, what can I say. If you're ever in NYC, definitely try this out!! I like the fragrance of the piping hot chicken and it worked so well with the white and hot sauce. The portion was a bit too big for me so I kept half of it and continued eating it for the next day. It was still good even after being left in the open for a day. But nothing beats having it piping hot and fresh next to the cart!
This is one of the most popular places on the planet. I used to live a few blocks away and, when I walked by, the line could sometimes be a block long. You get a lot of freshly cooked, tasty food for a low price. It is definitely a step above the other food carts. They now have at least four carts, so if the line at the original one is too long, you can go to the one across the street or down the block. Just make sure it says, Halal Guys. One tip, the hot sauce is too much even if you like spicy food. Best if you take just a few drops of the hot sauce and mix it with the container of the white sauce, then pour the mixture on your food. That will give you enough fire without burning a hole in your stomach! Enjoy!
OH MY WOWWWW! Seriously? Can anything really taste this good? I live on the west coast and get major cravings for chicken and rice. All the other places in ny i thought was overrated but halal really lived up to the hype. Their white sauce and red sauce is amazing and compliments the chicken, rice, and salad. Its only $5 too... couldnt belive something so good could be so cheap. Next time i go out to the east, gonna try to have this for every meal.
I heard about this famous cart with chicken and rice that was a must when visiting New York. I also saw Wong Fu Weekends go there and the long line that they waited in to get the food. Just a heads up, there are multiple halal carts that are the original within blocks of each other so you dont have to go to this specific crosstreet for the Halal Cart. I passed by one but it wasnt the one that was the Yelpiest but just go to any of the Halal Carts with that big ol yellow sign. Most likely this location will have a long line so you can walk a block away for a shorter line and the same food. Hours are ridiculous....open until 4am? Wish they had these kind of places in SF or something. The chicken and rice bowl is huge! My sister and I split it and were completely satisfied. It comes with loads and loads of chicken on top of rice, pita bread, and the white sauce that is an absolute must or it is a tad dry. We poured that sauce all over and mixed the two together to create the goods. The chicken reminds me of the one you would find in Vietnamese sandwiches since they are cut up pretty finely. I admit the place is good but I was really expecting some crazy deliciousness since so many people have reviewed it. Maybe it is so Yelpy because drunk people go here after a night out. I admit it is good but compared to the other places I ate in NY, this would be 3.5 stars. It is good to try to experience it but I wouldnt waste one of my precious meals on this again if visiting NY again. **TIPS** 1) There are multiple locations seriously within blocks of each other. Go to any. This one will have a huge line but luckily I beat the crowd. 2) Cash only and seats are wherever you can find a spot on ledges or floors. 3) Hours until 4am. This locations opens later but the other ones are 10am-4am. Ridic. 4) Enjoy!
In the beginning I got confused there are more than three carts in each corner. I liked their chicken and beaf sandwich mixed...
Chicken and rice. Chicken and rice. Chicken and rice. When in NYC, you MUST try the chicken and rice at a Halal cart.. but not just any Halal cart, because not all are made the same. In fact, there are signs on some that clearly state that they are different! If you want the BEST one, come here. No, not the one that has the painstakingly long line. Look across the street and you will find the SAME food, made by the SAME company, with the SAME yellow bag. Tourists that don't have the insider scoop stand in line that sometimes wraps around the block when they can simply come to this one. Trust me, it's the same exact food. Locals laugh as they get their food in mere seconds, while the guys across the street don't know any better. Food is good sober, and even better when tipsy. PS - the hot sauce is REALLY hot. Look, I warned you!
Long lines Pollution Smokers Car horns and alarms Fast Simple Consistent Friendly Cheap STREET FOOD Ahh, the best. Yes, it's not fantastic food and yes, you only truly enjoy it after a night of drinking but isn't that the beauty of it? That a tiny street cart can have an hour long line (I waited in line for 20 minutes today at 1:30 pm; their posted hours are clearly irrelevant. These guys are here to serve and earn) and nobody even bats an eye or gets antsy. They know what they came for and they know that they will get it. Simple and few options are the best way to go for a food cart and these guys do it exceptionally well with charm, service and low prices. Like anything else, know what you are looking for. You cannot expect 5-star food from a cart alongside W53rd St. However, for the price, quantity, service, more than decent quality and reliability, it is most certainly 5 stars for me.
I can't believe I haven't written a review about these guys. Whether you actually call them "The Halal Guys" or 50th 3rd and 6th, platters, chicken and rice - everybody and I mean evvverrrybody knows about this place. There has been many a nights I've found myself stumble in a cab and drunkenly blurt out "53rd and 6th please!" and have yet to regret it. A few tips from my experiences.....if it's cold, there is a bank right around the corner. No one will judge you if you squat in there to enjoy your chicken and rice - entry fee = a swipe of any cc to open the doors. If you are inebriated, I suggest not sitting on the ledge of the water fountain...especially at night because you may just forget and lean back. A wet meal, even when it is C+R is not enjoyable. Do not come to the south west corner C+R during the day, its not the real one. During the day go to the SE corner one. During night...it is legit every corner. I would not recommend waiting in the obnoxiously long original line. Unless you've got patience of steel.
Need I write a review for this place?? This legendary spot is finally getting their own restaurant! As good as this is tho.... I would never eat it drunk (Regret every morning after eating when drunk) Be nice to these guys, they love serving drunk ppl every night but no need to be rude.. u will get what u want if u just ask Remember to come only at night time for the authentic! You can tell the difference by the bag color. Yellow bag = Authentic!
I have been a fan of Halal guys on 53rd and 6 as long as I can remember. everyone knows HALAL guys. I even once bought 15 of these badboys and took them to my frat bros in albany. people behind me werent very pleased with my order. anyways, i feel they arent as good as the first couple of years that they opened up. chicken is kinda dry and tasteless. (this is where the white sauce comes into play) I hope they up their game. but when your drunk and hungry, this is the place to be. PERIOD!!! and just letting yall know that the cart on the opposite side of the street tastes the same as the main cart, so stop crowding around one cart =)
There's always a line for these guys! The hours say 7 pm to 4 pm but I'm here at 1:30 and they are open for lunch!! Yesssssss!! Just one thing: ?Their slices of meat are a bit too thin. But, I do appreciate their prices have stayed consistent for the past 8 years that I've known them. ?$6 for a plate that can feed 2 people! ?Sounds good to me!
What's a trip to New York without getting a delicious plate from the halal cart. ?But wait, there's one on every corner! ?Are they all the same? ?Is there one that's better than the rest? ?Thankfully my friend did her research beforehand, and we found the good stuff on the corner of 53rd and 6th. ?The Halal Guys. ?Their sign even says it, "We are Different". ?Although, I wouldn't really have anything to compare it to, I can say this was definitely a good food experience. I got the mixed plate, chicken and gyro. ?Slather that white sauce on top and just a dab of hot sauce. ?Thank goodness my friends and cousins warned me about that sauce beforehand, or I probably would have dumped the whole thing on there. ?Instead, I dribbled just the tiniest bit on the plate, and my mouth was on fire as I consumed my whole plate. ?Ok, maybe I didn't finish the whole thing. ?It's a LARGE plate of food. ?But I ate a decent amount, and enjoyed every spoonful. ?A lot of flavor in every bite. ?The chicken was good, but I especially like the lamb. ?The lamb had an incredible flavor on it which made it a perfect pairing with the rice and even the lettuce. Service was pretty fast as well. ?There was a long line, but it seemed to go pretty fast, and my hungry tummy didn't have to wait long. ?It was fed and satisfied until I just could not eat anymore. Find the guys with the "We are different" sign. ?That's the one I tried. ?And I was not disappointed.
SOOOO GOOD. And a lot of food for the price. I made the mistake of asking for just hot sauce and no white sauce, and about 5 minutes into eating, the roof of my mouth felt like it was on fire (note: ALWAYS get the white sauce if you're getting the hot sauce!). They have extra sauces in take-away cups so if you want to put it in yourself, you can do that too.
Awesome...stumbled upon by accident waiting for radio city show. Family of 7 split 2 gyro rice platters and a gyro sandwich. Well worth the price and flavor. The hot sauce rocks..use sparingly it is Hot!
Some of the best halal food I've ever had!! I heard the chicken was off the chain so I order that in a plate portion. It was DELICIOUS. The cart is near my work so I will definitely be coming back to try the lamb. Great late night joint.
Cool place to eat at. Only 6 bucks and you get a giant platter of food. Must check it out once you have a chance. I tried their food and it was mind blowing. The gyro was moist and tasty, their rice was just right, combine all that with a touch of hot sauce and freshness of lettuce and tomato, then you have a perfect meal under 7 bucks. Couldn't be any happier. Not the best customer services but hey it's street food.
Didn't work for me. I don't know, but maybe the mood dictates the flavor. I didn't eat all day, so I was supposedly hungry, yet this didn't go down well. Rice-not much of it, texture was OK. Chicken-relatively large pieces, not much flavor. Lamb-dry, small pieces, I've had better. Sauce-it's OK, I forgot to get hot sauce, so maybe that would have helped. Veggies-lacking, not that fresh. Mainly, the meat to rice ratio was too high, meat was dry and mediocre, meat consistency and size were not to par , vegetables were weak, Take note, this is a highly personalized review. It wasn't that great for me, could be better for you.
Haha I mean what do you want me to say? Itinerary: go to a pub/bar/club/dive/party in NYC. Have lots of booze. Leave Party. Walk/cab/subway/skate/bike/limp/crawl to 53rd and 6th if you want halal food. It's awesome, the sauce is do it yourself (crucial in the halal game) and they give you way too much food. If you were drunk what would you do?
Everyone (and I mean everyone) told us to get the chicken over rice here when we visited NYC. We were also sternly warned that there were imitators in the same area (really, competitors with deceptively similar t-shirts and get-ups), and that we had to get the real deal. Cue paralyzing anxiety, especially once we got there and saw at least 6 different carts. We finally realized that we could go to any cart owned by the 53rd & 6th Halal team (slogan: "We Are Different") and taste what everyone else had been talking about. And yes... it was glorious. You get a heaping portion of orange rice, meat, some greens and flatbread, and sauces. Simple, delicious, cheap. Even thought it was our cheapest meal in NYC, it was one of our favorites.
The portion was huge and only $6. I got the chicken over rice with white sauce. It was a bit salty for my tastes, but otherwise the best halal that I've had in New York City. While there was a line of 20 people ahead of me at 12:30pm on a Friday, it moved pretty quickly.
I was shocked to see the line so short at 4AM yesterday morning. Guess it was my lucky day! Only update I have to report is that they now have little containers of red and white sauce. Mind BLOWN. Wish they created a milder red sauce.
I had the misfortune of eating from here because of all the great reviews. I'm not sure what the hype is all about but the food tasted less than mediocre and the worse part was the EXTREME heartburn I experienced right after eating from here. If eating here was my only option (because the world is ending or something)-- ?I would rather starve to death.
The first thing I ever ate as an 18 year old coming to the City to visit a friend was the Chicken N Rice at the 53rd and 6th Halal cart. I've had it quite a few more time since then, and I think it's slowly lost it's sheen. I think my first time would have been 5 stars, and subsequently I would have probably given it 4. As it stands, it's a 3.5 in my book, though it might change. So their are lines pretty much all the time, and I would say they reach peak hours late night(around midnight). I've had pretty much everything here and I can see the appeal. A cheap($6 BUCKS!) hearty and filing meal that you could eat any time of the day. The sauces are on point(both the spicy and the white sauce) and the pita is pretty good. ?Anyhow, I think what's worn on my at this joint is the meat. After you've had it a few times, you'll realize it wasn't as good as the first few times. I don't know, but somehow the "magic" is gone. I probably wouldn't make a specific trek up here to grab it(I know a lot of people drive here to just get this one thing) and I will commend it both for its service(I've actually talked to the owner...he still works every night, guy is a boss) and for its consistency. I guess, I just don't find it tremendously better than some of the dozens of other Halal Carts spread out across the city.(You can really find gems).
YES, YES, and YES. Of all the halal carts in NYC, there had to be a reason this is the most known. $6 for a giant platter of chicken and lamb on top of rice, lettuce, and pita bread. It was delicious on its own, but that white sauce brought it over the top. Nice and creamy, it worked perfectly with the chicken and lamb. The red sauce was a little intense, so be warned. This place was so worth it, I couldn't even complain that I was eating while standing in a pay phone booth in 35 degree weather. I could go for another platter (or 2) right now!
My friend literally told me, "Of all the places I'm showing you in New York, this is BY FAR the most important place that you are going to see in this city." ?Ok, so he may have been hammered as hell when he said that. ?Doesn't make it any less true though, because there is truth to be spoken when a man is drunk. ?And NOW I KNOW. So what exactly is it then? ?Oh, maybe it's the fact that you're getting the bombest of bomb chicken and lamb served on rice for SIX FREAKING DOLLARS. ?I think enough has been said about the white sauce...actually, no, because it has to be said one more time: JUST POUND THAT WHITE SAUCE. ?OVER AND OVER. ?AND THEN DO IT AGAIN BECAUSE YOU GRABBED FIVE OF THEM EVEN IF THEY GOT PISSED AT YOU FOR TAKING ALL THAT WHITE SAUCE. All that added up, this is definitely one of those places that you don't want to bother with the caloric intake count. ?Some things are better left unknown. ?Hell I even got lucky with the line...aka there was no line. ?Like, whoa, really? ?I don't have to freeze my ass off in 20 degree weather while getting this? ?SWEET! This was so good that I literally carried it from my boy's place in the Bronx, all the way to my other friend's place in Manhattan, through airport security at JFK, and on to the plane with the intention of sticking it in my fridge back home. ?Then I got hungry on the plane while while watching TV (because taking anything but JetBlue going from NY to Cali is a horrible idea). ?And I remembered, this halal thing is probably better than anything this plane can serve. ?Thanks Halal Guys! My one regret: not taking five of these things back with me.
I enjoyed this food stand twice while in New York, but had I known that this wasn't available outside of New York...I would've eaten this for every meal!! ?I've searched for anything similar in Vegas or California but can only find other people looking for the same!!! Both times I ordered the gyros with the white and spicy red sauce and it was delicious!! ?Somebody please open one of these stands in Vegas!!!
Stumbled on this randomly when we saw a line for the food and decided to check it out. It was amazingly delicious! We had the mixed combo rice for $6 and it came with the much raved about white sauce and hot sauce. The serving was pretty huge so I shared it with my friend and it was just about right for 2 girls. The chicken tasted tender and not dry. The lamb was great! I usually avoid all lamb items but I scoffed this all down because it tasted so fantastic and didn't taste like lamb. Unfortunately, I didn't like the white sauce much as I felt it made the entire dish too rich and the dish tasted great on its own. It is also true the hot sauce is SPICY! Watch out! It also came with some vegetables on the side but I think they could have given more to make the dish healthier. Lastly, they even handed out recyclable bags. Terrific! I really enjoyed my meal and HIGHLY recommend this for a cheap and great meal. Do note there is a pretty long line but it moves quickly and when I arrived at 715pm, it was only a 10 min wait.
Best Halal EVER. ?Worth every bit the wait. ?I've been during weekday lunch rush hour (and my ass doesn't even work anywhere near midtown!), weekend and the late night, and you know what? THE HALAL GUYS NEVER LET ME DOWN. I do wonder if I should warn the newbies that they really don't want that hot sauce unless they are ready for a world of pain.....
This is the best street meat in the city. There have been numerous occasions where I have traveled 40 minutes just because I had a craving for it. ? However be gentle with the hot sauce unless you have a stomach like a tank.
I got the chicken and lamb combo with all the fixings, but couldn't finish it halfway through because all the grease was making my stomach shut down. I ended up eating a granola bar 45 minutes later on the train home because apparently what I thought was feeling full earlier was just a feeling of unease from the grease. Friends have told me that it's much better when you're drunk.
When I was in College, waiting in line on a cold winter night for a platter of Chicken and Rice seemed like a great idea and a delicious one at that. ?However, as time went on I realized that the quality of the food was very uneven and that waiting 45 minutes for some merely ok chicken and gruff service along with it.
Pretty good. The few times I went, there was a line, but well worth the wait.
Simply delicious
Simply Perfect. Above Perfect. If there was something higher than perfect. First the lamb is the best I've ever had. Spiced well and just the right amount of fat. The chicken is also very good but I think its best paired with the slightly more spiced and fatty lamb. The rice is beautiful. The bread that soaks in the juices is so great you will be sad when its gone. The spicy sauce is crazy hot yet still mouth wateringly good. Be careful and start with a little. And the white sauce is the sauce to rule all others. You cant put enough white sauce. Heck take some home and put it on anything and it will taste great.
Not worth the hype. ?Take this review with a grain of salt because I haven't gone since 2006- their food is good but not worth traveling into the city for. ?I went a few times because when we were in college, my best friend was obsessed with these guys. ?I always thought the excessive wait (never less than 45 minutes) wasn't worth it. ?She's Guyanese/Muslim so maybe she has a different level of appreciation though ;) ?I don't really eat meat, when I do it's from my own kitchen, so I always ordered the rice w/ pita, no red sauce and extra white sauce. ?It was good, I enjoyed, but again, nothing I can't get up the block from my apartment...or around the corner from my parents' house...or at any of the other many halal carts all over Queens.
Ahhhhhhhh heaven!!! They need a Twitter profile or something though. I go here all the time with family but a few weeks back went with a colleague and got caught in the trap of waiting in line for an impostor! Regardless, the lamb is my favorite and the rice is amazing. I like to vigorously mix together the lamb and rice with a good amount of white sauce and a drop of the spicy sauce. Definitely is two meals and if you reheat it on the skillet it's heaven all over again!
Best in the city..
A must try for anyone visiting the city! A true late night staple for all! Must try the mix plate with lamb and chicken. Lamb is super flavorful and not gamey at all. Must have white sauce, but beware of the red sauce! It is super spicy but still Fil of flavor. Can't beat the ?$6 price either!
The Yelp reviewers, they speak the truth! Their carts have a very long line whenever I pass by in the evening but around 4pm there's nearly no line at all. The other carts trying to imitate them are comical.
I ate at this cart once while I lived in NY. ?There's always such a long line for this cart (even at 3am!!!!!!?!?!?!?!), that I always walked pass by it. ? But then that one time I ate here with my friends.... (after having a couple of martinis, etc etc), it really really tasted awesome. ?The sauce is spicy, and my eyes started watering from the heat from the sauce, but the meat is cooked so well and there is no lamb gamey smell to it. ?And it's also really cheap! ?(Now that I work in DC, and roam around the dupont circle area to find places to eat, I get appalled looking at food cart prices here. ?I mean, $20 for special lasagna....? $10 pho...? sigh) Always look for the right cart! ?I think these guys wear the shirt saying that they are the original halal cart guys. ?There are so many halal carts, and I am sure tourists would get confused, so always check before you go!
Awesome. It's a bit tricky because there is literally a halal cart on every corner of this intersection- look for the one with the line. If my memory serves me correctly it is on the Northwest corner- I'm new in town so please don't hold me to that. ? I got a mix of chicken and gyro and it was delicious, it doesn't get better than this for $6 and enough food for 2 meals. Get extra white sauce, and proceed with caution with the hot sauce, it is seriously hot (and I love spicy food).
WATCH OUT FOR CHICKEN BONES! needed to post this on yelp. after almost breaking a tooth (there were two bones and then I stopped eating the chicken) I would not recommend getting the chicken. Stick with the gyro meat instead. Just not worth the risk. White sauce is tasty.
My blunt and honest opinion? ?This halal cart is okay. ?I've been here more than 10 times and I just don't personally think the food is memorable enough for me to go to it. ?Usually I go because I'm in the area and it's a fast meal. ?I believe in trying something at least once so I would recommend that! :)
This place is an absolute hidden gem! Well...actually not really, because of their HUGE ASS line down the street! Ha! There are tons and tons of halal carts in the city but this one is claimed to be the best. And boy, it was. It is near the theater district, so as we were heading over to a Broadway show, we made a pit stop here. It's cheap, fast, and the food comes right off their grill, still scorching hot when you get it in your hands. Their sauces are also DELISH! I remembered I put way too much spice on mine, but I still scarfed it down. The Halal Guys were also passing out nice eco-friendly tote bags with their logo on it to everyone afterwards. I am so sad they don't have any of this on the west coast!
There is usually a line here. Do not know why. The hype is bigger than it actually is. ?I've had better food. The guys who are running it are nice. ?But overall, the food is not worth the line. ?Recommendation: Go elsewhere.
Decent but I greatly prefer my man Esam on 53rd & Lex. ?going to the 6th avenue carts guarantees the following:: metal trays, long lines, decent food, big crowd for entertainments. ?I'm a paramedic so I get around and although many people love the halal guys over here i've always been a bit underwhelmed. ?No real complaints, just had better. ?Nice people and they're quite friendly. ?I feel like their shallow metal trays mean less food for your $5 than the styrofoam most have and they haven't got anything I think is worth the wait, but i don't shy away either.
good but a little greasy, but you will get stuffed on $6
The best street meat you'll ever eat. Looks like they have two carts now on each corner of 53rd and 6th St. Just get the chicken and gyro combo over rice and drown it in white sauce. Be careful with their hot sauce. They don't play. A tiny drop could be enough.
Best late late night food you can get. Been here a couple times now. The hot sauce is wicked hot but delicious with a healthy dose of white sauce. The cart changes locations from day to night so be sure to be on the southwest corner late at night. Late night: ?-Chicken and Rice (Great)
One of the best $5-$6 meals you can get. You will definitely be full and satisfy. What I like: Unlike other Halal meat carts, this cart serves very fresh meat- probably due to the high traffic it gets. Further, it is one of the least greasiest ones. The chicken is nowhere as greasy as the chicken you will find at other Halal carts. Tip: They have multiple carts. It is not just the one 53rd and 6th anymore. Go to the one at 53rd ad 6th and ask them where the other 2-3 locations are located. They are in the proximity. The quality is the same. All the meat comes from the same location. Further, it is also opened for lunch now- just not at the 53rd and 6th SW location. I believe there is one on the 53rd and 6th SE corner.
If you're a little tipsy and you get that craving for greasy food at 2am, this is the place to go!! When I was in college and we were just sick of school, we would take a nice walk from Columbus Circle to 53rd Street at 1am, and just eat their delicious food! They are well-known for a reason, I definitely recommend this little cart.
There's always a container of their food in my fridge on a weekly basis because my brother is a huge fan of this cart (he goes all the way to Manhattan to buy it, but brings it back unfinished...hmm I wonder why). Unfortunately I'm not a fan....at all. I'm so used to the halal carts in my neck of the woods here in Queens that use pale brown colored long grain rice seasoned with cumin, chunks of chicken (hint: NOT SHREDDED), and long chunky strips of lamb (hint: NOT GROUND UP). Here at 53rd and 6th, they use a bright neon orange-yellow colored rice. The chicken is dry and under seasoned, the lamb is ground up like canned dog food, dry, and under seasoned... The rice is dry. The hot sauce tastes like barbecue sauce mixed up with a pile of habaneros. Sorry guys, but the only redeeming factor is the white sauce (hint: ranch dressing) and that's not saying much. I would even dare to say that this is the worst halal cart that I've experienced so far in NYC
In all honesty, I have no clue what is in the white sauce but it is delicious when paired with chicken or lamb (lamb is my personal fav but the chicken is also very good) gyro and rice, all piled on a pita slice. ?You have to layer the rice, then meat, and then sauce on the pita. ?Just try it. ?You will soon develop an addiction. ?The sauce is simultaneously savory and creamy and just fantastic. ?There is always a line but it moves quickly and the food is definitely worth any wait. ?Luckily for me, this is an extremely affordable addiction at $6 for a huge platter that has enough food to last for 2 hearty meals. ?Love it!
This is my favorite halal stand by far. With that said, there's so much hype about this place that there's almost no point writing any reviews at all. I'll just get my personal opinion out there anyways. It's open almost all day (yes, morning too! It's a mistake that many people make - but don't think it only opens at night and don't go for the imposters.) The food itself has declined over the years, but regardless it is the best halal place in NYC. The lamb is shredded to bits, which makes it taste so much better. The chicken is great, the sauces is delicious. Unlimited white, BBQ, and hot sauce. One order is large enough to fill you for sure. Great halal overall.
I am a sucker for any place with a long line. There is a reason why there are all these people lining up right? ?99% of the time I wind up discovering something amazing. ?I consider the time I waited 6 hours to meet Justin Bieber among that 99% in case you were curious. This food cart is the only place in NYC that my girlfriend has on her to return list every time. It's for a good reason: the crack/crystal meth/some drug they put in the white sauce is the truth. You'll understand when you start grabbing the squirt bottle and try to drink it. There is always a lineup, but it moves quickly. Don't expect good service, but that's not why you came here. The Hilton Hotel next door has plenty of seating for those trying to keep it classy.
Why such long reviews about this place people? Just go. Believe the hype. Best chicken and rice ever (I get mixed). Get the white sauce and make sure you're at the "right" halal cart - people are getting sneaky with similar looking carts nearby. Also, note that they do not sell drinks.
You see a lot of these carts around NYC. I was skeptical about the food at first, but it's actually that good! I ordered a chicken plate with pita bread and the white sauce they added on to it enhanced the entire meal. I just wished there were more options when we went, but it was still far from a disappointment.
The Halal guys know how to run a halal cart, and they know how to run it the right way. As an observant consumer, let me just first say that I have never seen a halal cart run so efficiently and so strategically, and that's probably the partial reason for their success. They have four guys manning one food station, one guy manning a drinks station right next to it, and one guy cooking up the ingredients at a station few feet away. They are located in possibly one of the best locations in the city -- midtown, by a Hilton hotel, by a bunch of local and corporate businesses, by a Starbucks, by a seating area, etc. They open at 7PM on the dot until 4AM, perfect for after-work or after a drunken debauchery. The Halal Guys have the food cart business down to a science. I am not much a street meat gal. Honestly, I don't trust more than half of them, so I rarely, if ever, venture out for street meat. For once, I was actually excited to try a halal cart mainly after hearing about it from a relative (who lives in Jersey and travels all the way over to the city to have their food). And, yes, I experienced this food entirely sober, so yes, this food does not need to be consumed only when intoxicated. Moment I got to the cart at 7:30PM, there was a line, but a fast moving one. There's not much to be said here other than the food is budget-friendly, comes in huge portions, and is tasty. For $6, you can get the choice of chicken, gyro, mixed chicken/gyro, or falafel over rice. They also have $4 chicken, gyro, or falafel sandwiches. I tried the chicken/gyro mix over rice just to get a taste of both worlds. All ingredients come in an aluminum platter -- meat, some yellow rice, few slices of warm pita, and chopped lettuce. The portions are large and a great value. The pita is super soft and served warm. The meat is rather tender, although I recommend putting the white and/or hot sauce on because it can get rather dry without it. You can ask for white sauce and/or hot sauce to go. I must warn you though, the hot sauce is HOT. Don't get carried away (like I did), and start dumping all the hot sauce on; use sparingly, because you're going to be in pain. Otherwise, few drops of hot sauce/a bunch of white sauce combined, it's awesome. I never possibly thought I'd run into a halal cart, review it, and say it's 5 stars. But, for what it is, I think it's worthy of commendation. I also commend them on their efficiency and dedication to running a cart through all hours of the night to serve a bunch of hungry or drunk/hungry people, literally non-stop. Again, their food is safe, it's fine, and it can be enjoyed at 7PM or at 2AM. This is some legit street meat.
HOLY TOLEDO was this good. If there is anything I miss from NYC it is this place. Friends and I came here after partying at 4am. There was almost no line so we got our food quick. The 5 of us shared 3 plates but I think I could have scarfed one down on my own easily. We got two combo plates and one chicken plate. LOADED up on the white sauce and then feasted. This is so freaking simple, chopped up chicken/lamb, rice and some kind of salad (or just lettuce). Seriously every bite was amazing and it was just &6-$7 a plate with a ton of food. This is a place I will come back to EVERYTIME I come to NYC. I don't care if I have to miss a flight or kill someone.
i went a while ago, but when i did it was good! good street gyro.
Can't say anything that has not already been said.
We waited in line for about 15 minutes and ordered a mixed platter for about $6. It was a huge serving, good for two people. Cheap and tasty stomach filler.
One of the staples in NYC that I will miss. Get the chicken and rice, no pita or lettuce for your ?money's worth. Also get the sauces on the side. My stomach usually can't handle the spices they add, but I still eat it anyway because it's worth it. Make sure you go to the cart with the yellow bags because there are a lot of impersonators in the area.
I'm done with this place, the meat is dry, the hot sauce is uneatable, the yogurt sauce is definitely made mostly of mayonnaise. I want to live a few extra days. pass.
Drunk or Sober, this place is popular for a reason. Get the Chicken and Rice and add the white sauce, bbq sauce and carefully add the hot sauce because a little can go a long way. Come here anytime during the weekends past 2AM and be prepared to wait in line with tons of intoxicated party goers.
In my opinion it is the best cheap drunk food in New York City, but also the most known drunk food in New York City. For that reason, I usually only go here as a nightcap when visitors from outside NYC are in town. Don't count on this to be the main event for an evening, because you will be disappointed. Warning! As a spicy food enthusiast, a little bit of hot sauce is more than enough.
A+++++++ This place is like crack... for like two weeks after I left New York I was fiending for this stuff, but nothing was able to replace it... ah... how I miss this stuff...
My husband and I go here a lot! I think if you are coming to NYC and don't try Halal guys you definitely will be missing out. It'd definitely a go-to!
I was told that if I'm visiting NY, I HAVE to try the Halal Guys. ? I was glad I heeded the advice. I was also told that the thing to get is their chicken and rice... ...but how can you pass up good gyro??? So I got the mixed chicken and gyro over rice. ? So yummy... ? The rice is just chewy enough and flavorful. ?The meat (both the chicken and the gyro) were moist, flavorful, and delicious. I can see why people swear by it. ?So good~
The best chicken or lamb over rice with the white cream sauce in Manhattan.
I crave their chicken and rice dish all the time. Any time I get a chance to be in NY, I will put this at the top of my priority list. Nothing better than grabbing that round sliver food container of piping hot chicken over seasoned rice with that amazing white sauce and dab of spicy red. One of my favorite memorable dishes that will never lose sight. I'm getting hungry just thinking about it. Can't get this on the east coast, I don't know if its the street atmosphere or what but its definitely the spot for amazing no-fuss quick cart food. ? Beware of their really hot sauce, its no joke. All sauces are on the side of the cart. And make sure to hit up the right cart, there are tons of imitations on neighboring corners and throughout the city.
It deeply saddens me to give the 53rd and 6th Halal Cart one star because I had really high expectations and an uncontrollable childlike excitement while waiting in the 15 minute line. This is quintessential NYC street-food and after years of anticipation and food-blog stumble upon's, I was super excited to try the Halal Guys combination meat and rice bowl on my most recent trip. Had the worst possible experience!! Problems: 1. The brown meat chicken is completely unseasoned and old-looking/boiled-y; have tried better chicken from other carts. 2. Not enough lettuce or pita! 3. The white sauce is RANCH dressing - I have no idea what all the hype is about. You can easily squirt your own bottle of Hidden Valley Ranch Dressing and have it taste the same. 4. The red sauce is FIERY hot. You want to be really, really careful with how much you put in your food if you have low tolerance. It's essentially tons of red chili powder in a water mixture. 5. ALL four of my companions (myself included!) had upset stomachs the next day -- which we all confidently attributed to the food we got here. Not only was the food tasteless, but the post-consumption stomach problems really exacerbated our collective experience. The only good thing was that the long line moved quickly and they immediately handed you your food upon ordering. I will NEVER recommend any of my friends to come here, nor will I give this cart another chance. Bummer.
I'm sorry, I still don't get what all the hype is about. ?I've given the "original" Halal cart several tries, but I'm still not a fan. ?My biggest qualm is that the meat has no flavor whatsoever - I prefer when the chicken has been cooked with some sort of spices and onions/peppers. ?I can think of half a dozen other cart's I'd rather eat from. In fact, I live 4 blocks away and I'd still rather go to my favorite chicken and rice place in Union Sq than come here. ? I think this Halal cart has become far too commercialized ?and gimmicky ( I think I saw special Halal Guys souvenir bags? Wtf!?) and that their food product is definitely not as good as other places. ?On that note, to each his own. ?Eh, it''s not my taste, but the other hundreds of reviewers here all can't be wrong. ?Go ahead and give it a try, standing in that long-ass line is a NY right of passage I guess.
LOVE chicken n rice since it's overcrowded, 3-hr wait, days..
Dear Tourists, Don't believe the hype! This is not the best or even close to the best street meat Midtown has to offer. Stop giving this place 4 and 5 star-ratings that lead other poor tourists to throw away their tourist dollars on bland, tasteless meat that has been so vigorously chopped that its texture resembles that of sawdust. The always inexplicably long line is not an indicator of the cart's quality as its made up of misled tourists such as yourself, and locals who value quantity over quality (or just so lazy that they can't be bothered to travel more than a block or two). Yes it's a lot of food for $6, but it's not very good food. Yes, the hot sauce is hot, but lacks depth. Yes, it's consistent -- though sadly now, it's consistently bad. Go across the street to the imitator cart if you're lazy. Go a few blocks south to Kwik Meal. Go east to King of Falafel or Uncle Gussy's. All much worthier carts/trucks than the shell of what used to be the best street meat in Midtown. Sincerely, Concerned Local
Long lines, but a great place for a yummy and cheap lunch. It is good but I haven't had any other halal cart food to compare to. Definitely an NYC checklist item.
I heard a lot about this cart at this specific location. Finally I made it there but the line was too long that I had to think twice. I made up my mind and joined the line. Service was quick and food was so good. It's worth the trip. ********************
I am a HUGE fan of these guys. I come here almost all the time. I mean, who doesn't want yummy cheap food? I literally take the subway all the way from Battery Park to here as much as I can. The guy is friendly as well. He always has a permanent smile etched on his face. People who haven't tried this little piece of heaven -- have to. It's a must.
Amazing, every time, have never been disappointed. I have gotten the same thing everytime, since it is way too good. Combo over rice, one red sauce, 3 white sauces. Honestly, cannot wait for the East Village store to open/crowds to die down so I don't have to trek all the way to the street cart location. ?Hip Hip Halal !!!!
I have to say - I was reluctant to ever try food from food carts. That was until my boyfriend would rave about this place all the time and finally, I got the courage to try it. It was MUCH better than expected. In fact, I enjoyed it so much and will definitely be back!
Do not see the big deal. I'm a halal food expert and just because they cycle through chicken like crazy deeming them fresh doesn't mean it tastes good. I cook better chicken than they do. It's dry, no flavor, not friendly, and the only reason people like it is because they cover the flavorless chicken and rice with copious amounts of sauces. Been there around 6 times and even wrote a college paper on them. It's more interesting to see people stand on the long ass line for the same chicken you will get at the cart right by them which is owned by the Halal guys themselves. Trust me! I've tasted both! Overhyped. P.S. One time I was really hungry but had $6 in change. When it was my turn to order and pay the guy got loud with me, "I give you good food, you give me good money!" What an ass. Had to go to the Starbucks right there and ask for bills smh. I'm done with them.
The first time I had platters, it was an impromptu road trip at midnight in our pajamas in high school. It was a warm, summer night and we were in need of an adventure. Little did I know that I would find such a prize at the end of it. Since then I have initiated many a convert to the Halal Guys. My boyfriend and I even did a taste test recently between the Guys and the impostor cart that tries to sneak some customers during the day and it was no contest. Halal guys, all the way. People have raved about the white sauce, but I think the key to their success is the rice. Perfectly flavored, moist and an essential foundation to the entire meal.
Being a Russian, I eat and drink ALOT. Great spot to take a cab to, "Wait right here sirrr.." *Cab takes off* Fast service, a little too greasy for my taste but delicious clean Halal food, cooked to perfection and served at perfect price. Next time your drooling, stumbling or just got some serious munchies, take the trip it will be worth it. WARNING: Hot sauce is brutally scrumptious don't put too much, hic cups for days! Cheers!
My first time at Halal despite my four years in nyc. Now I see what people are raving about. But I'm not sure it's that midblowing. It's good and for the prices the portions are great! Though I'm not obsessed. Maybe I should try the falafel, I mean I got lamb and well lamb's not my thing :p
I've had much better street meat at three other carts and a truck. ?I don't get the hype. ? Seeing a food cart with 4k+ reviews and 4.5 stars - last night, when cold after seeing an awesome concert, I had to give Halal Guys a try. ?No line, quick and easy to get the food. Eating at home though, you can barely tell it's meat. ?No texture, it's chopped up crap. ?Tastes maybe half a level higher than Taco Bell. ? And the hot sauce. ?Sorry, no. ?Just too frikkin hot. ?Brutal. ?No reason to be that hot, no reason to soak into your skin like that and then when tired try to take out your contact and feel pain for an hour while trying to sleep. ?That all is my fault, but still. ?No. Uncle Gussy's food truck is about 15x better, same price, and at the corner of 51st and Park. ?I'm heading there today to get the taste of Halal Guys out of my mouth.
Oh Halal, how i miss theeee. I could eat from a halal cart every day and not get sick of it. This one is such a good deal, and the lamb is really moist and fresh since it gets so much business. There is even a taxi/to go line (seriously, thought this guy was trying to cut in front of me. It's just a short walk from Rockefeller, so if you are in that area, I would trek the extra few blocks to get food here.
Finally got to try this food. Its my first time having food cart and its one of the best food that i ever had. this food stand was suppose to start at 7:30 pm, but there was a line already when my family approach this area so the workers had to start a bit early. my family decided to get chicken over rice with pita bread plate for $6. There are type of sauce you can choose from, the red sauce which is the more spicier flavor while the white sauce is more sweeter taste. We got to type both sauces since we order two chicken over rice. While we were eating our food at the sitting area close by the Halal Guys food stand, the line got really long even though they were open for only twenty minutes. We got lucky enough before the long got really long. $6 without tax for chicken over rice is really cheap and can get you full if you eat it by yourself. I would definitely some here again whenever i am in NY. Again its a simple dish yet it was tasty at the same time. and cheap price for the among of food they give you in one dish. Its worth your money to buy their food
Its really a "2.5" stars for these guys ... Better than a 2, but not quite a 3 ... The food is just "Ok" ... I don't LOVE Halal food, but even so, I've had better! Try the cart on 58th & 8th, across from the Time Warner Center. Nevertheless, these guys are open all f'n night, despite how f'n cold it is outside, so they get points for that. And the price is fair/decent enough for a what comes out to being a pretty generous portion of food ... Can't say I care for their attitude though ... particularly cuz the last time I went, there wasn't even a line or anything, so they had no call to be as dismissively indifferent as they were ... Hmmm .... Good point, EJ! Just for that, I'm bringing them down to a "2". F' you, 53rd & 6th Halal Cart! You're not such hot sh*t!
I asked my friend to take me here because it was on my list to try when visiting new york. Meh..Overrated. There was a guy eating very enthusiastically near by so I was looking forward to try it. But I thought it was really dry. The white sauce made it better but not much. ?At least now I know what it taste like
When slightly buzzed from the 2 glasses of beer and realizing college is over and you can no longer hang, this Halal cart takes away any fear of impending age and anxiety. This is street food at its best and is worth the 5 bucks for the amount of food you get. White and red sauce should be used generously and are a must!
This is the only cart my family and I go to when we visit NYC! The food is excellent and the employees are super friendly.
Best Halal/Street Meat I've had since I moved to NYC. ?WOW! Went on a Saturday night around 8pm and had to wait in line for about 20 minutes. ?One of the guys walked through the line to greet us and give us a complimentary, reusable bag to keep our food warm once we got it. ?I ordered the combo (half falafel, half chicken over rice) and drenched it in the white sauce. ?The food was so unbelievable, I barely spoke a word to the other person I was with. ?My stomach was not a huge fan of me a few hours later, but I will definitely return!!
I'm not sure if this is for the right cart; there were four in the same block, and they were all wearing the same logo gear and using the same signs. Either they've gotten successful enough to own four carts in one spot, or it's very clever thievery of another guy's success. This truly is the best halal cart I've ever had. I was reluctant to buy into the hype, and freezing cold as we lined up thirty people deep, even if the line was moving fast. The chicken over rice plate is only $6, and satisfied four of us. The chicken was moist, and the rice richly savory. I love that they set out the sauces for you to go to town, which is exactly what I did with the hot sauce, even though one of the guys peeked out from behind the cart and told me to be careful hah.
It is the best halal cart in the city, there's always a long line during lunch hour. Big portions, worth a try.
the white sauce was addictive my food was drenched in it. I really like how they put all the sauces on the side so you can add as much as you want. Had the lamb and gyro combo. ?$6 to get that much meat. pita bread, rice and unlimited sauce it was definitely a good deal.
I caught a cab on the way out of Barney's last night and asked the driver to go to 53rd and 6th. ?He asked if I was going to the Hilton. ?Told him nope, the halal cart. ?Hilarity ensued. ? Hands down the best halal cart in the city. ?The combination lamb and chicken with rice was a very generous serving for $6. ?They give sauce on the side, super. ?Also, this is the only halal cart that hasn't given me a gluten histamine reaction. ?And if it's raining like yesterday, Starbucks is right there and every customer had halal cart
tried it for the first time yesterday and it was perfection! the white sauce was addictive my food was just drenched in ?it. I really like how they put all the sauces on the side so you can add as much as you want. It makes it ?a lot more convenient. ? Had the lamb and gyro como and it was huge split it with my best friend and both of us were full! for 6 bucks to get that much meat. pita bread, rice and unlimited sauce it was definitely a good deal.
After seeing a comedy show on broadway, we walked up here for a Gyro based on favorable Yelp recommendations. The Gyro sandwich was one of the best I have ever had. The meat was flavorful and juicy. The sauce was creamy and garlicy. The pita bread was warm and soft. My husband complained that there were ?no onions, but for me it was perfect.
If you're only in New York for a short period of time, you should definitely be stopping at this legendary food cart to fill your stomach up. The prices are cheap, the food is amazing, and the sauces can definitely be bottled and sold nation wide. As you can see from the thousands of other reviews, this is the kind of eatery that you wouldn't mind waiting in line for.
It's alright. If you're in the area (ie going to MoMA), worth checking them out, just so you know what it's about. The portion of food is very generous and the service is very efficient... a bit too efficient sometimes (rude). The hot sauce is super hot, so I recommend getting it on the side. The best part about their rice plate is the pita bread that has a nice flavor compared to regular pita bread.
I have no words to describe the taste their food have... Superbly delicious Chicken over rice or may it be Lamb over rice - its just so yummy!! Have been going to this little spot on all weekends at late after mid-night ! Its just tastes heavenly.. Anytime you go, there is a line of atleast 50 people waiting to order and they are served within minutes. Its always fun to sit on the benches around or in the car and enjoy this amazing food. My favorite is - Chicken/Lamb mix over Rice with lot of white sauce and some red sauce :) I can eat this food anytime of the day and everyday !
Even at 8pm on a Monday night there must have been 50+ people in line, although it went quickly. As you get up to the front they are like bam-bam-bam, you better know what you want. ?I picked the combo plate over rice and they have a bunch of guys that are working at warp speed and they jam a huge pie-pan full of food into a plastic bag with fork and sauce and sent me on my way. ?For $6. Got back to the hotel and it was indeed a pie-plate full of food. ?It was good and really too much for one person. A word of warning that you may have read on here but warrants repeat - that hot red sauce that they include with your oder is motherf%#ng hot. ?I'm not sure what sort of isotope or nuclear byproduct it is and I generally like stuff hot-hot-hot (indian food, thai food, mexican food) but this stuff will give you chemical burns, use with extreme caution and test before you pour any of it on something you will put in your body. ?It should come with safety gloves for handling.
What happens when you're in Vegas with a few buddies from NYC, and you're just some kid who's from Cali, where they call San Francisco "The City". But let's be honest here, NYC is truly "the city". Years of hearing how LEGIT this cart is, compared to all the other carts in the city, you can't help but to only come here. First night in NYC, after a strong and aggressive night at Cirlce, had to come out here. Line was not bad, but granted, it was a Thursday night. SIX DOLLARS FOR THAT AMOUNT OF FOOD? Chyeah, buy me two, I'll save the second one for my morning after brunch. Oh my shit, wow, wtf, what. Don't know how else to explain it. The combo plate lived up to its hype. It's as if they sprinkle crack on their meat. No joke. I was already piss drunk from the night and devoured my first place. I'm not a huge fan of white sauce in the first place, but the white sauce was helpful because I'm an idiot and put a ton of hot sauce on it. Yeah, be careful, all the other reviewers are right, this is MAD SPICY. I think I can handle spicy, but I swear, you put too much of it on, your taste buds numb, and you won't be able to taste anything. Luckily, I had my second plate, and I made sure that was fixed. So I ended up saving the spicy one for the next day, and my goodness, spicy upon spiciness. It was still good. The rice is great, pita is great, even the lettuce. I don't know what else I can really say more, but I came out of retirement to write this review after coming back from an aggressive weekend. Cheers 53rd and 6th, I hope to see you again very, very soon.
I work across the street from these guys. ?For $6, you really can't go wrong. ?But if you have a delicate stomach, probably best you keep walking. ?By the way, this seems to be a little known fact, but the food the night crew serves is not nearly as good as the food the day crew serves. ?Best to come at lunch. ?Be there right at noon (or just before) to beat the lines. ?Don't bother coming any earlier than 11:50 to 11:55, though, because they will frequently wait until closer to noon to start serving lunch.
Tried the Chicken over Rice with EXTRA white sauce after several recommendations while in town for a conference at the Hilton. SO GLAD. I'm with the other Yelpers, it's the sauce that makes it! Line went fast, service was friendly, and I had a belly full of happy. Will be back next time I'm in town! PS. The red sauce is no joke - it's hot! Just sayin!
Got off my Chinatown Bus at 2am, told the taxi to take me to "53rd & 6" and his answer, "ah, hungry for some chicken and rice?" Yup, everyone in NYC knows about this place. We got there around 3am on a Friday, yes there was a line but it was very very fast. They pretty much grab the money outta your hands and throw you a bowl of rice & chicken. I think this is more like drunk food. As a sober person, I wasn't too impressed and the white sauce MADE the chicken tasty & the hot sauce made me cry. ?Hey, but it's only 6 bucks!
It is one of my favorite places in NYC Great food and a must visit for everyone in NYC
It's so hard to not love the Halal Guys. Whether it's the early evening to late night, the food always hits the spot. And for only $6.00?!? It's a freaking steal, especially in NYC. Oh and remember to go easy on the hot sauce, it's freaking spicy. Recommendation: Chicken on Rice
Awesome chicken rice or lamb rice ever
The best late night chicken and rice! Be sure to get white sauce (you can ask for extra) and get hot sauce on the side- it's very spicy!
Holy moly! One of the damn best meals I've had in my life. Lol, that's a little sad, ain't it? On my 3 day trip to NYC, I had this 3 times. That's ridiculous. Located on 53rd & 6th avenue, you won't miss this place, cause there's about 3 Halal Guy carts on this corner. $6 gets you a fat bowl/plate of rice, veggies & your choice of protein. I stuck to the Gyro/Chicken & Rice. Don't forget the white sauce! And a dash of hot red. OMG so damn delicious & fattening. Line moves fairly quick. The guys move quick! I miss it already, can't wait to go back! Best thing to eat especially after a night of drinking. This is serious must eat in NYC!
A couple of years ago, I would have given this place, without hesitation, a solid 5 stars. I recently went back, on a mission to satisfy my undeniable late-night craving for a good old plate of lamb over rice. Unfortunately however, that craving was not sated and ultimately mission failed :( I don't know what it is, but it was clearly not as good as I had remembered it when I first had it back in 2010ish, which a friend of mine who had it with me both times, could vouch for me on this. Something was just lacking--and not to mention how overpowering the saltiness was, it was hard for me to taste anything else! I don't remember ever having this issue before, only how incredibly good it was. Sigh...
It's a shame that my first experience eating halal was with The Halal Guys... I can't stand eating halal anywhere else! The Halal Guys are truly different, exactly as their sign states, "We are Different.' Personally the difference for me, is the seasoning of the chicken, the freshness of their veggies and inclusion of naan. (There are very few halal carts in the city, that serve naan with your halal.) And as disappointing as it may be to wait in a line, outside, the line moves QUICKLY. The Halal Guys is a def must for a quick, cheap and scrumptious eat!
Is there anyone who doesn't know The Halal Guys? ?The ever so famous food cart on 53rd and 6th that everyone knows, everyone loves, and everyone stays loyal to. ?The only food cart I would crave from time to time. The only food cart that would make me drive to the city at 2 AM just to appease my chicken and rice craving. The kind of food perfect sober or drunk. The kind of food that will always leave you satisfied. The only food cart that has sauce I go ga-ga for. The food cart that could make customers happily wait in line rather than cross the street for another halal cart with zero line. ?Oh Halal Guys, I don't know what spell you have on me.. but I'm yours.. totally yours..
Best $6.00 ever! You get huge helpings. ?Make sure to put extra white sauce on your plate.
Was blessed to find this place with a very small line. ?After eating halal cart food, I now know what all the hype is about. This stuff is life changing. ?Shredded pieces of meat and fresh lettuce and seasoned rice all topped with this amazing white and red sauce. ?It's so basic, but it is just so damn satisfying. ?The flavors and the textures combined seem to satisfy every nook and cranny of my tastebuds. ?Revolutionary!
Visited here after hearing about it...def worth the long line! The sauce is the secret ingredient !!
this place is definitely hyped up... i got the falafel and chicken.. but they only gave me one tiny falafel.... the sauce is what makes this place.. i dont think its anything super special.. i waited my ass off in line and it was freezing... i think its drunk food so everyone loves it.. i think i probs should try this place during lunch or something. maybe i was too full from dinner.. to get another late night snack.. but as of now, my review still stands.. dont think this place was as delicious as i expected it to taste.
Insane amount of food at a low price. Servers are often incredibly rude, but they probably think they've "earned" that right given how outrageously popular the cart is. And yes, it really is much better than other halal carts. Worth the trip.
I had high hopes for this food cart, and let me tell you, they were EXCEEDED. I had the flu all week and food just tasted so bland. Until I took a bite of the combo bowl! Simply heaven for $6 flat. Rice was delicious, bread was fluffy, the meat was juicy. And that white sauce, let me tell you. I could eat it with anything and I'm glad I got extra! Soooo good! The red sauce is HOT so I recommend getting it on the side! You will love this cart, it's incredible!
Listen, this place is the best chicken and rice place or lamb, I've ever been to. However there is one problem, this place is not in San Francisco. Opening shop with a foodtruck/cart on market near fourth street would be awesome, you know, because it's right next to my work and I don't have to fly to NY just for food everyday :)
Such a ridiculous long line! ?Why?!? ?There are hundreds of Halal trucks all over NYC but because this tourist trap is near Times Square, people want to have the "experience". This is no different than any other Halal truck. In fact, these people will put less work into your food and more work into that register. Ok, I take that back. I'm sure these guys work very hard. Im convinced that the line here is so long because lines create lines, create lines, create lines and so on.... People are drawn to long lines, they want to find out what they're missing. I am NOT one of these people. Kudos to the owner! All these crazed zombies want to stand in line for the same exact food every other Halal truck serves. Lucky you. Don't stand on this line if you have any sort of common sense. Most of these people are either tourist or outer borough imbeciles who don't get out much. The unavailability of Halal food in THEIR neck of the woods, creates chaos in OUR neck of the woods. Do yourself a favor and go to another Halal truck. They are everywhere! FYI the food is the definition of mediocre and hot sauce is extremely suicidally hot! Oh, did I mention I HATE POINTLESS LONG LINES at 3am?? Skip it!!!!!
Why did I choose to eat an entire pie tin full of lamb, chicken, rice, pita, and random pieces of lettuce all covered in yogurty white stuff and spicy red stuff in under 10 minutes during my lunch break? I mean, it was good. And the price was right. But did I think I was invincible? Halfway through finishing my food I began sweating. Not intense sweating -- just a light perspiration, a sweaty dew that suffused my entire body within minutes. I was glistening by the time I finished my meal. Although this was irksome, it wasn't as bad as the bloated feeling I got 45 minutes later. No matter how I adjusted my posture as I sat at my desk, I couldn't get my gut to recede back into my pants. I could feel my "Halal Guys" meal sloshing around in my stomach for the rest of the day. And the light sweat? That remained with me all day too. I slept naked so the sticky sweat could be tinged by the cool sheets of my bed in the damp, desolate basement I was staying in. "Cold sweat" normally holds a negative connotation, but I love cold sweat -- it makes me feel like a crisp head of lettuce in the produce section of a supermarket, just after it has been blasted by a cool mist to... ensure freshness, I guess. And so that's how I felt that night -- like a vegetable, ready to be bought and sold.
One of the best, if not the best halal cart I've ever had. Of course being so amazingly delicious comes with a price and in this case, it's a heart stopping, artery clogging, half a day's caloric intake per platter and that's not including the white sauce I usually drown it in! Now knowing that, you can't be eating it too often, maybe once every half a year haha. I love lamb so I usually go for that. I can't handle spicy so I don't put any on but as I said before, that white sauce is doused all over the platter! Because they have such high volumes of customers, they can't take time to put the exact amount of sauce (red or white) you want so they have a little station after you get your platter to put as little or as much of each condiment your soon to be hating you heart desires!
There's two carts on this intersection. ONLY GO TO THE HALAL GUYS. They are the original. Halal guys is so good that it is hard to describe. I only get the combo over rice, which is lamb and chicken over yellow rice, then I get the white sauce and a little bit of red sauce (spicy). I can't even begin to describe how good this dish is. It is pure happiness, I felt like my life was complete after eating it. The ingredients and the meat and rice came together with such flavor that I just want to shout in joy. My heart beats faster every time I think about this place. If you haven't tried Halal Guys, then you haven't lived!
I love this place, nuff said...
Although there are better halal carts to be found in the city (for example, try the one on Little Neck Parkway and Hillside Avenue in Queens, next to the Pizza Hut), this one is the staple of all carts. One of the originals. Going to college in Brooklyn, my fraternity brothers and I would make weekly meca trips to this spot, just to stand in line for 45 minutes (drunk, might I add) for a taste of that delicious mystery meat soaked in, hands down, the best white sauce ever conceived. ?That sauce is really what makes this place special. If you're a cart fan, you have to do this before you die.... or get sick of cart food.
DELICIOUS. Get some and then go wait in the standby line for SNL.
Great place to eat if you're willing to wait. Pros: -Amazing food for $6. Chicken over rice with white sauce is great. -Large portions Cons: -Long lines - will be busy almost all the time. -No seating area
Good food but not worth waiting in line for (or all the hype). If you see less than 10 people in line, by all means get in line and wait minute or two. However, this food isn't any better than any other chicken and rice I've had at any other Halal cart/truck. In fact, the white sauce had bit of a mayonnaise flavor to it. A line of 30-40 people took about 12 minutes to serve so it wasn't terribly long if a wait. There are some tables across the street if you happen to be lucky enough to find one not being used - remember it's NYC and it's okay to share a little table with strangers. Prices are reasonable and potions are large enough.
When I went to NYC, I was lucky enough to stay at the Hilton, so this halal cart was literally right outside our door. Even if I hadn't been staying there, I would have made the trek because so many friends had already urged me to go. It was the perfect late-night snack after a night of dancing (at the salsa/bachata congress being held at the Hilton). Even though lines were long, they went fast. Honestly, I would have probably had this all three nights, but the halal cart closed up early on the last night of my stay, maybe because there were no dancers left because the three-day congress was over? I can't eat a full plate by myself unless I portion it out over several meals. The bf who ate the entire plate solo was hurting a bit after. It's a LOT of food. NOM.
The line is massively long so I go to the 52nd and 6th. ?FYI , all the carts on that entire ?square radius, have the same food LOL. ?I've seen these vans distribute the same product. ?But 52nd and 6th is my to go spot, rarely do I see it exceed it more than 5 people at a time from all hours. Always fresh and hot, big plus is that I can get onions, peppers,and toms with it =)
This is my goto spot for a cheap, hearty and just tasty comfort meal late night. Chicken and rice with white sauce (get extra!) With some dabs of their hot sauce! I dream of this from all the way on the west coast Defin. Stop by and try it
After a long night looking for a missing car at the tow pound, Halal Guys is a must. Line is always long but moves quick. Combo platter with a tub of yogurt sauce please. Great place to people watch on a Friday night too...after party...group of drunk guys making an ass of themselves...check! Sexy ladies with short dresses, high heels and makeup running...check! Yeaaaaa. Burp!
The one place which was recommended to me by all my friends who have visited New York City lately was Halal Guys. And I can see why that was. Note: I actually went to the East Village location, as it was on my way to where another one of my friends lived. But it's the same guys and not some imitation cart. I heard this was only opened recently? I went for the chicken and rice. My friend got the mixed meats dish with a bit of red sauce. I just went with all white sauce for mine. Make sure to ask for extra white sauce to add into the dish, as it'll make it even more flavorful. We brought it back to his girlfriend's place where we could sit and eat it, and it was a good thing we ate there with couches because I was overwhelmed by how freakin amazing it was. Greatest food coma ever. The best part is how crazy cheap it is for how big the platter is and how delicious it was. I couldn't finish it all in one sitting since I had a few other things to eat before it, so I brought it back to my friend's apartment and finished it the next day as a midnight snack. It's still great after it's been in the fridge overnight, FYI.
DAT WHITE SAUCE!!! If you're anywhere near Midtown Manhattan for whatever reason, Halal Guys is always a MUST. $6 = ?a monster meal for yourself OR a meal to share between you and your main squeeze. The combo mix (lamb & chicken) never disappoints!
WHats not to love? The food is prepared quickly and piping hot with an amazing taste you will find with NO OTHER Halal vendors. ?Its yummy on the go and I have been known to travel an extra 25 minutes out of my way for a plate!
I used to be a religious chicken and rice guy. Then I switched to chicken and lamb on rice. I'm now all about the lamb on rice. Can't lose this place is awesome. Just be careful with the hot sauce. I love spicy food but this is super hoooooot!
Best street food ever. I love the combo plate w chicken and lamb. If you get it to go get 2 white sauces and 2 red sauces. As in alchemy there is the law of equivalent exchange. The deliciousness and spiciness of the red sauce comes at a price. Your anus will shout at the toilet angrily. But you'll still say it was worth it.
This remains some of the tastiest street food I've eaten in my life. The combination of chicken, rice, pita bread, lettuce and various sauces tastes incredible. This praise of The Halal Guys doesn't serve as me "hyping them up" - their food really is that good. The locations around 53rd and 6th do have downfalls, the greatest of which is a lack of great seating areas. But honestly, with this food coming from a food truck, that's to be expected. Overall, the $6 plates are great, just make sure to go easy on the hot sauce...trust me, it's actually pretty hot.
I had my doubts. And then I waited in a line at 8:30pm on a Friday Night--It's delicious. Honestly, it's delicious. For $6, you get basmati rice, lettuce, tomatoes, falafel, chicken, hot (very, very, very, so deliciously spicy) sauce and oh gosh the magical white sauce. Please go. First time in New York and I enjoyed every last second of this delicious location. These guys wear the shirts 'we're different' and are only there in the evenings (apparently). In Chicago I have to settle for Taco Bell for late night college food. If I had gone to school in New York this would be my joint, night in and night out.
After spending lots of money on food for the past couple of days in the city, it was awesome to be able to find this place. For 6$ you get a tin full of great yellow basmati rice, lettuce, tomatoes, fajita veggies, and falafal. ?I got it covered in hot sauce which made my mouth burn in the best way possible. ?It was awesome. ?Per Yelpers reviews I also decided to bite the bullet on my anti dairy stance and try the "white sauce". ?It was good but the whole bowl was so I doubt it made the difference. ? There was no falafal when we got there so the chef ran to another truck to get it. ?It was still hot and delivicous and I could see the different spices when I bit into it. ?The guys working the truck gave us a discount too because we had to wait which was super nice. ?Nice job yelp on this solid recommendation!
I don't know about you but whenever I visit NYC, I just have to stop by this place to get me some yummy lamb/chicken over rice! I was skeptical at first when my boyfriend recommended it to me on my first NYC visit. I wasn't a lamb person because of the muttony smell from lambs. However, I just couldn't pass up on something that everyone and their mother's loved. So I tried it. And I LOVED it. Their lamb was more like ground beef and it didn't have that normal smell or taste that lambs usually have. It's either beef or they seasoned it so well that you didn't even know it was lamb! For $6 you get a huge platter with rice, some lettuce, pita bread, and of course, lamb or chicken or both! DON'T forget the white sauce OR the hot sauce! You have to pour BOTH of them on there! Use caution for the hot sauce though -- it is super spicy! You will feel that burn in your tummy later! I usually get the combination but I'm beginning to love their chicken over rice more so than their lamb. But you always gotta have the lamb or it just doesn't seem right! This place has got so much business that they opened up 3 other carts around the same area., or at least from what I could see the last time I stopped by in NYC. So if you see dudes with yellow jackets/shirts, no worries, they aren't imitations -- they are legit. They got one across the street and two down the same street. If you go to NYC, you HAVE to try this. It doesn't matter if you don't try anything else but THIS, THIS YOU GOT TO.
the lamb with white sauce is a big pile of fantastic
This place is okay. The food was filling and tasty enough after a long night out dancing and drinking. Nothing so amazing that I will be craving it. But as far as food trucks go, I don't think I've tried enough chicken over rice dishes from different carts to be a fair judge of what is great chicken and rice.
The only Street Meat I crave.
Great Food! Get extra white sauce! Also GREAT and cheap drunk food. The line's always longer, longer at night though. There's also very little places to sit (we sat on the edges of water fountains) I feel bad for the 20 other halal chicken and rice food carts around them cuz they aren't getting any busy being near this one.
I didn't think it would be this delicious when my friend invited me to pick up some "chicken rice" for dinner, but it was superb! ?Delicious rice, juicy chicken (lamb was ok too) and the seasoning was irresistible! ?I kept going back for this food stand again and again afterwards, even though the long lineup was quite painful. ?In addition, a big box of chicken + gyro + rice that is enough for 2 meals all for only $6! ?It's totally worth it!
Everyone should stop here to try it. ?I am not going to say much because everyone else here said it all. Its delicious, don't forget the hot sauce if you like hot.
Definitely better than most halal carts in NYC. Everyone raves about the white sauce but to me it tastes like watered down ranch sauce. For $6 halal at this kart can't be beat. The BIG PORTIONS are simply amazing. One dish could easily fill 2 people up. I like how the meat doesn't seem to look or taste like mystery meat (score). The hot sauce is pretty hot so use sparingly if you're not much of a hot sauce feen. I personally like my dish a bit on the spicy side.
Food is nothing great. The hot sauce is insanity.. and the portions are LARGE! very, very, LARGE!
Where do I start, that the people who come here don't know what flavor is! Its chopped up bland white looking chicken over rice, seriously the only reason people come here is because they believe it's the best. Well save your time and find another cart around the corner because I can guarantee you that those carts cook with love.
1. Fly to NYC 2. Go to the Halal Cart (with the dudes in yellow shirts) 3. Be extremely satisfied 4. Put a shirt on! *In chronological order
One word: UNREAL. Fresh, flavorful, and suprisingly cheap! Line may seem daunting, but it moves fast!
I love the halal guys. This is the best chicken and rice, lamb and rice hands down in new york city. I wouldnt eat at any other street cart other then from these guys. The food always has the best taste and their platters are so big for 6 dollars. I also like that the rice doesnt have an indian taste like some of the other carts we find in new york city. Its definitely worth the long line wait. Also the lines move fast. Their white sauce and hot sauce is so delicious! Warning the hot sauce is very spicy!
This is the first halal cart that comes to mind when I hear "Chicken and Rice". ?Whenever I am near Rockerfeller Center, without fail, I will also want to stop by and grab an order. The infamous truck is the late night munchies haven and the place to get a clean and tasty chicken and rice platter. ?White sauce all the way... can do without the pita on a regular day. ? Usually the line is the stinker, but well worth the wait.
I've probably had Halal Guys more than any other "restaurant" in NYC and still get cravings on the regular. This place is definitely more than the sum of its parts. I always get the mixed over rice. The chopped up pits of lamb each has a little bit of char. The chicken is garlicy. The white sauce is tangy and sweet while the red sauce is insanely spicy but blends perfectly. Mix it all together and you get a bowl is deliciousness. No extraneous bell peppers or giant pieces of filler onion like other chicken and rice carts. It's unique, filling, and punches you in the taste buds. Sure it might clear out your bowels afterwards but definitely leaves you wanting more next time.
I was planning on visiting Manhattan recently so went on yelp to see what I could find. ?Under most reviewed, I saw that these guys got 4.5 stars so I had to give it a shot. To nearly 4000 yelpers who gave this establishment 4.5 stars I have 3 questions. ?1. Really? ?2. Really? ?3. I mean, really? I got a combo, poured a bunch of white sauce on it and a few drops of red sauce per instructions from fellow yelpers, sat down by the fountain, famished and ready to enjoy some deliciousness. No taste, no spiciness. ? So I went back and squirted a bunch more red sauce, sat down by the fountain again and... nothing. ?So I went back and really dowsed it with the red sauce and... ?still nothing. ?That's when I realized that this thing is ketchup! ?No taste, just a little sweetness! I ended up tossing most of it but the bad taste (literally) lingered so I went into a McDonald's and had an ice cream to try to get rid of the bad taste. ?It worked to a certain extent. First, I was not sure whether this food wanted to be gyro or shawarma because it failed miserably at both. ?Shawarma has some pretty good seasoning (cumin, coriander, etc.) and is served with Tahini. ?When done correctly, it is mighty tasty. Gyro, on the other hand, is equally good with other seasonings and is served with Tzatziki sauce made with yogurt and garlic and... They are both made from slabs of meat piled on top of each other layered with fat which all slowly cooks vertically. ?This concoction from the Halal Guys was some boiled chicken and lamb on a grill with no seasonings, not even your basic salt and pepper. ?They called it gyro on the menu but that it isn't. ?What it is I couldn't tell you because I could not figure it out. In summary, my fellow yelpers, if you want a copious amount of very bland food then this is your place. ?The only reasons I gave it 1 star were 1. That's the least yelp will allow us, 2. The portion was quite large. I will definitely not be going back to this place.
I was very excited to check this place out because, despite my frequent visits to the city and all the great things I heard about this place, I never got to try it. So finally, at 12 AM one night, my friend and I headed over to halal cart to get the oh-so-famous chicken over rice. It definitely lives up to the hype! (and I think it will be 1029 times better as drunchies) FOOD: Great! And oh god, that white sauce...I drenched my food with that. So much food just for $6! The line was long, but it went by very quickly and was definitely worth the ~5 min wait. The hot sauce is actually really spicy but complements it very well. I don't really have another way of describing the food here except by saying it's amazing and everyone must try it! SERVICE: Despite the crowd and the drunk people, the workers were very friendly! Overall, totally worth it!
These guys are great! ?Solid street meat at $6 per plate. Sandwich options available. ?Perfect for lunch and late night eats.
I may critique saying I have no idea how chicken over rice is Middle Eastern, and my friend retorts, well how is fried rice considered "Chinese" but regardless, we both have a resounding conclusion: DAYUM this is so GOOD! Tips: -Be careful with the hotsauce, the reason why it's in such a smaller container when compared to the white sauce is because it's HOT. HOT. HOT. -ORDER MIX PLATE!!! you won't regret it. $6 for literally everything, and I think $5 for the falafel wrap. Although there's tons of these gyro, halal carts everywhere, the biggest reason why these guys stand out for me is their RICE. so if you're in the area, I strongly recommend this as a must-eat. Share it with someone if you aren't even hungry! ps: I'm strongly convicted the white sauce is just some diluted ranch.
Really good food for a great price. One of my best food experiences in New York. I got the gyro and chicken plate with extra white and BBQ sauce. The red sauce is hot!
A buddy of mind recommended the Halal Guys to me a few years ago and I've been coming back every chance I get. ?Huge portions for cheap and open at just about any hour. ?Chicken over rice is my personal favorite but lamb is no slouch either, extra white sauce is always good as well and beware the hot sauce. ?In case the line is too long at the one spot look across the street or go up a block to one of their other carts just make sure that it still is the Halal Guys and their yellow bags.
i think this place is a bit hyped.... it's was ?good portion, but it's mostly rice. ?plus i don't think the meat is flavorful enough. ?eh... i've had better...
Seeing all these carts around, I thought they all were the same. ?After hitting up MOMA ?(Museum of Modern Art), we decided to stop by one of these carts to get a lamb/chicken rice bowl. ?For $6 they sure give you a lot of food for the money. ?Lots of flavorful lamb and chicken in additional to the white sauce and the hot red sauce makes this a match-made in heaven! ?Get here early since there's always a line and of course... CASH OWNREE!
Far and away the best cart experience Ive had in NYC. Must hit for midtown
Its just heavenly. ?The notion of eating street meat is just completely thrown out the door when you eat at this cart. All time favorite.
taking subway on a stormy snowy day on x'mas day...and they are open! LOVE the food, extra sauce plz!
Ok this is the best thing to happen to 4am drunk partiers, at least in NYC. The portion is huge for $6 platter. It usually makes 2-3 meals for me. Really flavorful. Really greasy, but really flavorful. BEWARE the hot sauce that will burn your insides if you smother your chicken/lamb with it. I'm not sure what sort of wizardry goes in to making the stuff, but it is literally the hottest hot sauce I've ever had. Don't make the mistake of thinking the hot sauce is the BBQ sauce. You will die. Bottom line, if you're in Manhattan and it's 4am and you're hungry. COME TO HALAL GUYS. Then proceed home with a full belly in a drunken stupor
Just when I thought it couldn't get any better, it did! Their lines are always long, but the wait is never long. The mixed dish with rice, chicken, and gyro is delicious with the BBQ sauce along with the spicy sauce and the white sauce! Yum yum! I didn't hear about the BBQ sauce until recently and couldn't be more happy that I tried it! Service is fast and friendly! Cash only!
Plan on waiting in line because it is sometimes 50 or more deep especially when its warmer out. This is an icon in manhattan and the chicken and lamb platter is to die for. Make sure you get extra white sauce this should be bottled and sold its that good!
Definitely try this halal truck out. You'll love it and will most likely be just as addicted as me. Get mixed with both sauces, which includes rice, chicken, beef, lamb, and lettuce. If you don't eat beef or lamb they have a chicken and rice option. If you're willing to try things, go all out. If you don't like spicy then use the red sauce sparingly. And be careful when your adding the sauces yourself as they also have a red bottle of bbq sauce which I haven't tried but can be disappointing when you think it's hot sauce. Every time I'm in New York I always stop here - as much as I can. So much good food in NY and I always try to have this for dinner at least twice and my latest addition to my NY trips I bring some back with me in tupperware. Lol It's definitely one of the things I look forward to whenever I'm in New York. I've tried to venture out to other trucks, but they don't look the same and they don't give as much as these guys. Now if only I could find one here in SF, I wouldn't have to travel across country for this....
The famous. And Tasty. And big. Just be careful with the hot sauce. It's really hot.
Overhyped? Not really, it's the best street meat in manhattan. The lamb and chicken are tender and cooked to perfection! It's a little greasy, but it's not disgustingly greasy. It's never burnt nor does it ever taste stale. It's a huge portion. The basmati rice isn't soggy. It's really just good freaking cart food. I'm not sure what the 2-star ratings are all about. Honey, it's card food, it doesn't get any better than this!
Everyone has said everything already so I'll make this nice and short. 1. I come here every time I'm in NY. I'm from LA. Worth the wait. 2. Tastes good sober or not so sober. 3. Cheap. Unless you're a big guy or hella hungry, one can feed two. 4. The red sauce is friggin hot. Even if you like spicy like me, test out a drop of it first. TRUST me. White sauce is a must have. Tons of it. 5. Yes, it still tastes good the next day even if it's cold. Someone finance this to come to the west coast. Thanks!!
Ohhhh soooo good. Worth every penny. I ordered the combo platter and put both white and hot sauce on. But, be careful, the hot sauce is really really hot.
If you are visiting NY or even if you live in NY, you have to make this a stop whenever you are in town. ?As simple as it sounds, their chicken rice is so good! My friends and i shared a plate and the plate itself is pretty big. ?I came here around 3am and there was still a line. ?Then again this is NYC after all. ? We got the chicken over rice and added extra extra white sauce and a tiny bit of the red sauce. ?I heard the red sauce is super spicy so we only got a little since we didn't want heart burn in the middle of the night. ?I was excited to take my first bite and it was amazing. ?It was actually beyond amazing and it's best to eat it when it's still hot. ? They give you a few pieces of naan to go with it, but i saw it's best with it. ?I can eat this every day! I regret sharing it with my friends now.
If you are to eat ONE thing in new york, it's THIS. I regret not eating it the very first day.. we actually waited until our last night.. and then we got it to go again on the plane ride home the next morning. It says they open at 10 but we still had to wait awhile for them to set everything up and cook in the morning. OH!! & don't forget the onions & bell peppers & tomatoes with the plate. They didn't include that the first time. I actually like the gyro meat more than the chicken. But it's really that white sauce thoughhhh. GO EASY ON THE RED SAUCE. it's FIYAH. my bf's face was BURNING red for at least an hour after we ate it the first time. Extra white sauce please!!
i didn't get it? ?maybe i expected too much. ?it's just sloppy, inexpensive street food. ?it was decent. ?i don't feel compelled to ever have it again. ?if it's nearby and you're hungry- it's $6 well spent. ?in my opinion, craving this type of meal or going out of your way for it is ridiculous. ?not bad, but definitely overhyped. ?good enough for 3 stars, but not worthy of 4 or more.
If you're visiting New York, and you have to try one food... it's this! ? ?New York is crawling with food carts nowadays and chicken and rice (or lamb) dishes are plentiful but the tastiest of them all is here at Halal guys. ?Just watch out for their red sauce, it's like a spiciness level 10 out of 10 lol. ?However, feel free to drizzle the white sauce liberally, it's the best. ? I make sure to always come here every time I visit new york.
Probably the best possibility of what I'll eat or where I'll go on a weekend. Especially because my cafeteria food is terrible. Not too far from where I live and is so yummy!!! I can never finish a whole platter myself. I love their chicken and rice, minus the lettuce. The white sauce is perfect. If only they had another stand closer to me... or delivered! I always recommend this place for a late night fix!
Love getting food here after a night out! Love the lamb with white sauce. Super cheap and you're given a huge portion. Worth waiting in that long line!
Coming from Washington, DC, the value and quality of the meals at the Halal Guys beats any of the overpriced and generally lousy street food/food truck you can find here. My friend mentioned this being one of the best cheap eats in the city, so on our trip to NY, we decided to check it out. The line is long but moves quickly. There was about 40 people in front of us, but the wait took no more than 10-15 minutes. I got the chicken and gyro combination on rice. They basically only have three selections: chicken, gyro, chicken/gyro. While the meal wasn't the best I ever had in comparison to some expensive restaurants, for the price you're paying ($6), the value and quality is amazing. The portions are enormous. The hot sauce which you can ask for is truly spicy. The chicken tastes fresh and not horribly food colored unlike some food trucks which shall-not-be-named in DC. The meal is simple but delicious. I was so satisfied that I bought a second meal to go for my trip back. A day later and after some reheating, the food still tasted pretty good. There are plenty of places that don't live up to the hype, but the Halal Guys is an overwhelming exception.
Now that I've lived in the city for a while and have had time to actually explore the nooks and crannies here, I might have second thoughts about everyone's beloved 53rd and 6th. Now by all means that doesn't mean that I would never come back. I mean, I used to be the Duke here on Yelp, so I was an addict at one point. Nonetheless, there are a lot of other chicken and rice carts in the city that are cheaper, and actually taste better too! First of all, The Halal Guys has gotten so big that they no longer have just one cart. Now, there are 4 carts around 6th Ave, and even one on 7th Ave as well. If you're coming here, then don't be a sucker like all the tourists and wait at that one cart. All the other carts are exactly the same, and have no line. Now, for $6, you can order a number of combinations: - Chicken and rice - Lamb and rice - Mixed plate And if you're not feeling the need to eat so much, you also have the option of the wrap. My personal preference would be the mixed plate because you get a little bit of both. Top that off with some white and red sauce, or even some BBQ, and you're pretty set. As far as from a quantity standpoint, you can't beat 53rd and 6th. They really load you up with meat and rice for that $6. Now on the quality side, this is where my chicken and rice experience chimes in. At The Halal Guys, they pretty much have the meat all cooked and chopped up to go. That means that the meat has been sitting there in the open for god knows how many hours. In the end, you get some super dry chicken that without the white sauce, tastes kind of funky. At your smaller halal carts, you'll actually see them grill up the chicken to order. That means you'll get a juicer piece of meat which does not taste like paper. I do have a special place in my heart for 53rd and 6th, but after eating at other halal carts around the city, I can't honestly say that this is the best chicken and rice that I've had. It's worth the $6 by all means, but just not the holy chicken and rice that everyone drools over.
Can't beat the great taste, awesome budget price, fast service, and quantity of food! ?This beats the restaurants in all categories. Can't wait to go back.
a combination w/ lamb & chicken. hot sauce added
What else do I have to say about this spot that hasn't already been said? Hands down the best bang for your buck in NYC. ?Me getting the mixed plate while in NYC is about as guaranteed as Kobe going beast mode in MSG. ?You know it's going to happen. Here's a tip, the Halal Guys also have a cart directly across the street with hardly ever a line. ?Surprising that the majority don't know this and still wait in the 50 deep line.
Wasn't thrilled to be going to a Falafel place in Paris & I was really concerned when I saw what a dump the place was- but turned out to be some of the best middle eastern food I've had. ?Hummus, falafel, eggplant , pita, all perfect!! ?I'm not even Jewish but I will definitely make a point to go back when in Paris!
I love The Halal Guys but i just cant stand their nasty attitudes. Their also quite stingy if u ask for some extra sauce, they'll tell you to get it yourself on the side that hundreds of people use as well. Other than that, love the lamb more than the chicken. Yay for unhealthy halal ! PS. watch out for puke as this is the place to go after having a good time in the city lol.
As horrible and unhealthy as cart food is, i can't seem to get enough of this place (also known as the Halal Guys). I order lamb & rice (though you can get chicken & rice, or a combination too), with no lettuce, less meat and extra pita, with the sauces on the side (that way i can add how much i want to, rather than it being doused in sauce). It's some of the best late night cart food in the city, lines are usually long but move quickly. There's no place to sit, so i usually take mine to go, but we've eaten there on occasion too when we were really hungry. 1. Just a heads up- their red sauce is really spicy. like your butt-will-burn-the-next-morning-hot. I enjoy spicy food but this sauce has me sipping water throughout my meal. 2. the portions are huge, and they usually last me two, sometimes even three meals (but only because it gets soo heavy with all that mayo) Overall, cheap food ($6), unhealthy but soo yummy, and really good service too (the guys at the cart know us by now, which translates to extra everything. who would complain). Definitely a must try, even if you're just visiting the city.
i'm going to simplify all the fuss about this place in 2 words: white sauce. make sure you put a LOT of it on your chicken and/or lamb and rice plate, it's the sauce that makes the dish. I've tried other halal carts out there and their white sauce is really what beats out the others. try this if you're just visiting NY so you can say you've had the world famous 53rd & 6th chicken and rice plate; come here if you're a NYer and are stumbling out of the clubs/bars at 3am and looking for something greasy and cheap to help you sober up - either way, load up on the white sauce...otherwise, it's just a massive heap of relatively dry chicken, lamb, and rice in a plate. #yelpsbucketlist
I ultimately love this place! I am from Cali and stayed in NY with a friend for about 5 days. and literally everyday, we found ourselves in line at this food truck. The chicken is good but the lamb over rice is definitely to die for. and the price can't get any better. it's around $6-$7 for a huge serving. I can't believe I have to go all the way back to NY to eat this delicious food again!
Beware of imitations, this one is the epitome of all halal carts, the mother of all street meat. The line around the block doesn't take too long, and confirms you're at the right place. Don't pass this up as some other street cart, and even though they essentially only serve one dish (in chicken/beef and spicy combinations) - it's one of the best dishes you can buy in New York City for the price.
This was the first time I ever had halal ever. A lot of friends told me to try it in NY. There seems to be one at every corner, and every one tastes different. We went here for lunch, I got the chicken over rice, it was actually pretty good. There was a line long, which is always a good sight when your eating somewhere. It came with a small hot sauce, I put it all in because it was so small. It was actually pretty spicy so beware. Overall, this halal was one of two I had in NY, and this one was the best.
Me before trying Halal Guys: It's just chicken and rice... meh *indifferent* Me after trying Halal Guys: It's just chicken (and lamb) and rice but HOLY SHIT DELICIOUS! We stopped by at around 11 pm after a classy evening watching a show on Broadway and dining at certain unnamed 3 Michelin star establishments (we're classy, I know), but for a measly $6, the generously portioned contents enclosed in an unassuming aluminum tin vended from a dirty cart parked on a smelly city sidewalk delivered just about the highlight of my day. Seriously, I'm still at a total loss to explain why or how it's so good, but it just is. Best six bucks I spent in NYC.
LOVE the Halal cart on 53rd & 6th!! Get the chicken over rice and put your own white sauce/hot sauce. Be careful with that hot sauce though, because it doesn't seem like it will be spicy- but it sure is!! I have many times put far too much on my plate- and then cried while eating my food anyway! There is a reason why the lines here are long between the hours of 11:30a.m.- 4am: it's amazing!!
Great food sober or drunk! ?Only gripe about this place if I had to have one is the hot sauce is WAAAY too hot. ?Would love it if they had sriracha. ?I would even pay extra for it.
I go to this place at least once a month. The oily, always fresh lamb over rice dish hits the spot every time. Watch out for the hot sauce, it really is hot.
Good food at a very good price. Nothing mind-blowing but good enough. Always get the sauces!!
This is my go-to food cart in NYC. ?Love this place. ?Great price and huge portions. ?I also go for the combo (chicken & Lamb) over rice. ?The white sauce is good and the hot sauce is EXTREMELY hot. ?I really enjoy my mouth being on fire but this is on a whole different hot sauce planet. ?You only need a little for your whole food. ?Lines are usually long but move fairly quickly. ?7pm-4am only for the "original" halal guys.
Pros - Long line but gets moving pretty quickly - Half lamb/chicken - Delicious rice - Awesome yogurt sauce Cons - No seating This was one of the best things I ate in NYC. It's cheap, fast, and delicious. The sauces are on the side of the cart. The hot sauce is a little high. I accidentally grabbed the BBQ sauce at first. Absolutely delicious stuff.
I used to work on the corner of 53rd and 6th, so I was lucky enough to be able to check the line out in advance before venturing out for this nyc 'must see spot'. ?And it never disappoints!
I was skeptical about this family of carts really standing out from all the others but It really is a step above. Any lamb or chicken arrangement is a great meal for the price. Just be warned if you get the sandwich, they tend to construct it in a way that guarantees the messiest meal possible (all the sauce right on top so it gets all over the wrapping and the bag etc).
I think that these guys are some of the most hardworking guys ever! The line is always around the block and they go nonstop. I think the food is good, is it my favorite? I'm still up in their air about it. I do on the other hand think that their sauces are the best I've ever had.
its good but dont finish the whole thing at 3am unless you want to wake up with a tummy ache lol
I moved back to CA two years ago. Haven't been back to NY since. I still get cravings every week.
amazing!!!!
I used to love this cart, but after eating here 100 times or more, my opinion isn't the same. ?The chicken is way too dry, and you have to drown it in a mayo-laden white sauce to get it down the hatch. ?And the white sauce itself gives me heartburn. ?But it is cheap and plentiful. ?The lamb is too greasy, but better than the chicken. ?The hot sauce is FIRE so don't add too much on your own. ?When I am starving or just want meat/lettuce during my low-carb days, I make at one of their 3 carts in the area (usually 53rd and 7th since there's never a line since everyone thinks they HAVE to go to 6th Avenue for the Halal Guys when in fact it's the same people).
I'm from Texas and we have gimmicks of The Halal Guys. Nothing compares to this one though!! The best chicken over rice place... ever. Don't let the line scare you as it moves really fast! The service is so friendly and everyone is really nice!! I waited probably about 10-12 minutes and it was worth it. The spicy sauce is extremely spicy but sooo good! There isn't a seating area but you can definitely find a spot on the stairs outside and enjoy your meal. They give a lot of food just for $6! Don't leave the city without trying The Halal Guys. You will regret it!!!!
Awesome food. Whenever I got to NYC I always go to Halal Guys!!
First of all...simply hilarious that this has almost 4000 reviews. ?We were in NYC for 8 days...in a hotel two blocks away. ?We were amazed to see that this place always had a line...you New Yorkers do like to queue! ?I read the reviews, talked to cabbies about it...but wasn't going to try because I have this thing about waiting 30 minutes for street-cart food. On our last day, we went by and lo and behold...only one person in line...it was an off time and he was getting ready for the rush...we were hungry so we went for it. Yes, it was really good. Yes, I got to put on my own white sauce. ?Yes it was a huge portion for $6, ?but honestly, WAY over hyped and I still would not wait in line for 30 minutes for it.
$6 for a TON of chicken and rice and a fast moving line?! How much better can this get? If only they were open before 7:30pm so I could eat this for lunch :) Warning: THE SPICY SAUCE HERE WILL BURN YOUR MOUTH. DO NOT MISTAKE IT FOR THE BBQ SAUCE
Just simply 2 big thumbs up!
I wish I had a whole portion to myself instead of sharing... biggest regret of my life T_T Not too long of a wait though there is a line. SO DELICIOUS and SAVORY. I wish I could go back for more. The portions are generous; you can share between a couple of people... but I would say GET ONE FOR YOURSELF. Be greedy :) AND ONLY $6 for a combo... What are you waiting for? GO GET SOME!!!
I've been to this Halal Cart many times and every time I have enjoyed their chicken and rice. I like that they use chicken breast which gives it a healthy hint. I've had a few conversation with the Halal Guys themselves, and apparently they're Egyptian, so that was interesting to find out if you care to know what type of chicken and rice you're eating. It's a very good amount of food for $6, I usually tell them to hold off on the salad, and that way I get more food (You're welcome!). I used to love their white sauce (which enhances the meal), but lately it's been too fatty. I think they've been mixing it with mayonnaise or a very fatty cream. It didn't settle well in my tummy or my friend's tummy last time I ate it. The hot sauce used to be very hot. Now it's watered down aka toned down for those non hot sauce eaters. Just a few improvements in the sauce department. Otherwise I'm a happy camper. Overall I'll recommend this place for the experience of the long line, a pretty good chicken and rice experience in comparison to the crappy ones throughout the city, and very friendly Halal guys!
We went to NY two years ago and I still remember how good the food was, the hot sauce, the white sauce, lamb, rice, yum yum. We went this place every midnight regardless we ate dinner already. We lucky we stayed at hilton otherwise we wouldn't know this place.
I HAVE TO GO BACK HERE. I miss their halal food so much. I don't care if I have to wait 45 minutes on line again for it. It's so worth it. Last time I went to get some of this, the line literally covered an entire block. Either people have tons of free time on their hands or they just really love ?the halal food prepared here...I fall under both categories. It's surprising to see this from a halal stand since they are literally on almost every few blocks when in Manhattan. But I don't know..these guys are just...special. Like they have magic hands or something. Well whatever it is, I have to really get some halal food form these guys again. Yum.
If you want to blackout from happiness on an empty wallet, look no further! I do not recommend eating their heavy, delicious, sparsely seasoned food everyday. However, on days where one needs to be reminded the world is intrinsically good, enjoy a mixed platter here with white sauce and barbeque sauce. Add some pita bread to really get a delicious stomach cramp!
A must get no matter how long the line is. And if you're drunk, this is the perfect food for the occasion.
Love these guys!
Halal guys is AMAZING! It's probably one of the best bangs for your buck in the city. $6 will get you two meals worth of delicious food and best of all, it's open til 4 am! I highly recommend the combo and asking for white sauce on the side (I usually ask for 2 white sauces and 1 red), especially if you're not going to eat it immediately.
Excellent. I got the lamb gyro which contained a ton of meat, lots of sauce, super spicy legit hot sauce, warm pita, and lettuce. Gyro and drink was $6 which is unbelievably cheap. Basically, go here now and often.
Halalllllllllllll ! Omg beyond amazing especially if ?your a wasted mess! Its great when your sober also, but im just saying, This place sure hits the spot! Delicious food! Chicken and Steak combo is like the best thing that has ever happened to this planet ! It's full of grease, full of flavor and mouthwatering delicious! Drown your combo meal in their unique white sauce and your in heaven! Truly one of a kind! ?Ad the best part is, it won't damage your wallet like the bar did! because for a huge platter it only costs $6s ! Long line? Who the hell cares because its so worth it! Need more convincing? Ask every single person standing on that line and they will tell you the same thing! So, should you go there? My answer is ab so friggen loutly!
It's interesting how this place managed to claim notoriety for The Chicken and Rice spot in all of NY. I will attest that the food here is pretty good, especially for street vendors. However, eating here sober is quite different than eating it drunk at 3am. The quality is certainly consistent, and the ground beef/chicken over a giant bed of rice and onions accompanied by a smattering of sauces is something that many travelers are willing to wait in line for. That, of course, is the reason why this place only gets 4 stars. For the quality of the food, waiting in line for 30 minutes in the cold is just not something that a fast paced, inpatient guy like myself is willing to wait for. That being said, you should see the look of everyone who got their hands on the plate of food, it's like they've never had anything so delicious, lol. Overall...I guess if you haven't had it, you should try it out. But, in my opinion, the King of Felafel have better food. Food: 4 stars Service: 3 stars Price: 5 stars
Caveat: I was completely sober when I came here, but was also famished. Given that... it looks like I'm in the minority when I say that Halal Guys was okay, but certainly not the orgasmically fantastic street food that everyone from friends to TVs and movies have made them out to be. Having become such a iconic NYC food establishment, there's no real need to describe the chicken plate itself, but here it is anyway: shredded chicken, veggies, and pita bread, over rice, with some yogurt and spicy red sauces available on the side. Certainly not bad, but it is, at its heart, simple, average, street food. My friend said it best when she expressed a desire to suddenly eat Hainan chicken rice while digging in: it reminded us, at least, of much tastier alternatives. So, if you're here, hungry, and/or drunk, by all means! It's certainly a viable and affordable option. I would by no means go out of my way to come here though! ***Accessibility Info*** Venue - It's a cart, where everybody is on the same level as you (versus a food truck), so, this is about as accessible as street food can get. Bathroom - None available.
street meat at its best!
chicken and lamb combo, but falafels are good too
Before I even got to New York, everyone said you have to eat at the "Halal" cart. Well to my surprise there are like a million of them around the city (That's what it seemed like). But apparently, The Halal Guys are the ones that serve up "The Best" food. I am not an expert on what these dishes should taste like, but the chicken over rice is AMAZING. Pour a generous amount of that white sauce over your plate and you definitely won't regret it. I was more than satisfied and I wish they could ship some over to my house. This is street cart food done right. Don't walk by it, grab a plate or two and enjoy it!
I'm pretty sure the food here is amazing but the only times I've been here I was completely wasted. Judging by the reviews, I'd say yes! I don't know what time they open or close because I've only been here between 2-4am. The line is still long even at these obscure hours. That's the city for ya, I guess. The food is like crack, so addicting! And dat white sauce, m'mmm. You won't be sorry you came here!
The food quality has definitely gone down in the past several years. ?My chicken/ lamb was dry and the falafel was cold. And what happened to the onions they used to put in the chicken? There are a million diff Halal carts in the city so do yourself a favor and don't waste your time coming here. .
don't be intimidated by the line. these guys are quick like ninjas. the hot sauce is pretty hot but doesn't linger too long. but what a bomb digity meal for under $10. the kinda meal that you don't leave any thing behind. the sauce is so addictive. ?eat it for breakfast? yup eat it for lunch? yup eat it for dinner? yup eat it after partying? absolutely
Not exactly sure what to say here that hasn't been said. ?The quality of this cart is well worth the wait of any line... at any time of day! ?Plus the line moves rather quickly. ?Really it's the best Halal cart in New York and consequently probably the Eastern US. ?Oh and because they turnout food so quickly it is always fresh. ? The price is amazing! For $6 or $7 you get a full plate of rice and meat (Lamb/Chicken) which is surprisingly a lot of food. ?You could also get both lamb and chicken. Usually I eat this over two meals because it is so fulling. ?The lamb is so juicy and well seasoned. Even the gyros are unbelievable! The white sauce is a must have if you like white sauce, and I would recommend going easy on the hot sauce as it is very spicy (Unless of course you like that, then go for it). ?The only downside that I even could think of is that eating this can't be too healthy. ? Cash only... if that wasn't obvious
If you're from out of town, definitely save this meal for dinner or late night (intoxication is suggested, too). On to the food! 1) ask for hot sauce on the side, and use sparingly! it is so ridiculously spicy. that after kick has quite the punch! 2) the chicken is so moist and well seasoned! i love it :) 3) i usually don't eat pita with my chicken & rice dish, but this was a nice surprise, AND it was actually really tasty! 4) that white sauce, though. SO. DYNAMITE. DO NOT LET ANYTHING PREVENT YOU FROM TRYING HALAL GUYS!
Pretty good! Lamb and chicken combo! It was good, but a little too much for me. I enjoyed the other halal carts better and went with a plain gyro.
Having lived in NYC the past 8 years i can honestly say that 53rd and 6th is one of the top 2 halal carts in the city, the other being the Jackson Heights halal cart and its infamous green sauce. I have come to 53rd and 6th over the course of the many years and in many different states. Sober, tipsy, drunk, near vomiting drunk and high. Every time the food has hit the spot. It might be the orange rice or the heaps of chicken and lamb or the oceans of white/bbq but it always tastes so damn good. I usually get the combo platter which is lamb and chicken but just lamb and chicken platters along with gyros are offered as well. Chicken or lamb used to be $5 but now everything is $6 which goes to show even the Halal Guys aren't recession-proof. A few other notes to point out. There are multiple identical carts on the intersection of 53rd and 6th ave and to my knowledge they all serve the same food but I'm superstitious so I always go to the cart in front of the weird green statue thing. Also, the hot sauce is VERY VERY hot. Many of my tough guy friends have said that they can handle the hot sauce here but every time they pour too much and render the whole thing inedible. Your best bet would be to put a little on first and adjust accordingly. Overall, the line may be long but your taste buds will thank you for it.
Best Gyro and Chicken for 6 bucks! It was so good that I had it twice in one day!
Awesome cheap food. Long line!
Very mediocre food. I found many other halal carts have tastier food than this one. The reason people rave about this place may be the cheap price and they open till late night. Very prompt service though. The line looks very long but it actually moves very fast. Warning: the hot sause is REALLY HOT, taste a little bit before you put it all over your rice.
My friend took me here one summer night yearsss ago. At first I was like hell naw i'm not eating from a food stand once he told me.... but thenn I saw the line!! I was like o.k i've never seen a line this long for a food stand so I decided to try it. Not only was the food great and inexpensive, they give u a huge amount. The last time i went I beleive it was about $6 for the meat, veggies and rice.
Took me a while to write this review but I finally got around to it. This place rocks! My fianc?e and I were in town from Los Angeles for 10 days. We ate at 15 different places with our average bill coming to roughly $50 /meal (from $10 sandwiches to $150 tabs at Buddakan). This place was the BEST meal of our ENTIRE trip. We went back twice since we only discovered it 2 days before leaving - wish we found it sooner! We still talk about going back to NYC and running directly to this cart. BE SURE TO GET EXTRA WHITE SAUCE! YUMMY!
Ordered the combo (lamb and chicken) over rice. I tasted it before adding any of the sauces and was disappointed to find it surprisingly bland. However the flavor improved dramatically after adding them in. FYI the hot sauce is no joke, so if you wither at the slightest hint of heat, use it sparingly or not at all. This isn't my first time eating lamb/chicken over rice. So I wasn't blown away by it like other people were. But I do appreciate that the food was cooked well. None of it was dry or overcooked, which I've seen done at other places. It's good if you're conveniently in the area but not pilgrimage worthy.
According to my friends who are more familiar with NY than I am, this was a place that I HAD to check out during my stay here. I love Mediterranean food, so it didn't take much convincing. The only thing that was kind of keeping me away was the 100 degree July weather that made a normal 6 block walk seem like a walk through the Sahara. Fortunately for me, this did not deter me as I remained steadfast in my quest to try the best NY has to offer. One word of advice, there are several similar looking carts on this corner, so if you want the Halal Guys make sure it clearly says it as the lookalikes also have red and yellow branding. The easiest way to tell is to see which one has the long line. While I didn't get the opportunity to try the others, from what I've been told Halal Guys is the best. Anyways, for $6 you get a heaping serving of food... probably good enough to feed 2 peeps to be honest. I ordered the combo rice plate which had an orange rice topped with chopped chicken, chopped gyro, pita slices, and lettuce. They have BBQ, a spicy red sauce, and a white sauce that you can top with to your heart's content. Beware, the red sauce is really spicy. You have to have a high tolerance for heat and spice to enjoy it. What makes it so good? Well it's a nice and hearty meal. You can't even see the rice, it's topped with so much meat. The chicken and gyro are seasoned well, and it's even better when you get some pieces with nice crisp caramelization on them. The sauces really bring everything together and add that extra punch. The white sauce is like a tangy yogurt sauce while their BBQ sauce is just your standard sweet BBQ sauce. I couldn't really detect the flavors in the red sauce as it was so spicy. It was really more for heat than flavor if you ask me. If you get the white and BBQ sauce, the combination of the 2 create a nice contrast... creamy and tangy against sweet and peppery. I'd recommend it, although I must say it makes it taste a little less ethnic. Once you take that first bite, you'll find yourself heaping forkfuls again and again until you can't eat anymore. It's really an addicting dish. To anyone that hasn't been, give it a try. For such a cheap price you really don't have an excuse not to go!
I LOVE HALAL. There's something special about the white sauce. I went around dinner time and the line was really long but it moved pretty fast. I got the combo plate with rice and pita bread and it was soooooo yummy. The portion was so big but I was able to finish it. I was definitely bloated after that. Next time, I need to try their spicy sauce!!
This place is better than sex.....so I told my date when we were eating this. She frowned, then she agreed, then I frowned. But what an experience. We'll be having dates a lot more with this place than with each other. I guarantee that
mixed chicken and gyro - very good! their ranch sauce is really good too. their spicy sauce is so spicy! I like the gyro more than the chicken. but my bf likes the chicken more. so it's better to get mixed bc both are good!
Definitely a NYC signature! I don't even know where to start because the food is simply amazing! I got the original chicken and rice with a side of pita bread. Even though it wasn't stated on the menu, the guys were nice enough to throw in a few falafel balls. Load on that creamy WHITE SAUCE ?and pace yourself with the spicy red sauce. I made the mistake of adding too much red sauce and ended up with Angelina Jolie lips after I was done eating. For the price and portion, this meal was definitely a steal when you're in "The Big Apple". Yes the line tends to get ridiculously long, but it is so worth the wait. Plus, the line moves pretty fast. When you're in NYC, there are tons of Halal Carts, but make sure you try this one for that authentic NYC chicken and rice taste.
After my first experience here, I made a special late night trip uptown, in a torrential downpour for $6 of Halal Guys goodness; it's that good! This isn't a Michelin Starred restaurant, but it gets 5 stars for being the best street fare in the city.
Super delicious! The hot sauce is HOT! A must have when you come to New York (this cart specifically).
every time i come back visit NYC, i always come here. every time i always waited in line for 40 mins and i still waited. i love their halal food, the spicy sauce, the flavor. i wish there was something like this in SF.
Nothing amazing but a solid meal when you are really messed up with alcohol.
Alright before we question the legitimacy of this post, I've been going to this place for years. ?The allure of it comes from the fact that they're open til all hours of the night. ?The food itself, is alright to around good. ?Over the past few years, with their popularity on the up and up, their service has fallen considerably. ?They go for volume over quality. ?Even the volume has gone down though. They skimp on the portions more than ever regardless of which cart you go to (the tourists all go to the Southwest corner of 53rd and 6th, but they actually own 4 carts all within a one block radius). ?In all honesty, the quality of Halal Food is much higher at other carts. ?They survive with mediocre to decent quality food because of their immense popularity. ?Also, they've no longer as friendly as they used to be, but after serving thousands upon thousands of New Yorkers (drunk and sober) I don't necessarily blame them. Listing the negative first, I am giving them 4 stars. ?For 6 dollars, even with them skimping on portions, you will get full most of the time. ?Their quality, although having fallen down in the past years, is still not bad and has yet to send me rushing to a bathroom later on. ?For a cheap, late night meal, they're definitely a vendor to consider. ?If you want better food for the same price and slightly smaller portions, just explore and experiment with other carts. Happy eating friends
Fantastic food. Easily one of the best in the city. There are other smaller/less popular carts that also do quite well (ex. near Broadway and 8th St.), but there's a reason this one is popular. Pros: The white sauce and red sauce are in to-go containers that you just grab yourself, so you don't have to say "OK that's good!" or "Wait that's too much hot sauce!" The falafel (which is all I ever order, since I'm vegetarian, so I can't comment on the meat quality) is always very high-quality and SOFT as hell. If hell is soft. I very much dislike other carts whose falafel tastes like rubber or requires a jackknife to tackle. Cons: Only one: long lines. Be prepared to wait a WHILE during peak hours, but if you have nothing else going on, it's worth it.
Cheap. Filling. Tasty. Be wary of their hot sauce. When they say "Caution: Very Hot", they freakin' mean it. They don't mean "white-people" hot. They mean hot as in "thermonuclear-explosion-in-your-ass-the-?following-morning-diarrhea" hot.
After reading the glowing reviews of The Halal Guys, I just had to try it on my latest trip to New York. First off the hot sauce it incredibly hot... I love spicy food and usually when people say something is hot I end up trying it and saying, meh this isn't very hot. That is not the case with this sauce! Definitely mix it with the white sauce to temper the heat a bit. The food is pretty good, although the rice is nothing special. I think the main draw here is the amount of food you get for $6. It is enough for 2-3 people quite easily.
Ok, so I'll decide to give my opinion on this food. I bought food from here. It was the chicken and gyro mixed with pita bread, rice and romaine lettuce. Then I asked the man to add the Tzatziki sauce, hot sauce and barbecue sauce to it. Now, I've heard numerous reviews about this food cart. People raved about it and told me to try it. The food is mediocre at best. My mother is a chef, so I'm aware of what well seasoned food should taste like. The rice had absolutely no flavor. It looked like Jasmine or Basmati rice cooked in Goya's sazon seasoning. I tasted it without the meat and the sauce. There was absolutely no flavor. The rice was too orange looking. There was barely any salt. Some chicken base should have been added to it. Next, the meat. The gyro was tastier than the chicken. It's not breast meat chicken and the beef was lamb gyro. They were okay. They didn't have any seasoning at all. You see, a lot of people forget that the sauces mask the flavors of the meat. The pita bread tasted good with the white and barbecue sauce. The pita bread and the romaine lettuce were my favorite parts of this lunch. Finally, the sauces. ?The Tzatziki sauce was good. The hot sauce was too spicy and tasted similar to Tabasco sauce mixed with a bit of spices. The barbecue sauce was my favorite. The food (excluding the sauce) had an iota of seasoning and herbs. I might be seen as an anomaly, oh well. Overall, I'd rate this crap a 1 out of 5, but the pita bread and romaine lettuce saved you. I don't get the hype and I regret wasting $6 on this garbage. I threw the rest of it away. I would not frequent this place. I actually prefer the Korean Yogi food carts than the Halal Guys. I think people are followers who are unable to think for themselves. I wonder if any of the people rating this a 5 out of 5 are able to cook. When certain businesses become popular and commercialized, the quality of the food goes down. The Halal Guys are making tons of money by selling to people who don't know good food. This sh*t is overrated. ?My stomach started hurting after I ate a third of the food. I just didn't like it and I'll never buy from them again. I think it's unsanitary to serve food while handling cash. Sorry HG, you just didn't do it for me.
Ordered the lamb gyro for lunch. Most horrible gyro ever. The lamb soaked in oil was sitting there for god knows how many days. Do not go here for lunch, it maybe good after 4am on a weekend night after you are out of the night club.
Incredible value mixed with great taste. Not the best I've ever had, but definitely the best for the price.
Best friggin' food I've ever had in my life. I would go there everyday if I could. The last time I had it, I waited on the long line in the middle of the afternoon, and a protest against monsantos or whatever those things are was going down 6th Ave. I love waiting on that line only because it makes me want a mixed platter so much more. If you haven't gone to the cart, go right now.
Guys, I have finally found it. I have found the one. After years of heavy drinking and almost interventions by friends, I have finally found the ultimate drunk food haven. First, it's recognized in most parts of the world (aka the US aka NYC). You can literally get in a cab, drunkenly slur the words Halal Guys and get taken to your delicious, delicious destination in minutes (or much longer cause it's NY). Second, it's a crap ton of food. What does the human body need more than anything else after a heavy night of drinking? That's right, insane amounts of food to soak up the insane amount of liquor. Third, it's delicious. You can smell this place from like 3 blocks away, and the food will make you say OMGHMMMMMSOGOOD Only issue I have with this place is their red sauce that burns like the rays of a thousand suns. There really should be a warning sign or something that says "DON'T POUR ALL OF THE RED SAUCE OVER YOUR FOOD CAUSE IT'S REALLY REALLY HOT". My drunken self would have greatly appreciated this. But anyways, this place is the absolute bomb. CAN I GET A HALAL?!
Halal was the reason I went to Ny. Haha Jk. Kinda. But in my 5 nights in NY I had halal plates 4 of those nights haha. That's how much I love it! This was my first time trying the halal guys truck, kept heading it was better than all the other halal trucks. I think I enjoyed the halal plate at another truck in Brooklyn more, BUT that doesn't mean the halal here still wasn't just as amazing! We went to the cart with no line (never got to see the one that has a longer line but I hear its pretty busy there). No line no wait and the dudes were sooo nice they even remembered us when we came back two nights later haha. We ordered a bunch of halal plates to go to take back to Cali and they hooked it up with hella sauce. Yummmm. Take it easy on the red sauce though, you don't need much of it at all and it's already super spicy!!!
I know this goes against what most people think, but I think that this place is kind of run of the mill. The food is delicious, I'm not going to disagree with that. I love getting the combination platter, and drowning it in white sauce. Who doesn't like that? However, the people who run the carts are not the friendliest of people and getting extra white sauce when you're taking your dish to go, it is always a struggle. Also the line is always really long, especially if you're there to get your drunk fix. And I feel like other halal carts in the area offer goods that are just as good and for the same or lower prices. All in all, if you're in the area, I would definitely stop by, but I wouldn't recommend making a special trip out just for this halal.
Great food for when u need that meal to full u up. My girlfriend took me here when we go into the city. I'm never disappoint here the food is awesome and hit the spot . A must do if u even a little short on cash .
Love! Nothing beats the a$$-kicking spicy red sauce and the yummy cooling white sauce on top a delicious minced lamb rice plate/gyro. I LOVE ThIS CART!
This is my midnight go to place after stumbling around the city drunk out of mind. It is the place to go when you are stoned out of your mind. It is the place to go when you are sober and tired and need a delicious hot mess. If you need high class society and other wastes of money then this is not the place for you. If you are one of those who enjoy the kind of thing that people tastes great then this is the place for you.
This review is probably long overdue for the number of times that I have been to NY and always crave The Halal Guys. Many have said that you can get halal food anywhere around NY, but this is just not true - you haven't had halal food until you have had The Halal Guys. For some reason, no matter how tired we are, we will always take a cab to this famous corner to battle the line to get a combo (half chicken/half lamb) rice bowl with extra white and red sauce (be careful of that red sauce - it is SPICY). Now be aware that there are 2 carts for The Halal Guys. There is always a line on one corner and that is where they started, but the cart across the street, with no line, is just as good and you don't have to wait. Just look for the same cart and the guys with the same shirts across the street. Take a picture of the line across the street while you are already enjoying some of the best late night food you can ever have. Can't wait till my next trip to NY to visit the guys at The Halal Cart.
Delicious. The best place ever.
If you are anywhere remotely near this food cart come here. If you are in New York City come here. Seriously. Go out of your way to pay these guys a visit because they are amazing. The line will be a little long but it will be worth your time. Their meat is flavorful and the rice fluffy and perfectly cooked. The sauces are like no other. Their red sauce will burn your mouth in the best way possible and the white sauce helps cool everything down. For how much they charge, it's great value. You will be full when you leave, for sure. Come here when you're drunk. And sober too.
My partner and I visited NYC for a week in June. We loved the Halal Guys so much that we actually enjoyed their food twice. That's a big deal for a foodie like me who wanted to try as many good NYC joints as possible. I just couldn't stay away from this place! The food is divine. It really is the best street food I've had. The meat is killer, the sauce great, and portions generous. It's worth the wait in line. We even came here around midnight and there was a line of about 10 people, and there were probably 40 others on the corner sitting around eating the food. I knew it was good then. There are a lot of impostors around, so make sure you are visiting the right cart. Read the signs and shirts. If we ever go back to NYC, I will for sure be visiting The Halal Guys again!
Great kebabs! ?Must try off peak hours, this place gets busy.....
Alright so this is not my first time to eat Chicken and Rice. I have had it multiple times after I stumbled upon it while staying at the Hilton for a conference which is right across the street. I remember stepping outside and seeing this huge line so naturally being the curious type that I am, I went over and asked someone in line what the wait is for and they said it was the Chicken and Rice stand. Now I had heard about my friend's drunken adventures to get this magical heavenly food many times but had never been so I of course got a mixed plate. So this is the background but I will keep this review concise. Anytime I am in the city, I try to go to this place. There is no where that you can get so much food for just $6. The food is great and make sure to mix in the hot sauce, the white sauce, and the bbq sauce if you are into the sweet thing. I personally like all of the sauces and this is true comfort food for me. One thing to note is that the chicken can sometimes be dry as its dependent on how long it's been sitting out there but the food is still definitely worth eating for sure. It is of course amazing after a few adult beverages have been consumed and you find yourself wandering the streets at 2 AM. ?This place is an icon now in the city and everyone must try. I flew from SF to NYC today and when my driver dropped me off at the hotel, I checked in and literally went outside and walked 5 blocks in NINETEEN degrees weather to get this heavenly food. Oh everyone also mentions it but I will also. The spicy sauce is definitely spicy so don't eat too much of it if you do not like spicy foods! and yes the line is just that long. but people should realize that they have a few other carts also so don't feel you need to wait in the long line for just this one!
I've heard so much hype about this place that I was so excited to try it during my recent NYC trip. ?My sister wound up getting my food so I missed out on the experience of standing in line and ordering but I got my food and that's all that matters! The hot sauce is super spicy; so spicy that I couldn't taste the remainder of the food after it fully hit me but extra heaping of the yogurt sauce made it tolerable. ? This was truly magical and such amazing comfort food! ?For $6, I got a HUGE portion of rice, chicken, lettuce, and pita bread. ?I wound up splitting this into 2 meals. I would definitely make an effort to visit NYC just for this delicious chicken and rice!
Which one? They're all delicious
Perfecto!! A fast food $6 meal that isn't doused in grease and overwhelming flavors!?!!? Absolutely LOVED it. I ordered the chicken over rice and the portion was HUGE. The chicken was perfectly cooked and tender. The pita was amazing and soft and the rice was cooked to perfection. Even the lettuce was fresh and the ranch dressing they provided was a watered down version which made it a nice and light topping that complimented the entire dish. I started telling my roommate how tasty the chicken was and drool literally fell out of my mouth. We laughed but this dish is a serious deal. Droolicious. Hands down 5 stars. Yum.
Best food and makes you all the New York nutrition you need
This place never fails, always hits the spot!
Whenever I'm remotely near the area I try to find an excuse to swing by one of the Halal Guy carts (they have carts on both sides of the street). The line is always shorter on the east side of the street so I'm usually at that one. For 6bucks you get an ungodly amount of food! If you ever go to any other halal food cart they usually give you a small rectangle styrofoam box with a little rice and a little meat, about half what these guys give you!.....Here, its 3 heaping scoops of rice, pile high the meat, and then throw on a handful of pita bread! You know its alot of food when the container is big and round and the size of your face and the guy still has to smash everything down a little to get the cover on. Plus that thing is HEAVY in your hands. And now the sauces, Yes the white sauce is crack...it's heroin in a bottle, I tell you, The meat is nice and lean so it soaks up the sauces wonderfully. But for me (a girl that LOVES spice) I'm all for the red sauce. Yes it's lava, pure lava, but I don't care! I'll gladly endure the weird oogling, "you must be crazy" looks from other patrons as I slather it all over my food. Don't look at me in shock, and don't you dare give me the pitying "oh she must be new, a tourist and not know how hot it is" look...I know and I love it! Now go away and grow a pair! LOL I want to feel the burn and dance in it. I always ask for extra little 'hot sauce' ?containers on the side with my food when they pack it, but then use their big squirt bottles to pour sauce on it instead. This way I have 3-4 little containers I can bring home. People, if they sold this sauce I'd buy it in bulk. I marinade meat in it, ?put it in my pasta, add it to my sauces etc.... I don't eat here often (it's a lot of food and if I ate here everyday I"d be a whale) but when I do it's always a treat. Go, get in line, and prepare yourself for a little tub of heaven :)
i have been a regular customer since i work at the building on the block but something is off these days the gyro is not as tasty, i thought it was a onetime shoot but went back and the same experience maybe cost cutting has my friends go to a cheap supplier - what ever the reason the experience is NOT the same i want my gyro back
I love, and I mean ABSOLUTELY LOVE this place. I always come here whenever I'm in the city; I just can't resist. The long does get a bit long at times, but you never wait for too long. And it's also open really late at night, so it makes for perfect drunk food! Their food is amazing for cart food. I usually get the chicken & rice platter; it's my go-to dish. I've had the lamb, it's pretty good, but you really can't beat the chicken. I'm a fan of the falafel one too. Can't argue with the price for the amount of food they give you (and the taste too). It's only $6 per platter and it fills you up pretty good. But the best thing about this cart is their white sauce and hot sauce. I don't know what they put in the white sauce, but goddamn that's some good stuff! Hot sauce is really hot, by the way, so have a little bit first before you start pouring it all over your platter. NOTE: They started selling bottles of their sauces! If you like them that much, you can ask for it. Not sure about the prices though.
Best frickin' halal in NYC!
This is my favorite place to eat when I'm visiting NYC. I'm from LA so there's really nothing that I can get in NY that I can't get in LA... EXCEPT this... I love this place, and I especially love the white and red sauce. But be careful because the red sauce is REALLY hot! It's a great spot to hit up for lunch, dinner and the late night dinner... especially after drinking ^_^ Every time I go to NYC, I stay at the Hilton, just so I can be close to this place.
LOVE LOVE LOVE. I must get out of my pj's, grab the train and get on that line, when I'm craving stand food /halal chicken/ gyro plate! The chicken and lamb combo with rice, bread and salad at $6! wohhaa. Love the taste, Love the food. If you really concentrate on your plate, you come to realize its the sause's that compliment the meat and the rice and bring out that extravagant flavor. Note: They are very cheap over their white sauce and hot sause. They drop 1 of each per bag- If your like me and your love ur food full of flavor and a POW in your mouth and even if u ask for more. Here you go ONLY 1 MORE.
I kept hearing about this particular street cart, and I finally got to try it for myself. I guess the fact that this is the only cart in the city with a line this long, is a dead giveaway that it's good. Don't be scared off by the line though, they're very fast. We waited for 10 minutes and it was totally worth it. I would wait much longer for the deliciousness that awaits me there. My husband and I ordered the combo plate and shared it. It has Lamb and Chicken, served over rice and lettuce. They cover it with a delicious yogurt sauce and serve it with this great pita bread. Yum... They have more sauces on the side of the cart that you can help yourself to as well. Their hot sauce is pretty spicy, but oh so delicious. I was very impressed by the serving size and the freshness of the food here. It makes sense, since they're super busy. The lamb was so flavorful! The chicken is good as well, but the lamb had so much flavor, I liked it better. I want some right now. Seriously...
It''s ok and especially if you have the late night munchies but seriously that line (20-30 people in front of you around 1am)...there are other places that are nearly as good. ? It used to be better. ?There are two halal carts on each side of the 6th ave (ave of the americas). ?Make sure to go to the one on the west side. ?It strangely tastes better. ?You should meditate in line about how good it will be or if you have never had the halal cart experience then go for it. ?But I think there is one on Madison and 20 something street that you should check out because that's where all the local taxi drivers go and it's pretty good. ? If you're reading this, you're probably a tourist so walk around after 9 pm in that area and enjoy the exploration.
I tried the chicken over rice, the chicken looked "shredded" & it was so dry and guess what, I got sick the next day.
53rd & 6th, southwest corner, between 4pm and 4am I believe the times are. Best street meat that I've ever had. Its delicious sober, drunk or anything in between. Get the chicken (or lamb or moved) over rice and add some of that yogurt sauce. BEWARE: The hot sauce is hot. I don't mean oh I can handle this hot, you should be worried about how hot this is.
Chicken or Falafel over rice. EXTRA white sauce and hot sauce. That is all.
Fast, cheap ($6 or 7), delicious. Could you really want more? I got the chicken and rice classic with white sauce. They drown it in sauce, so watch how much you want. Ask for the hot sauce on the side since it is really very hot. One order is enough to share between two people. Line may look intimidating but they're super efficient.
Practically every time I have been to NYC we have stayed at the Hilton on 6th Ave and 53rd St. ?And EVERY TIME I have passed up the Halal Guys. ?WHY???? THEIR FOOD IS SO GOOD!!! And cheap! -Mix (Chicken & Gyro) over Rice (comes with pita, salad, yogurt and hot sauce): DELICIOUS! ?The shaved chicken is nicely spiced and tender, the gyro is bursting with spicy flavor, the yogurt sauce (they give you two tubs!) creates a nice sweet contrast. ?The pita is perfectly fluffy and cooked. ?The rice is a bit bland but it's mostly just there for texture anyways. ?The salad is fresh. ?The guys are nice. FINAL VERDICT: This could easily become a weekly meal for me. ?It's extremely filling, fresh and absolutely delicious.
best drunk meal
White sauce, period. Tip: squirt only 3 dots of hot sauce if you don't want to rip out your tongue If you're a tourist, there is no way you can leave NYC without stopping by, that is a fact. So please get your butt on that line.
Delicious! I got the chicken sandwich, as any of the plates with rice seemed ginormous. Turned out the sandwich is quite large, too, but I'm not complaining :-) I made the mistake of asking for the hot sauce. I love hot and spicy food, but this hot sauce was SUPER spicy--the kind that almost stings your nose. But it didn't ruin my meal. I love that they give you a LOT of chicken, and the chicken is very flavorful, and also very moist. Will be coming back to try their falafels :D
"Meh" is particularly the word I'd use to describe this. My reaction was, I waited in line for 30 minutes for THIS?! The chicken was dry. The white sauce was kind of boring (guys, it's just mayonnaise!), the rice wasn't anything special. The hot sauce was decent, but nothing to write home about. I'll probably only write home to say, "Mom & Dad, it's not worth the wait." I've had better. The good thing was that it was cheap. But I walked away feeling the need to throw up.
I waited on line 15 minutes today for my first taste of "Chicken and Rice". ?Before I got served though, the stand had to close for security reasons because of nearby activity of presidents Obama and Clinton. A bit unearned, but I'll give them 5 stars based on the aroma of what was on the grill. It smelled awesome. ? Have to go back for a real taste, though. If you see Barak or Bill, tell them they owe me a gyro. ?Thanks.
Just amazing food!! I usually go with lamb and rice with the crack sauce and extra hot sauce. No matter whether I'm eating at 5 star restaurants, I always eat here when I'm in the city.
really freaking good food cart. I have become vegetarian in the last year and the only time the idea or smell of chicken ever is appealing anymore is this cart. crazy long lines at lunch time, but SO worth it.
Believe the hype!! Also, be aware there are TWO halal carts at this location! ?A long line forms in front of the Starbucks but there is another across the street under the construction overhang. ?We got there around 9:30pm and only had two people in front of us. ? We ordered the chicken and lamb gyro mix. ?They provide two cups of their infamous white sauce and a cup of their unbelievably hot sauce. ?And they have bottles of white sauce on the side in case you want more. Everyone raaaves about the white sauce and I'm a bandwagoner -- just dump that sh*t on! ?Yes it's THAT good!!! And for $6 per plate only?! By the time we were done eating, the line had expanded to about 15 people. ?I will sooo miss these carts upon leaving NYC. You KNOW it's good when as soon as you post a pic of the Halal Guys, everyone back home in Cali asks you to bring some back to them!!!
The food was what it was. It was as good as it gets. These were just a bunch of stands. I wasn't expecting the greatest part of of the city but I got what i paid for. It is nice to try out once in a while but it probably isn't to healthy.
This is the original. Only go to this one. Just follow the long lines!! The rice is yummy and the lamb meat is fluffy. My friends that don't usually like lamb loves this plate. Make sure to get a lot of white sauce and beware of the red sauce. The wait is worth it. I can't wait to go back for more!!
I love these guys!!! Good portion and good eats
their food is amazing!! the combo is truly the best.
For the price and amount of food you get, this place is so worth it in NYC! Line is ok if you get to their cart early. The rice remines me of stressed carrots. Haha but with the chicken and lamb and the flat bread so good! Remember to ask for extra white sauce. It makes the dish even tastier. (:
This is such a staple to the New York street food scene and is definitely worth at least one try. If you're near by, it's a cheap, filling, tasty thing to get. Look at all the lines and you will know that this one is the best one to get your chicken and rice fix. I usually hit up Chicken & Rice for a mixed platter (lamb and chicken) after a night out on the town... I am not one for spicy, so just white sauce for me! When I'm fatigued and hungered after shopping and I need a quick bite before heading home... I've been heading over to the carts to get some of this amazing food. It's hard to find something good, cheap and quick in this Rockefeller Center area. Jon and I also take our out of town friends/ family visiting so they can try the famous "Chicken and Rice". Just remember that this is cash only and be prepared to wait on line.
I have to have these guys at least once a month! I think they know me by now. Have to admit this is the best street food in all of NYC. They are also very generous when it comes to quantity. Sometimes I can't even finish it. 5 star for great customer service and great food. Get extra white sauce people
How does one say no to Halal? ?When you've gone out drinking and have halal it's like the gods have descended upon you a good plate of yumminess. When you have it for lunch with no alcohol in you it's still pretty damn good. Only bad side? The wait sometimes is just too intense. ?But, as someone who lives in the area we know all the carts with the little yellow sign is the same halal guy :)
This place is legit. ?Worth the wait. ?I prefer the gyro platter. ?Make sure you drown it in the white sauce. ?The hot sauce will set your world on fire so be careful.
Often times, when a place is overly hyped to me, I end up enjoying it less because my expectations were set way too high. This is one of those rare times when the food ends up being just as great as I thought it would be, which makes me depressed that I can't eat this more often as a Maryland resident. Much of the fun in the Halal Guys experience is waiting in line, so don't be put off if you see a large crowd formed in front of you. Be patient, it's well worth the wait. Besides, it moves extremely quickly and you'll be taking in the sights and scents of delicious, steaming chicken, lamb, and rice in no time. The platters here are CHEAP and will leave you feeling stuffed -- only $6! Tip: drinks are sold at a separate cart near the same corner, look for the neon lights. You have an option between chicken, or mixed (both meats). The portion is comparable to 1.5 Chipotle burrito bowls... roughly, but with WAY more meat and a few pieces of pita. Definitely add some generous squirts of the yogurt sauce ("white sauce"), and if you're feeling adventurous, add some of the red hot sauce too... it has a great kick to it, but make sure to have water ready (and I consider myself to be pretty tolerant of spicy food). There's also BBQ sauce available. Talk is cheap, but Halal Guys lives up to all its hype -- not to be missed if you are in the city, and even worth going out of your way for it too!
As good as this food was going down, it was not awesome an hour later. I think it is important to remember that this is "street meat", and you can not base your experience on the aftermath. The Halal Guys are actually awesome. ?I got the lamb and rice with extra white sauce no hot sauce. ?They give you huge portions and have cute matching outfits. I see a lot on here about bad attitudes, but I have not experienced that with them. ? If you are standing in an awful spot for them because you are trying to eat your food, then they might say something. ?Remember they are extremely busy making food for everyone and their moms all day so it is OK for them to be cranky. There is usually a huge line for these guys, so try to not go during food "rush hour." ?With this said, I have never had to wait more than 15 minutes for my food. ? There is limited space to eat around the truck so plan on a place to bring it ahead of time. ?Most importantly, enjoy your street meat!
A definite must eat when you're in the city, late at night. Be careful that you don't get swindled by one of the nearby carts trying to pose as the Famous Halal Guys. Get the chicken, lamb, AND rice. Don't forget your white sauce either. Be weary of the hot sauce, it seriously is one of the spiciest condiments I've come to taste in my life.
Halal halal GOOOOD! Their hot sauce makes me wanna run around like a chicken with its head cut off.. but the food is so good that I won't be able to put my fork down. Note to self, take it easy on the hot sauce. Second note to self, should have brought some home to go when I went back to Cali :( SOOO GOOOD. We ate here twice during our stay in NY. It was one of the "must try" on my list and it was definitely worth trying. There's a lot of "halal trucks" around in the area so make sure you go to the one where the people are wearing YELLOW SHIRTS -- they have multiple stands, but they're all wearing these shirts... We got the chicken and rice and my bf and I couldn't even finish ONE PORTION. It's pretty big so you really get the most bang for your buck. Which is good cuz I can't say the same about everything else in NY.. TRY IT!
I recommend their lamb! If you are a lamb lover, then you definitely need to try it!! Btw, If you like to eat something hot, then go try their HOT sauce! THAT IS REALLY HOT!!!!!!
Came back a year later and it's just as good as I remember! It was drizzling out, but there was still a decent line, though it moved really fast thanks to the efficiency of the cooks. I got the mixed plate this time and the gyro meat is even better than the chicken! The gyro is greasier than the chicken though, so I enjoyed having the combo of meats to prevent the whole plate from becoming an oil slick. Definitely worth finding the specific street corner, and don't forget the white sauce!
Besides the long times and knowing you have just consumed 2000 calories, every bite is delicious. One of the top carts in NYC.
We've been here a few times and always loved the food here. Great hot sauce!
I keep telling myself that their chicken rice and the white sauce is gonna kill my diet, but I can't help it! Its okay to eat first and worry about it later!
I like to think of this place as the InNOut of New York. Not that the food is even remotely similar in taste. Both InNOut and this food cart have a bit of a cultish following among the locals.Just as many Californians claim that InNOut burgers are the best burgers they've ever tasted, many New Yorkers claim that Chicken and Rice is one of the best food experiences in New York. While I appreciate both of these places, I don't think that either of these statements hold a modicum of truth. I also believe that if anything, the hype and reputation of both of these places only damages the experience, as neither InNOut nor the Halal cart could ever live up to the ridiculous hype placed on their shoulders. That aside, I have to give credit where it's due- in terms of taste and quantity, it doesn't get better than Chicken and Rice in NY. This is especially true since all food in NY is 1.5X the price of LA and 2X the price of anywhere else in the U.S. You'd be lucky to find a box of cereal cheaper than the $6 chicken and rice you can get in New York, and the portions are big enough that one of them can feed two normal sized people. Still, like I said, don't expect Michelin star quality cuisine here. It's just chicken and rice.
best halal in NY for years. the only street meat i would consider eating. pay extra to skip line
This place is amazing. ?The food is cheap, tasty and filling. ?I've even been to this place twice in one day. ?Its as good as it gets for street food. ?It will not make you sick either. ?The line is insane at all times of the day so grab a friend and be prepared to stand in line. ?Its not as long as it seems. ? Tip - Their white sauce is great to add. ?Their red sauce is hot hot hot.
Being a So Cal kid, I was CRAVING my tacos and burritos after a late night partying at Pacha. As my NY friends were dragging me to the nearest food joint, I saw carts upon carts plotted on the corners of every street. I was confused to why we weren't just stopping by the nearest cart since it seemed like every cart was selling the EXACT same food but my friends were convincing me that THIS cart on 53rd & 6th was the original and best cart. As we approached 53rd & 6th, I saw a line that literally wrapped around the corner. I was shocked by the amount of people waiting for this cart as opposed to the other carts. On top of that, the majority of people were as inebriated as I was so if they have the patience to wait for this edible delight, I was too. In addition, my friends convinced me that if I don't try this cart then my NY experience wouldn't be complete. So despite my drunken hunger pangs, I waited! After what seemed like FOREVER, it was our turn to order and we all got half chicken/lamb combination. To my surprise, it was only 6$ WHAT?! 6$ for a huge plate of food full of meat and rice?! IN NY?! NO WAY. Anyways as I received my order, I saw a sign that said "WARNING, RED SAUCE is HOT". Being a naiive person and assuming that sign was probably for those that had a weaker tolerance to spicy food, I drenched my food with it and the white sauce. Yeah, yeah, that was a COMPLETE failure. I LOVE spicy food and I can take my share of it but this red sauce should literally come with some kind of legal waiver form. THAT SAUCE IS RIDICULOUSLY spicy so heed the other yelper's advice. Drench in white sauce and sprinkle on the red. And ENJOY! I can definitely see why some NY prefer the halal carts over the tacos/burritos of So Cal, the food was definitely one of the best and memorable treats of NY :)
This is as good as street meat gets. My go-to is the chicken over rice with white sauce and hot sauce. Easy on the hot sauce though. You don't want to spend the next 12 hours on the toilet, do you? Here's a secret for you though: instead of waiting on the insane line on 53rd and 6th, walk a block south to 52nd and 6th or a block west to 53rd and 7th and get the exact same thing without the wait.
Famous for a reason. So many late nights would have gone with mediocre food without these guys.
How can i say that this wasnt one of the best places i had a meal. ?after midnight in the weekend-- this becomes an experience. ?The lines are long and you meet people from all over the tristate area that have come to this place for the sole purpose of trying the best Halal (Chicken and Rice) in the city. The service is less than expected but the quality of the food is great
I don't understand what they do to make it so good! Having had my fair share of Halal food, I can't say I've tasted anything better than this. There is always a line and for good reason. It's good for lunch, dinner or late night. The chicken is so much better than the lamb! Don't doubt Halal if you've never tried it. Make your way to 53rd and 6th. Watch out for those hungry pigeons though. No, seriously, they're aggressive.
This place is something else. ?I love this place so much that i went and ate there without being hungry. ?The chicken and rice with the sauce is always good. ?I just cannot get over how these guys put out such quality.
OK, what the hell? I knew this place was going to be good, obviously from all the suggestions from my NY friends and yelp reviews, but I honestly thought the Halal cart was just a good place after a drunken night. No.. this place wasn't good, it was addictingly good. I kept explaining to my BF what halal was bc he's never had it and he was actually a little apprehensive about trying the cart. ?When we arrived on a cold night, thankfully we came a little bit on the earlier side (around 11pm) and there wasn't a line. ?We ordered the mix rice...holy crap it should be illegal to sell this stuff on a corner of the street. We DEMOLISHED that plate. ?Our mistake was ordering only one for 2 people. ?I had to go back in line to get another. Every bite was so effing good. ?I really wish we had a halal cart in LA. Everything was so good together. ?The rice, lettuce, meat..and the sauce!!! Mix it up with some red sauce and white..UGH SO GOOD! We literally just had dinner not too long before we came to the Halal cart, and surprisingly enough all of a sudden I had room to eat a whole plate and then some. LOL it's just too good. ?Seriously a must eat in NY! Can't wait to go back!!
* Jumping on the cart * OK, I'll have to jump onto the bandwagon. ?Oh wait, the Halal cart. ?Yes, this is a step above the other hundred or so halal carts scattered around the city. ? It was a long line at lunch, filled with suits, but it moved really quickly - about a total of 2 minutes to get to the front and get served. ? I ordered the lamb plate, which comes with rice, salad, and pita. ?It is served in a large metal take-out container and was a huge meal for a very reasonable $6. ?It doesn't look pretty at all (photo: yelp.ca/biz_photos/53rd-?), but everything was well prepared. ?The lamb (served in a gyro style) was tender, well seasoned, nicely caramelized on the edges and juicy. The rice was surprisingly good considering this is coming from a food cart - it was actually cooked perfectly. ?The pita and salad were fairly standard. The yogurt sauce added a nice creaminess and complimented the meat and salad particularly well. The red sauce is very spicy, and upped the overall flavour of the dish perfectly. ? A great quick inexpensive and delicious lunch - I'm jumping on with the other 3800+ yelpers on this spot!
White sauce. White sauce. White sauce. $6 for a lamb + chicken combo -- Best deal ever. Open late. Generous portions. INSANELY GOOD. Cue withdrawals.
O.M.G. THAT WHITE SAUCE IS MADE OF MAGIC. So bomb. Especially at 2AM when you are wandering the streets of NYC with a group of friends. That chicken/lamb combo drizzled in white sauce REALLY hit the spot. Five Stars for that succulent gyro meat and white sauce!!!
Not worth it at all. I think this product at one point in time was really good, but nowadays it's really just bad. Simply bad. The chicken has no flavor, the rice is just plain, sort of like white rice from any Chinese place. They just squirt a ton of white sauce to give it some flavor. This place might have been good, I think there's a good chance the owner sold the business, or retired, and I wouldn't blame him either way for doing so since he probably became a millionaire off this racket, but I do blame him for not following up on the quality.
So yea, this is the famous Halal stand everyone raves about. ?Normally I'm not into this type of cuisine at all, but due to the overwhelming reviews, I figured I had to try it since I was in town. ? We ordered the Chicken plate, and the Chicken pita sandwich. ? I don't know how they do it, but I seriously have to say this was one of the best things I've ever eaten! The white sauce is money. ?Load up on it! ? Both were incredible, but we definitely preferred the sandwich. I would gladly wait 25 minutes in line again for it. ?At $4 for the sandwich and $5 for the plate, it's a steal and they could easily charge twice that!
Since it would be my first time in New York, I didn't want to eat at the same place more than once. ?What happened? I ate at The Halal Guys three times... MENU: $6 Chicken over rice, Gyro over rice, Combo over rice $6 Falafel over rice $4 Sandwich Each time I ordered the chicken and gyro (lamb) over rice. ?The dish is amazingly delicious!! ?A generous amount of tender chicken and lamb is placed over rice with pita bread and lettuce. ?It's a large portion and unless you eat a lot, one order is good enough to split. ?Make sure to pour on tons on white sauce but use the red sauce sparingly (a dollop is good enough for most people). ?The red sauce is extremely spicy and it's a spice that lingers. WHAT TO KNOW: *CASH ONLY! *Located on 53rd Street & 6th. ?Exact location depends on the time of day and can be found on their site. *Recently opened a location in East Village *Most likely will be a long line, but it goes fast. There were about 30 people in front of us and we waited about 15 minutes. *Make sure you're at the correct cart. Authentic carts say "The Halal Guys" and the guys are wearing yellow shirts and "The Halal Guys" is written across the back.
The best street food of NYC I've had so far. Minus one star cuz its a bit salty for me, but when you are drunk you dont really care anyway. Add some of that crack sauce and you are good to go. portion is gigantic, which is good cuz you want to save some of it for breakfast the next day.. and lunch.. and dinner.. i can eat this all day!
the guys know me here, does that mean i have been here on too many occasions in the middle of the night? lol
one word to describe this "ITIS"
Great portions, food is good, def love coming here when Im in that area at night!
Sorry, overrated. It's good for when you're drunk at 5 AM in the heart of the city and want something to eat, but overall, I think you can get better halal in Jackson Heights. But for $6, you can't really complain. Warning - their hot sauce is REALLY FRIGGIN' HOT.
Fab!
$6 for all that food! Great Value. Fast Eat. Yummy Flavors. These guys have developed a conveyor belt machine, where you stand in line to order your food, drop off six dollars, then move on to their drink cart. It's very efficient and easy to find why these guys are so popular. I went for the half and half and drizzled the bbq sauce near the "salad" side and drenched the rest with their white sauce (Mayo, Vinegar, Salt. and something else I can't distinguish). It's just ... good. Only downfall is that there are no places to sit away from or avoid the harsh cold weather of a wintery night, but this isn't their fault. Overall, Just BOMB!
I'm a born a raised new yorker, stopped at countless halal trucks in my lifetime; and this is still my favorite one. 'nuff said why a star off? the foods good, but service isn't always friendly.
After a good night of drinking in the city, I always find myself standing on line for a combo platter. For $6, it is totally worth the wait and stands up to the hype. I was never into lamb meat but after trying it from this place, I was instantly hooked! The combo platter constant of chicken, lamb mixed, pita bread and a little bit of lettuce. To enrich the flavor, you MUST smother your platter with their white sauce!! *drooooling* The more the better! If you want a spicy kick to it, they do have hot sauce but be warned that their hot sauce is outrageously HOTTTTT so do give it a small taste before you pour it all over your food.
A must visit food-cart spot if you're visiting NYC and looking for fast, cheap and satisfying. Not the type of place I'd go out of my way for, but a place I'd consider if I'm in the area and the weather is nice.
Wow! Didn't expect that this will be that tasty.. Tried combo over rice (Chicken and lamb) with both white and red sauce Also took an extra white sauce... 6$ well spent.. quantity good enuf for 2 ppl.. And best thing is that there are lot of empty spaces around to sit and enjoy the food... good location to have this Expect 30-40 ppl in front of you.. but the line moves fast... be cool
just the best in the city. even there's a long line it's still worth it!
I'm not sure why so many people are crazy about this place. I just waited 30 mins in the cold for a food that I consider whatever. I got the gyro and chicken mix for $6 and it was just okay. nothing too special. Ive had better
The long lines say it all. This is the best halal food truck you will find. It's no culinary delight, but we have taken many visitors here, and each has loved it. The word has spread and it's a top must-have for townsfolk and tourists wanting to go for something plain delicious and cheap while out and about. The crew is friendly, the food (lamb gyro is better) is great and the sauces are to die for. WARNING: that red hot sauce, be very careful, it's seriously hot!
For $6, it's unbeatable! ?The chicken over rice has good flavor and the portion is huge!!! ?They are open 7 days a week, 365 days a year. ?My only complain - this place is so popular there are so many wanna-bes!!! ?I haven't try the others so maybe they taste just as good but it sure was misleading with all the food trucks with guys in yellow hoodies cooking chicken over rice around the block...
Delicious and incredibly filling, and cheap at $6 a plate. ?The line can be long but it moves fast. ?Please be careful with the hot sauce, and stay within vicinity of ?a clean, accessible bathroom within the next 12 hours after eating one of their meals.
*Pondering*: Is it worth 6 grand to haul the family up to New York for some late night lamb/chicken and rice? Thinks for a nano-second.... YES! This stuff is phenomenal! Go easy on the red sauce... even for a Texas boy like me it gets pretty intense quickly!
Picked up some food here last night because I didn't want to be out in the snow. ?The food was NOT the way I remember it. ?I got chicken and lamb over rice with both white and red sauce. ?The white sauce was disgusting and they put SO much on it. ?I thought it was a yogurt sauce, but it's actually mayo based. ?I loathe mayo. ?It was foul. ?I tried to eat around it. ?The red sauce was good, but very spicy. ?The chicken I barely touched. ?They use the driest, darkest meat they can find. ?The lamb and rice were remotely edible. ?The rice was orange which was a bit of a turnoff and seemed very heavy.
I was walking around the city and saw this street cart on the corner of over-rated and excessively hyped street. ?The chicken is minced up like they're feeding babies and it's so dry. ?That's why you need to drench it in the white sauce for it to taste okay. ?Usually carts use a yogurt based white sauce, but this one tastes like mayo, so there's a lot of fat. ? There have been a lot of reviews about this cart and the confusion of which is the real one. ?There are actually three carts as part of The Halal Guys. ?One on 53rd and 6th, one right across the street and one on 53rd and 7th. ?They serve exactly the same chicken and rice. ?So I wonder, why does one always have a longer line? ?One of my friend's tells me, people always follow a line, just to see what's happening. ?I totally agree. ?If you can get the same food faster, why not just go across the street? ? Maybe it's the recent cool factor of having to wait in line for food, or maybe those people are just drunk? ?This place is alright, but there are several other chicken with rice carts that are tastier and fresher. ?When you see the two feet high pile of chicken on the cart, you think, is the chicken piled on the top hot and fresh?..... Fyi.....most street carts order the lamb gyro from the same place, it comes in a big chunk and they chop it up, so I only talk about the chicken.
worth the wait. ?i now understand all the hype.
This is a must for anyone visiting NYC. ?The best food cart in NYC. ? The lines are long at the original cart but the other two carts that are on the same block are just as good. ?I would never wait when the quality is exactly the same. ?I usually end up getting mixed half chicken and half lamb with extra white sauce. ?Its the perfect combo, and one order is probably enough for two normal ppl. ? T
Amazing food, good prices , the only downside is the long lines but its totally worth the wait! ? The white sauce is great, I mix it with the hot sauce which can clear your sinuses (very hot) ?I prefer the lamb and rice combo , the chicken one is equally as good. If you're in NYC you should definitely try it out.
Adding one more review to an impressive number of 3228 reviews! After a tolerable wait in line, I finally got to taste the infamous c&r. Well it was more like c&l&r as I got half chicken and half lamb. It tasted amazing. The white sauce is amazing. But stomach felt funny afterwards... Also in the wintertime it's hard to eat outside!
Definitely one of the best places to get Halal Food. Definitely worth the price.
Not worth a long schlep to get to, but if you're in the area then it's amazingly good for the price. (Assuming you have no problem with adding tons of garlic sauce.)
There will be 20-25 people standing in line at 2AM on a freezing January morning at this place. Nuff Said... :)
BELIEVE THE F***ING HYPE!!! There's nothing else to say that hasn't already been said.
a new york gem, what hasnt been said about these halal carts. ?nothing hits the drunkest parts of your stomach quite like 53rd and 6th. ? this is some tasty tasty C and R, mainly due to heavy turnover and extra delicious white sauce. ? use red sauce sparingly (your anus will thank you) also, no need to wait on the original line. ?all of the guys in yellow shirts in the area make the same food. ?i have even seen movement of food from between the carts. ?it really is the same thing.
It tasted like every other halal cart I've been to. My uncle swears by this one. Like, you stay in Jersey and rarely visit the city. Please
What can I say about this cart that hasn't already been said? Copious amounts of yellow rice and perfectly seasoned sauteed chicken. It wasn't until *after* I started frequenting halal carts in Brooklyn that I realized the quality of this place. Their white sauce is AMAZING, unlike the Bay Ridge halal cart on 86th St. whose white sauce tastes like ranch dressing!). Their hot sauce is as hot as it gets (think Mamoun's - not crap like Frank's hot sauce, aka heatless red salt). The line flows quickly, and there's a bench right around the corner to devour it all. So perfect. So serene in the afterhours. So delicious. So halal. You will be seeing my face again, and you know it, you saucy minx!
In a city swarming with people and food options, there seems to be one place that masses upon masses generally congregate, especially in the wee hours of the night/morning - the corners of 53rd and 6th. ?Yes for the simple guilty pleasures of chicken and rice from a food cart, people will stand in line, cash ready, anxiously waiting to place their order. ?Of course I am no different :-) I was informed that there are three of these "We are different" Halal guys carts within the general area all serving the exact same food but I NEEDED to go to the original one for the full experience of waiting in line. ?Starving as I was I wanted to disagree, especially when the smell cooked meat tickled my nose and tested my stomach, but the line was moving fast enough so I acquiesced. ?This "original" location is at the corner with the water fountains across from the Hilton. ?You will see brave and daring ppl sitting at the ledge of this water fountain enjoying their food. *Note to self - try to book a reservation at this Hilton for future NYC party weekends to ensure easy access to this place. Chicken and Rice - $6 Chicken/Gyro and Rice Combo - $6 Best $6 you will ever spend on food in Manhattan. ?Since I like variety, I would recommend the chicken/gyro combo. ?You get your chosen meat on a bed of yellow rice and lettuce. ?The infamous white sauce, in large quantities, is a definite must. ?There is no such thing as too much white sauce so lay it on and lay it on thick. ?The same cannot be said about the red sauce. ?They mean it when they say that it is very hot. ?I mean it when I say that it is very hot, so proceed with caution. Bottom line is that Manhattan is a city of options filled with busy people of little patience for nonsense so if you see a line of 80 people, you join the crowd. ?No questions asked and you won't regret it. ?So holla Halal guys!!!
Don't be embarrassed if you are wearing a suit, waiting in a never ending line, sitting in a nearby bench that is reserved by the bums, sweating your balls eating out of a to go box...It is all worth it! Oh, be careful with the hot sauce...I will not go into details about what happened to me last time. FYI: The workers' yellow t-shirt logo had apples in them. ?IF you are confused about which cart I am talking about.
This place was definitely popular... The service was great and it was a lot fresher than any other cart food we passed. We got the pork and chicken combo. It was good with the rice and we enjoyed the white sauce.
Tried halal guys the other day, typical halal truck experience, I don't find them anything special other than them giving large portions and pita bread compared to other halal trucks.
Have traveled from way out in Long Island to the city and back just for a bite!! Whenever I come here, I have to buy extra servings for home.. It's that addicting.. They could always be more friendly but they make too much money in such a quick time to really spend time with anybody.. Other halal carts are never as good..
The first time waiting is a fun experience (try to spot the fake trucks!), but ultimately tl, dr: the hot sauce is great, but this isn't worth the wait. Love the portion size, but found the texture to be a little bit too hard, while the sauce to be too rich (hence why the hot sauce came in handy).
Talk about NY street food! This is as good as it gets folks! I highly recommend this joint to anyone who plan to experience NYC in its true form. I was dragged here by my friends back in 2009 after an Offspring concert at Roseland. That night changed y life. When I first looked at the line, I was like "Dude, really? We were already standing for like 5 hours!" but my friends swore that it was worth the wait. Actually, the guys there are pros and have their system down to a T and so the line goes quickly. For 6 bucks, you'll get a generous portion of yellow rice, pita bread and meat (lamb or chicken) but I always get lamb. Top it off with hot sauce and bathe it in white sauce and you're all set. If you want to have an even more orgasmic experience, come here when you're drunk or have the munchies. Listen to some Pink Floyd and your ethereal experience awaits. *** Take note: they are only here from 7 pm- 4 am. Food carts that are here other times are not associated with the Halal Guys.***
This is the best. It's a city staple. No brainer.
By far the best Halal / Chicken and Rice in the city. If there's a line, it's worth the wait, and it goes by super fast.
Arguably started the food cart thing. Still the best.
I have changed my review because I have tried the REAL cart today. ?Since I finished my contract last year at Radio City Music Hall, I never had a chance to go back. ?And the owner of the legendary halal cart sent me the following message after my initial review. ? Jim S. : Just wanted to let you know. If you at lunch here, it's the wrong cart. This cart isn't here till after 7pm, till like 4am. Hope you get a chance to try the real cart and enjoy it. Peace. Well, today, I was in the neighborhood for lunch. ?And had the Halal from this cart, and I was impressed. ?Jim was right, I did eat out of the wrong cart the last time. ? The Halal I had today was rice and lamb, and there was an abundant amount meat, and it wasn't too salty. ?And the yogurt was very pleasant ( I am a white sauce guy). So hats off to you Jim. ?I will update my review as soon as I finish this update. ?Thanks for asking me to give your cart another try. ?Now I have another Halal cart in my lunch arsenal.
Super friendly workers, super tasty food, and free tote bag! SWAG
You People Enjoy Waiting On Line, Don't You? I work in Midtown, down in the mid-40s, and have no shortage of food carts to choose from for lunch, including halfway decent halal carts (which I will eat at if it's raining or something), but every week I make a point to hike up to 53rd for some Halal Guys. ?Every time, as I walk past the mind-boggling lines at the 53rd and 6th locations, I wonder to myself "Don't you people know there's another Halal Guys cart at 53rd and 7th?" ?As I walk up to the 53rd and 7th cart, I see, sure enough, the secret is still safe. ?In and out in 2 minutes. ?It's almost ironic that the cart closest to the Wretched Hive of Tourism and Villainy known as Times Square gets the least amount of foot traffic. Not that I'm complaining! ?If anything, I'm almost afraid to post this, as I don't have the time nor inclination to walk 10+ blocks and stand in some godawful queue. ?BUT, I also don't want them to shut it down, so it's worth risking that a few people will chance to read this and give the 53rd and 7th cart a little love. The food itself is, of course, just super. ?Protips: They say "white sauce", you say "hell yes!", and take the hit of spicy sauce, you wimp! ?And the portions are large enough that you can eat half one day and finish it the next day, which is 2 delicious lunches for less than $3! ?Beats a peanut butter sammich any day!
Omg! I don't know what's in that white sauce, but who cares. Everything was great. Waiting on line and seating by the street eating those mixed chicken and lamb halal was highlight of my day. But watch out for their hot sauce, they are dangerous!
Was it worth the 20 min wait? ?No. ?I had high expectations and it was just avg. The line did move pretty quickly though. ?The rice/meat platter wasn't anything special and i think their secret sauce is a mixture a caesar salad based dressing that i wasn't too fond.
Fast, Cheap, and Efficient Sometimes the line is very very long but they manage to make it go really fast. Really busy at night when the drunk crowd rolls in. --- CHICKEN mothafing RICE For The WIN combo of chicken and lamb is pretty good also. Lather me up in the white sauce PLEASE, I can just bathe my chicken rice with that shizz and eat it for dayz!!!!! No really though, in summary get the chicken rice then pour the white sauce and alittle red for you spicy folks and EAT then BOOM!!!!
chicken & rice! this is a must place to go if you're in the city. yes the lines are long, but totally worth it. there's like 1000 halal carts, but we always end up here. every time i have family and friends go back home/visit new york, i tell them to bring me back some half lamb/half chicken with extra white sauce. comforting, flavorful, and the white sauce - heaven. definitely recommended this specific halal cart to family and friends visiting new york. will definitely come back again and again (if i'm in the area)! check out the picture i posted.
Ordered my usual halal cart meal: "chicken/lamb combo over salad with white and hot". These are the guys that set the standard by which all other NYC halal carts should be judged. If you've never been or are new to NYC halal, make sure you visit. Only bad part: bring a smartphone or book and if it is cold or rainy be sure and dress right, the line is long at lunch.
Frikkkin awesome! Went here during our NYC trip back in January. Went around midnight and the line want long at all. They go straight to business. Tell them what you want, pay and wait for it. That white sauce is awesome. I kept going back to add it. If you're in NYC, you have to check this out! Don't worry it's easy to find.
Best in New York City!!!
cheap, good portion, gets the job done *Note: be careful with the hot sauce!
Last time I was there was probably 18 months ago. ?I was going for an appointment at the Apple store but ?I was early so I decided to go get some food first. ? After finding the "active cart" (there are like 3-4 total and they rotate as the active one while the other carts are preparing, I realized the line will be long enough that I must bring the food back to eat at the Apple store. ?Upon returning to the store is when I realized how spicy it really was. ? MAN! ?IT WAS SPICY!!!! and GOOD! ? I was sweating up a storm while waiting to talk to my Apple genius and I was so happy that no one at the store cared that I was eating up a lamb dish right in the store (you know that unmistakeable smell of the Halal street meat that will penetrate and permeate everywhere. ?Anyway, that was the best street halal I've ever had and well worth the wait.
Delicious food, huge portions, cheap prices! All the guys are pretty friendly and super fast with your order- I swear it's ready in 3 mins! I'd give it 5 stars if they opened a restaurant or a little fast food take out spot in each borough, instead of me waiting on line for an hour every time I crave chicken and rice.
Pescatarian and vegetarian friendly, only one option, falafel over rice for $6. ?I'm not a big of premade falafel. ?It just don't taste as good. ?There are fewer and fewer carts that make it on the spot, such as Moshe Falafel. ?Fried things just taste better fresh off the fryer.
I've eaten at this cart many times and loved it. Last night, however, this was not the case. I got my chicken and rice to go, so I got my sauces on the side. First, I tasted the food without sauce and something tasted "off" but I determined it was just the lack of sauce. Today (since 8am, now 5pm), I've been suffering from food poisoning and about to go to urgent care. Beware.
I guess when it comes to Halal food, this is as good as it gets. Lines are super long ... ALL the time, but the wait isn't that bad. But it's a great experience when you're waiting on the line with great company and intoxicated.... The waiting makes it tastes that much better when you take that first bite. DO note that the hot sauce is NOTHING like siracha, so do not be a fool and sprinkle it on like regular hot sauce. You will not enjoy the consequences ... speaking from experience. Overall, I would highly recommend one to try it if they haven't.
The line is usually stretched down the block. You can smell the aroma of the late night grills when you turn the corner near the Hilton or Ben Benson's. This is NYC street food folks! It is usually something I myself and many in this city avoid like the plague. However, unlike the other thousands of food carts around the city, this is real food. And, it's damn good too. This is no lonesome guy with a food cart selling chow - it's an real operation. Working your way down the line you will encounter order takers, several cooks, a "to go" bagger, a drink guy, a money taker, etc. You may even see a refrigerated truck or cooler filled cargo vans pull up occasionally to drop off fresh meats (providing fresh turnover of food). This is almost an MBA operation in food service delivery. And, it is a dynamic and sometimes fascinating cash business with basically little to no overhead which keeps their prices low. The lamb, beef, chicken and combo dishes are all very good and flavorful. At $6 a container it's an incredible bargain -- thus the reason for all of the young college kids, local hotel service workers, neighborhood folks, and thirty something's in line. The secret is in the white sauce! It's pretty amazing so order a little extra. (Enough said). The red hot sauce is killer. One last comment: Many customers simply sit and eat on the nearby benches that are incorporated into a commercial building plaza. In many ways this area is a neighborhood too. If you go, please tidy up after you leave and use the trash receptacles. Happy dining!
good solid food. The menu is good, the guys who work there are awesome. I will be back. Again and again. I like that as a jew they offer kosher options :-)
go for the spicy hot sauce! this is by far the most popular halal food truck in New York! you must try it at least once if you're a real New Yorker! People wait in long lines for this. I usually stop by this place if I'm coming out from MOMA and it's hard to miss the line since they're always so long. I'd take my friends who are visiting NY here to try the famous street food. The portion's big so I usually share mine with a friend.
I've always love chicken and rice. I went back there today and it was disappointing. Perhaps it's way overrated now by all the visiting tourists. But the chicken was boiled then heated on the cart. you can taste it if you know your food well. ?There isnt much flavor beside the sauce. They also cut down the portion of rice and vegetable in a serving. I've found my new favorite place with much better serving size, flavor and a big smile to greet you when you order, instead of NEXT!!! lol Must check out : yelp.com/biz/king-of-fal? They're awesome!
Whenever I go to New York I always make a point to eat here. Personally I don't think a trip to New York is successful without stopping by the Halal Guys. The line fluctuates from being really long to being short. For the food I like how much meat they give. I usually do a mixed platter of lamb and chicken. The rice is also super tasty and fluffy. Then dab some red sauce and some white sauce on and you'll be golden. If people are hesitant about how clean it looks I tell them to not look at how they cook the stuff just eat it! So bring cash and be ready to wait in line for a bit. I'll definitely go again next time I'm in the Big Apple.
I love, love this place. The food is delicious and cheap and just full of wonderfulness. I try to go at odd hours so the wait in line isn't incredibly painful. I am planning another trip to NYC soon just so I can get my hands on this.
I'm from Michigan, where food carts are generally inconceivable. Even hot dog stands are a rare sight. Prior to my NYC trip, I'd heard plenty of rave about chicken and rice from plenty of friends, so naturally I figured I'd see for myself what all the hype is about. My fianc? and I tried this for the first time with very high expectations and we were not disappointed at all. This is honestly the best street food I've had in my life, and for a mere $6, you get a HUGE plate of chicken, rice, pita and lettuce. Sounds pretty ordinary until you mix everything together with their signature white sauce. Mind-blowingly delicious! Luckily, we were there right when they set up their station, so we were able to avoid a line, but I would gladly wait a day and a half just to get my hands on this bombdiggity grub.
Definitely the best chicken over rice I can ever have in the city
had this 3 times in the last 3 days. scarfed it down every time. coincidence!? i think not. p.s. respect the hot sauce. it's not fkin around.
That food cart has how many reviews?!?!?! For the price you definitely get your money's worth. ?During my first ever visit to New York, I had a list of food places that I needed to try and the Halal Cart was definitely on that list. ?There were four of us and after dinner at Totto Ramen we were walking to our next destination and happened to pass by the original Halal Cart. ?There was no way I was going to let this opportunity pass me by, so we decided to order the Lamb and Chicken over Rice. ?Yes, it was a post dinner meal immediately after finishing our meal. ? This could perhaps of been the best $6 you could spend in New York. ?You have a very generous helping of everything, lamb, chicken and rice. ?There was definitely enough for the four of us to share right after dinner. ?This would be perfect for lunch or dinner for one person. ?The food was cooked nicely and tasted exceptionally good mind you we weren't even hungry. ?Add some of the hot sauce and you have a well balanced dish. ?All the components of the plate nicely balance each other out. ?This is definitely a place I will frequent on my upcoming trips to NYC! I wish all food carts/stands served this quality of food! ?We stood outside in the cold the day after a blizzard. ?It was that good we all forgot how cold it was outside! #hellaYUMMS
What can I say...anyone who knows anything about Halal carts knows this is THE place to go. ? Can I say its 10x better than any other halal cart I've been to, probably not? ?Maybe its the hype that makes it extra tasty.
I just want everyone to know that I left home almost 4 years ago and since then, at least once a week, I dream about that amazing chicken platter slathered in extra white sauce! Da** already salivating at the thought.
Combo over rice with white sauce and a little (just a little) hot sauce is worth the line.
I generally don't eat street food in NYC, but chicken and rice from 53rd and 6th is a must when you're in the area! They have opened up a few additional locations in the past couple years, but the line still gets long during dinner and late night hours. Definitely a late night snack/after clubbing type of food... I normally get the chicken and rice platter. It comes with pita bread and always ask for extra white sauce! If you're eating it there, they have bottles of the white/hot sauce on the side of their carts; however, would recommend asking them for extra white sauce if you're taking it home. The lamb is also okay, but too salty for my taste. BTW, make sure you go to the right cart(s)! They are other carts nearby that wear the yellow shirt/sweater, but make sure it says "Halal Guys" And, YES! The chicken and rice taste different! I think it's the rice and the white sauce that makes this place the best!!
This cart is literally the definition of what I want in street food: fast, cheap, and tasty. ?I kept hearing about 'chicken and rice' in NYC but I always thought, what's the big deal? ?I have never had Halal food before, but this place whetted my curiosity of this cuisine. ?I got the chicken and rice dish to go(versus eating it around the area) and the guy whipped out already made to go plates. ?The line was not very long so I was in and out in a matter of minutes! ?The dishes were still warm too and came along with a white sauce and a red hot spicy sauce. ?A little bit of the red sauce goes a long way. ?They give you a lot of chicken and rice and with it only being $6, it makes for a great, inexpensive meal any time of day. ?The chicken is cut in little bite size pieces and it is moist and flavorful. ?The combination of the chicken and the rice mixed with both sauces was just heavenly for me. ? I would definitely go again to this place and would highly recommend it to friends.
5 Stars...for what it is: Shitty meat and average rice with a complex sauce to blow your taste buds out of proportion. I think people ought to be ashamed for loving this place so much...really speaks for "American" food standards. It could be rabid rat meat with MSG mixed with arsenic, but as long as it tastes good, it doesn't matter what it is or what it's doing to your acid-re-flux problem. There's a pill for that! Nevertheless, 5 stars for what it set out to be. I shared half a plate 4 years ago, and I was sick for 2 weeks. Then 2 years later, in the oblivion of late nights finals week and utter exhaustion, I shared 1/3 with my roommate who brought it home. At that point, all my food snobbishness and health concerns had gone out the window. I was sick for 3 days, with a burning stomach and cold sweat. Nothing happened to the other people who ate from the same batch of food... Anyway, if you want to have healthy babies in the future, I highly suggest staying away from this place. Despite countless theories, no one really knows "chicken and rice" is really made of anyways.
Honestly I can't believe there's something like this in NY. The line is always long, but it moves fast. There's a separate cart just a little farther down 53rd st. to prep the meat, which is then transferred over to the main cart (so don't get confused and wait at the wrong cart). What is there to say that hasn't already been said? $6 flat for a ridiculously large tin of chicken/lamb over rice and all the white sauce/spicy sauce you could want, who wouldn't love this stuff? The Halal branch in Austin can't even compare. I suggest you get the chicken over the lamb (which is a new thing for me). The chicken has a wonderful smokey flavor that the lamb can't compete with. So good.
Why is it that every time I have a midnight craving it's for this chicken over rice?! Far too many times I have tried to resist crossing the GWB just for chicken over rice and ended up having subpar versions elsewhere AND paid more money for it. Yes, so I have learned from my mistakes and gladly pay $13 to cross the GWB for this chicken over rice and it's so worth it!!
SO good. the white sauce is a mystery but the best thing I ever tasted. The hot sauce is lethal, but this is the best bang for your buck cart. Tip: the cart on 53rd and 6th near the Hilton has a ridiculous line, but the same guys have a cart on 53rd and 7th. Go there instead and you won't wait on line for than 5 minutes.
it's cheap and a big portion. long lines go fast. remember to get the yogurt sauce! be ready for food coma!
Always great food, low price, and great service! It's worth the wait.
My goodness. I had no idea $6 food could taste sooooo good. I intern ?really close to this food stand and when I was browsing Yelp to see what I could find nearby, I was intrigued that there was a food cart right around the corner! I had yet to fulfill my Halal food cart experience so why not give it a shot? As I approached 53rd and 6th, I was a little confused as to why there were 2 Halal carts, one with a long line and one with a shorter line. Everything else looked exactly the same between the two carts, but naturally, all the native New Yorkers were telling me that the line exists for a reason!!! So, a piece of sage advice: STAND IN THE DAMN LINE. WAIT YOUR TURN. IT WILL BE SO WORTH IT. Also, fun fact, I got my "energy" read by the lady standing in line before me. That, I will never forget, but back to the food. wowowowow. I got the combination platter, which is perfect for indecisive people like me: half lamb, half chicken with a big splotch of white sauce and a drop of red. Mix it all together, and I have what I would want as my last meal on earth. Also, you might want to share it as eating the entire thing most definitely would put you in a food coma! I am definitely going again, and again, and again.
I am wracking my brain trying to figure out what all the hype is about here. As the small number of bad reviews have mentioned, the meat is completely bland and the "white sauce" is just ranch dressing. Also, I got some of the hot sauce on my hands, and now every part of my face I touch is burning, even after washing my hands. I wanted to love this place so much, but seriously, I don't get it.
Original halal cart for me. You always remember your first. Always come here once in a while just for the loyalty. In my opinion their meat (chicken and lamb) is always better than any other cart I've been to.
LOVE LOVE LOVE this place! Whenever I'm in New York I have to stop by here for a plate of chicken and rice with lots of hot sauce and their special white sauce. I introduced by fiance to the chicken and rice for the first time and he was amazed at how good it was. He asked to go back the next day! There is always a line but the line moves very quickly. I can't wait to return to New York for that delicious plate of chicken and rice. Their combo (chicken and lamb) is also amazing!
After hearing all the hype about this particular halal cart, we were all willing to walk the extra 10 blocks to this place after a long night of drinking.. In my fuzzy memory, the line was long but went by quickly, cash only, and either $5 or $6 for a HUGE plate of dank meat over rice. All I can say is, it was so amazing that we went back AGAIN the second night. Must try if your're in NYC!!
Ummmm holy crap their food is so simple yet DELICIOUS! We went to halal guys after a long day of touristy stuff. We happened to be in the area after visiting Rockefeller Plaza. After such a tiring day, I suggested we get halal after everyone and their mom saying it was a must have. Thank god when we got there it was only around a 15 min wait. I've heard that people wait hours! They were SUPER quick with the food. The guys were really nice! The sauce is on the side of the cart. I got the chicken and rice. The portion is HUGEEEE!! I also doused the whole thing in the white sauce. HOLY CRAP SAUCE was so good. It made the chicken and rice so amazing. I tried my friends lamb and it was also really really good! Bring cash and they are only cash only!!
Fantastic food! Got the platter combo for $6 and shared with my sis. Be prepared, the hot sauce is really really spicy! No kidding!
I had really high expectations for this because all of my friends as well as the Yelp community said it was great halal food. I mean, it was good, definitely. But I think the high expectations really worked against me in terms of my opinion of the place. The good: -It's made fresh -The white sauce is great--feel free to put as much of that on as you'd like -The red sauce is ACTUALLY spicy, which is rare from a lot of places -cheap! Only 6 dollars for enough food for 2 meals The bad: -Chicken isn't seasoned that much -Lamb is a bit salty I think what I got from this experience is that I need to try other halal trucks and see if this is in fact the best, because maybe I just haven't tried the others enough.
These guys and their delicious falafel are exceptional. ?I randomly stumbled upon them while looking for lunch one afternoon on my most recent business trip out east. ?It was late [3pm-ish] and I figured I would just pop into a nearby deli for a quick salad. ?Imagine my surprise when I saw a line of 10-15ppl standing outside of their food cart with falafel and gyros on the menu for only $6? ?[For those who know me best, I just love falafel, hummus and gyros.] ? I figured a line that long could only mean one thing -- this _ish had to be good. ?The gentleman serving my food was terribly charming, calling me "sweetie" and "honey" while dishing up my falafel and chicken over rice. ?The portions are ridiculous and when hunkering down at my office, I found myself devouring my food. ?I was happy. ?So happy, in fact, that I made it a point to swing by their cart again for lunch the very next day. ?And the cutiepie man from the day before totally recognized me! LOVE these guys, love their food, and love that it's just around the corner from my company's New York office. Mark my words, I will be back.
We call this the crack cart... because it's so delicious that there must be crack in it! Love the lamb, could do without the chicken. Get the white sauce on the side, be easy on that hot sauce - it will burn on both ends! Top it all off with a grape soda and you've got yourself a delicious and affordable mid-town meal!
Halallllll!!!!!!! What I was looking forward to most during my trip to NY! ?I stopped by with my brother after we watched a broadway show (around 10pm) and their was a good line in front of this little cart. However, they are very efficient because within 15 minutes, we got our food! My brother and I shared a chicken and rice plate because it's HUGE! This dish consists of an orangy yellow rice, lettuce, slices of pita bread, and pulled chicken. They have their white sauce and red sauce on the side of their cart for your own disposal, so make sure you GO HAM on that white sauce man!!! cover every inch! This definitely lived up to expectations. ?SOSOSOSO cheap, especially given its size! ?The chicken was so flavorful and tender!!! & that white sauce....its magical. Every component of this dish worked so perfectly together, its almost ridiculous. BEWARE of the red sauce tho! It is for the mighty. NEW YORK RESIDENTS, consider yourself very lucky. NEW YORK VISITORS, getcho self there ASAP.
A few friends have been telling me how great this chicken over rice was, I had to try it when I was in NYC. ?I heard about the long lines but I went there at the right time (just before lunch) and only had to wait a few minutes. ?The chicken over rice portion was huge for only $6!! ?The chicken was so tender and juicy and the rice was cooked just right. ?The sauce was really good too and added some of their hot sauce. ?I'm definitely going back again next time I'm in NYC. ?I hear it's good for a late night snack.
It's the BEST deal in NY!!! $18 for 3 combo meals - chicken & gyro mix w/rice & pita. Get's you full! SOOOO YUMMY!!! We ordered to go and they are generous w/the sauces too! White AND HOT sauce. Caution HOT IS ACTUALLY VERY HOT!!! I eat tons of spicy food my mouth was on fire cuz I drenched it w/ a lot of sauce. I am craving it again as I write this and can't wait to go back to NY.
Pretty decent halal food......especially when you're drunk. Got the falafel plate and the chicken plate. These guys are fast and they take care of a long line in no time! If only all of NYC lines learned from these Halal masters. I had the falafel with the hot sauce and white sauce and it was pretty deliciouso, except for the fact that the hot sauce was crazy HOT!!!! I'm indian and I'm used to hot and spicy but this is ridiculously blazin'. As I am typing this I am craving the food again LOL. The white sauce is amazing and the rice is not bad. I ordered my chicken with BBQ sauce and white sauce and it is tasty. The portion is pretty good too. There is not a New Yorker around that does not know about these Halal specialists +_+ These guys are cheap, affordable, friendly, tasty, fast, and open all night long (just how nyc places are supposed to run their business). PREPARE TO BE AMAZED!! O_O I rated it 4 stars **** because I've had a better falafel plate elsewhere with more bang for my buck but these guys aren't too far off from falafel perfection.
One order. Chicken and lamb mix over rice. It is best to share it with someone because it is a lot of food. I didn't know that and I felt really bad wasting about half of it. White sauce - you need lots and lots of it. Add a dash of hot sauce for an extra kick. Chicken is nice and tender and compliments the white sauce really well. The lamb gyro is a bit salty for my taste. I ended up getting a water to balance it out. Regardless - it is great late night food and a must if you are visiting New York or simply a local.
Hella food for $6. Got the chicken and gyro mix over rice. This is probably the best halal place for chicken. Usually its dry and not tasty but I loved it. The gryo is a bit saltier than I like. Still freaking good. The portion is HUGE. Friend and I got our own because we're fat like that. Did not finish but its OK! Only $6. Probably the cheapest meal I've had my whole trip. The line is pretty long. It moves fast at least!
chicken and rice cannot get better. ?they even opened a new cart near my apartment in Union Square so I can enjoy them whenever i want to! (at work in midtown and at home downtown)... loving life!
After a week in the big apple my funds were running kinda low...I was tired of dropping lots of money for food I just wasn't too pleased with. I told my sister I wanted something good and something cheap! So...I waited in the long line...a long line that moved pleasingly fast. I ordered the gyro pita...omg...it was so damn good....tender meat, hot sauce...all this for $6. I ate it all...yes I pigged out. I could have easily shared but I didn't want to. I get the halal guys hype...I get it
The food is really good as people said. However, since it is street food, you should always be careful. I also want to say that even though one cart always has a longer line than the others, they all are from the same group.
I love these guys their food is so good!
This is one of the benchmark meals of NYC. ? Street meat, what is common nomenclature for Halal rice/protein/salad in a container, does not get any better than this. ?I prefer the chicken, as their's is the finest the city has to offer, with a normal amount of white sauce, and about 3 stripes of hot sauce. ?This is very bold, and only advise a small amount or no hot sauce for the average person. ?Their's is hot!!! ?Not like red-hot or sriracha, hotter.
Awesome lamp rice, there are millions of similar food stand in NYC but I love this one the best!
This food stand is magical. MAGICAL! The food is really good, and they give you so much food for $6. I have been here twice (once when I first visited New York this summer, the second time when my friends and I were driving from Boston to Philly and stopped by here at 1am). The portions are huge, so much so that it lasts for two meals ($3 per meal, oh my goodness). I like the mixed plate of lamb and chicken, but you can just get chicken with rice if lamb isn't your thing. I don't usually eat lamb but I found the lamb meat here to be not as gamey as other places. The white sauce is delicious and creamy and thick, and the red sauce is SPICY. I like to mix a little bit of the red sauce with the white sauce so it has just the perfect amount of kick. It is not uncommon to see a line of people here, nor is it uncommon to see a bunch of people sitting on the steps of the adjacent plazas, leaning over their round foil containers and yellow plastic bags, eating away. Definitely try Halal Guys when you visit New York!
Was expecting big things after the hype from friends and via yelp. The Halal Cart on 53rd and 6th is super famous and has been recommended to us enthusiastically by many friends and family. We came across the cart at the corner and you can't miss it because it's the one cart which the humungous line. Luckily these guys have it down to an art and keep the line moving. ?For only $6 you get a plate of rice with two wedges of pita bread and your choice or lamb, chicken or combo meat. ?They also have a La Vic's-like signature white sauce.
Best chicken and rice I've ever had! Got there right at 7pm and line was already super long (good sign). Didn't wait too long though, about 15 mins till I got my food. HUGE portion of rice, chicken and pita for just 6 bux. They have their own signature sauces on the side of the truck. I'd recommend the white one and the red one is extremely spicy. Definitely worth the wait!
Love it
Very simple dishes done well. Cheap too. But it's not worth waiting in line for more than 15 minutes.
If you like a little heat, ask for extra containers of their hot sauce. ?I'm not sure what this stuff is, but it does exactly what I want my hot sauces to do- enhance the flavors on the plate and bring a little sweat to my brow.
Ok...Seriously what do you put in this thing?! Crack??!?! Whether you're drunk or sober, their chicken and rice is to die for! Earlier at night I had a bad case of a stomachache. Just so that I could eat this piece of heaven I swigged a huge gulp of pepto bismol. ? Mmm Hmm it's THAT worth it!
HOLY MOLY chicken & rice! Being an avid halal cart fan, I knew I had to try the infamous Halal Guys cart. Walked over here after watching Cat on a Hot Tin Roof with ScarJo and was surprised that there was no line at 11:30pm. Here's the breakdown: -Chicken & Rice: Chicken is cooked perfectly, not too soft and has a great consistency to it. Flavored just right so it doesn't overpower the white and chili sauce. Rice was nice--morsels are separated so you don't have to go through trouble of sticky rice. The lettuce that they add is crisp and fresh,. -White sauce: Sublime, creamy and balances well with the hot sauce (beware: spicy!) Keep in mind, the portions are holy moly HUUUUUUUGE! My best friend said he wasn't hungry so now I'm stuck eating the whole thing (not that I mind, haha). For $6, this is a great deal and a party for your tastebuds! Don't let the rumor of long lines damper your trek over here---the Halal Guys move fast! Plus, there is two other carts on other corners so you don't have to wait as long!
Must-do's of NYC (according to me): 1. Visit a museum (The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Museum of Modern Art, the Museum of Natural History or the Guggenheim, etc.) 2. Watch a Broadway show 3. View the city skyline via the Empire State Building or Top of the Rock 4. EAT STREET MEAT And boy, oh boy, does the 53rd &6th Halal Cart epitomize street meat. It's the best and it's definitely worth waiting for. During peak times, I can imagine waiting thirty minutes or longer for these guys (just judging by the line I saw forming when we left), but the boyfriend and I luckily came just before the rush and waited ten minutes, tops. The line moves pretty quickly, so I wouldn't worry too much about time -- the guys have pretty much have the system down to a science. The food is amazing. Probably the best $6 ever spent. We both got just the Lamb Plate, which came with rice, lamb, lettuce, and pita bread. The portions were generous, I even had some leftover and it tasted even better in the morning. lol. The white sauce is amazing and the hot sauce deserves major props -- once lick and I'm a goner. I felt bad for the one guy who accidentally got it in his eye. :P They actually have three carts, so if the line at the main one gets too hectic, see if the other ones are better. They have two on 53rd and 6th (one in front of the Hilton and one across from it, on 6th), and the other on is on 53rd and 7th. The one in front of the Hilton is only open from 7pm to 4am; the other two are open from 10am to 5am. Bring cash and enjoy!
There's a reason why this is the only halal cart that has lines in the city! The combo platter with EXTRA white sauce and a little sauce and I'm a happy camper!
The food was good, even the leftovers reheated the next day. But neither my wife nor I thought it was the best we've had. I liked the gyro meat better than the chicken. The chicken seemed uninspired, and it's hard to imagine it being any different on another night, since I have to believe they have the whole process down to a science. We can say we've gone, but we won't make it a point to go back.
This is a classic must go if you are ever in ?New York. 53rd and 6th Halal Cart is part of the cheap eats in NY. Before I wrote a review about Prosperity Dumpling which is essentially $1 for 5 dumplings. 53rd and 6th Halal Cart is the Prosperity Dumpling of Halal food. The most common order is chicken and rice. They give you white sauce (yogurt) and red sauce with halal rice and ground chicken with lettuce in a container that has around a 7 inch diameter. I remember going here few years back and the price was around $5 for one of them. Now with inflation and all that jazz it has increased up to around $7 for one of them. Tip isn't necessary since they don't serve you, however, there is plenty of space to eat since it is the city. If this is your first time in NYC, go!
Delicious, cheap meal and a must-try if you've never had it! You do get sick of it very quickly though as the rice is greasy and the sauces are pretty heavy, but definitely get it if you're in New York for the first time. Get it with both the yogurt and hot sauce for the best taste!
The food is good but the lines are long. Have no vegetarian options( a falafel maybe guys?). They make you wait forever and they think they are the ONLY cart in NYC. I've found other better ones. Its the hype and that's all it is. Standing on line that's half an avenue block long is ridiculous at 4 am. Maybe its shorter other times of the day but the attitude and the wait make you feel like you're begging for the food. Better off going to the other carts one or two blocks away and being treated right and much faster. I think the food's good but the whole unrealistic hype and the attitude is not worth waiting in line. Oh, I've also seen them kick people off the line for being "rowdy". From what I saw, the guy wasn't standing in attention position and that's all it took for him to get kicked out. Guys, it's a food cart, not a club.
Not much to add here. I was in New York City last month and after getting it and dumping some of that white sauce (a total must) I absolutely fell in love while the combination of the salad, rice, and chicken sent signals of flavor into my brain. It is worth every single penny (the chicken and rice will set you back a mere $6) and this will be the first thing (or one of the first things) I want to get the next time I am in New York. I gladly recommend this without reservation.
Location, location, location... This cart is fine but you can get just as good a lunch (and even better falafel and steak & cheese subs) from the Halal Cart at 88th and Central Park West for less $$$ and a much shorter line! The one drawback is that unlike this cart, they are gone by 5 PM and only there Monday through Friday.
Delicious. Although, I was really expecting it to blow me away after reading all the Yelp reviews and hearing my friends absolutely rave about this place. It was good, don't get me wrong, but it tasted just like what it is: rice with meat, lettuce, and cheese. I was expecting this like amazing combination of flavors that I had never experienced before. But, basically, if you've had the ingredients separately, you've had this. But, for 6 bucks, how can I complain?
There are 3 or 4 of these guys in the same corner. ?They're not imitators. ?They're the same fucking place with the same fucking food, but for some reason all the lemmings choose to line up at one. ?When one lemming lines up, you'll get a domino effect of lemmings lining up. ?All the while you have the 3 other carts cooking the food, delivering the food to the cart with the line. ?I literally saw this happen. ? Do yourself a favor, and go to any of the same halal carts on 53rd and 6th without the line and don't be a moron. Oh, and the food is as good as they say.
Can't add much. Only tip - either order both chicken and lamb in two plates or get the combo. Because asking your friend for his/her for samples is not nice and might get you killed (trust me, I've a black eye this morning)!
I think about visiting this halal cart at least once every time I'm visiting NYC. Now I'm not a big fan of street food but their chicken/lamb plate has something so addicting that it keeps me coming back for more. In the past, I've shamelessly inhaled my plate of delicious lamb and chicken with rice while sitting out in cold with a group of friends while pigeons eyed me for my food. I've been here in the middle of the night to find a long line of drunks or half drunks waiting for this cart. This is definitely an addiction. Now I can't imagine how much damage it'll do to my health and waist line long term so I glad I get to eat this only while on vacation in NYC.
This place gets 50 stars. I am absolutely obsessed with halal cart. When I'm not eating, I wish I was eating it. When I am eating it, I wish my stomach was a bottomless pit so I would never have to stop eating it. I usually stick to the tried and true chicken and rice but I have mixed it up with lamb before. It's always perfect. Whenever I'm in NY, I pick up extra plates to travel back home with me. My love for halal cart knows no bounds. And, like everyone says, get that extra white sauce! It's the game changer.
Seriously, where else can you get lunch for $6 in New York City? This place right here! ?While there are many imposters claiming to be the original or different, no other Halal cart even comes close to these guys! ?You can easily spot these guys from the next block. ?There's always a line of at least 20 people waiting, all the time at any time of day! Just note that during the day, they are on the SE corner of 53rd & 6th. At night, they're on the SW corner. ?Also note that they wear Yellow Sweatshirts that Say "Halal Guys". You wouldn't want to eat at the wrong cart, would you now? So what makes this place so good? Two words: Chicken and Rice Platter! Dassit! I honesty don't know what they put it in it, but it's just as addicting as crack. Pretty hard to say no when you pass by everyday on your way to and from work. ?Oh, and don't forget the white and hot sauce. ?I like a little bit of both worlds. ?Just beware: the red sauce is ridiculously hot. So the next time you see a Halal Cart, just say No and head on over to these guys. You won't regret it!
I have cravings about this place. I always get the chicken/lamb combo and worth the 30 to 45 min wait every time. ?The hot sauce is ridiculous. It comes in a very small container that makes you question if that's enough, but true me, 2 will ruin your mean because it's that spicy. I've never turned down an invite to eat that this place.
No need for a description. ?See others' reviews. ?Just wanted to add to the 5 star ranking. ?Mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm...
With all the fancy schmancy restaurants in Manhattan, this cart is still what I look forward to the most for a dining experience in the city! ?The longs lines move fast and are worth the wait. ?Don't settle for other carts or shorter lines. ?The limited choices make for a perfect mix of outstanding flavor and the white and red (hot!) sauces are absolutely fantastic.
over hyped
Beyond amazing. I had this twice in three days. It's a craving. This is one of my must-haves when I visit New York. And this specific stop with these yellow carts are the best. Get the combo- pita, rice, and both meats. Put on a gripload of the white sauce. These are usually after you've paid and gotten your food. It's hanging off the side of the food truck. Don't miss it! Now, I'm also a big fan of the red hot sauce. But they are NOT kidding. These are one of the spiciest hot sauces I've tasted- and I love hot sauce. I learned it the hard way one time when I was too enthusiastic. It burned my mouth, my eyes started watering and I had to start avoiding the food bits that touched the hot sauce. Which is a bit of a waste of good food. You can grab a soda at another food cart- $1 for a can. FTW!
The best food from a cart in the city from what I've tried, and an incredible value for the amount of food you get for the money. ?Worth the long wait you will probably have. ?However, eating a full plate of this food will not make you feel great, and your morning might not be great afterwards. ?But, hell, it's worth it.
When you have almost 4000 reviews what could I say that hasn't been said?!?! ?It is a few blocks from where I live. The white sauce is awesome. ?The line if beyond crazy for halal. ?It is not a cart, but a series of carts and at $6 a tin, some of the best bargain food there is. ?I like lamb, but the chicken is pretty delicious too.
If you feel the need for street meat, this is the place to go. The hot sauce is lethal, but well worth the pain. ?Make sure you go to the guys with the yellow bags.
Don't settle for the imitators. This is the real deal, best experienced after midnight on the street. Look for the yellow insignia with the lamb in the center. Carts are spread out now so shop for the shortest line.
Is there something wrong with my taste buds or something? Cause I just can't understand why everyone loves this food cart so much. It's tasty, that's for sure. And cheap. But not SO delicious that I would make any special trip to come back. Twice I have had the chicken over rice here, in two very different states of mind. I went once when I was stumbling drunk in January, and STILL thought it was just okay. I thought perhaps my lack of sobriety caused me to misjudge. So I returned again in August on another trip in New York to give it another chance. Sober this time, I still declare the same opinion - pretty good, just okay. I almost want to give it a third chance to have the same a-ha! moment as everyone else is having. Maybe I have to perfect the white sauce to hot sauce ratio or something. Anyways, I'll give this food cart a solid three.
cheap, fresh, a lot of food for your $6!! ?Guys are super friendly and nice. ?Worth waiting on the long line.
Pretty good if you don't expect too much from the hype. I like that they're open until 4AM although I wish they opened even longer (4AM isn't that late for a night owl). It's all about the white sauce, and the red sauce is really spicy such that I just put in a few drops. Okay, maybe a bit more than that. But a neat thing to do is to ask to get it "to go" every time so that they give you some extra sauce containers for later (you can use it with other food). You can then use the sauce bottles to put on some sauce to eat right away.
Absolutely outstanding. I usually go here around 2-4am on weekend nights, and though the lines are long, the Chicken and Rice is phenomenal. A fantastic meal for $6, what's not to like?
I used to really enjoy meals from this truck but I stopped eating there after I found a body hair in my food.
I love Halal chicken and rice. These guys are the most popular ones and the quality of their food does seem better than others I've tried. Make sure to add the white sauce or spicy sauce if you can handle it. It does get spicy. I always take some back home whenever I visit NY. If you pass by late at night be prepared to make a line that at times goes around the block, no lie.
Oh man, I just love the Halal Guys. ? I've heard a lot of speak about the chicken and rice, but in my opinion, the lamb and rice with white AND red sauce is the way to go. ?We've stood in line at 1am, on a Sunday night, in the middle of winter for this - and it's still worth the wait. Be ready before you get to the front of the line with what you want to order - they keep things moving! ?And beware the imposters on every other street corner!
OMG!!! Had heard so much about this food cart... thought would be the best chicken over rice I would ever taste... Alas!!! it was the exact opposite... I am amazed how it got such good reviews from so many people??? May be only when you are drunk and come here at like 2 am, you may like it because their hot sauce is dangerously hot and spicy... But, if you are planning to try NYC's best cart food... please do not try it if you are sober or during the normal hours. I have tried better cart foods than this... Try ?the chicken over rice from outside the Rego Park Mall, Queens NY It is just over hyped... Please support the ones that are really good, not these publicized ones
$6 for a whole container stuffed with rice and your choice of chicken, lamb, combo?! Awesome!! White sauce is super delicious and spicy sauce is good, too. But be careful not to pour too much of the red - even my friends who love spicy.. say that it is SUPER spicy so if it's your first time, try a little just to be safe instead of dropping the whole thing in there. Lines are usually super long but so worth it for $6! You def get ?full from this. I usually split it with another friend. The Halal Guys are friendly/professional and super efficient with time. They are very dedicated and I hear they were out there even during the hurricane last year! Now.. that's hard-core! Keep up the good work, you guys!!!
With over 4,000 great reviews, this food cart doesn't need another. ?But think about it people, there is a reason this halal cart usually has a line of 15 to 30 people while the other cart next to it never has more than1 customer at a time. ?When it comes to halal carts, there is a difference. ? This one is amazing. I've tried all the options here and they are all amazing.
I've gotten Halal Guys way more times than I can count. The long line moves fast, they're generous with the white sauce (no dirty jokes people...what is it called?), and it's a lot of food for $5-$6 (they use to give discounts to some Midtown employees, don't know if they still do). There have been a few time I'm in Midtown pretty late and I grabbed it to take home. Bonus it actually stays warm. I pretend I'm being healthier than just grabbing something at the bodega. I wouldn't make a special trip for it, but it's a solid 3 star meal if you're looking for something convenient in Midtown. Plus it's nice to take up to Central Park.
Cannot go wrong with Halal Guys. ?Their Chicken/Rice with spicy sauce is great. ?Just be careful with the spicy sauce because it is HOT.
So I worked nearby over the summer and I had the fortune of dragging my ass out of the office at 11pm looking for food to eat on a regular basis. The Halal Guys were there to save the day. The unconventional plate setup is certainly different from most halal food trucks around the city, but the portion is unparalleled. Occasionally, I would thank the divine for granting us their meaty presence. Would be great if they sell beer too...
YUM YUM YUM. That's all I gotta say
I don't think anyone understands my love for the Halal guys. They offer the best food there ever is on this planet. I don't always stop by Manhattan but when I do I HAVE to get the chicken over rice from here. It's a great portion for only $6. what more can someone ask for. They also have the hottest hot sauce I ever had and I love it. I prefer both the white sauce(I'm not sure what it is) and the hot sauce together over my food. I have yet to try the other dishes from them but I have all the time in the world for that. I suggest everyone to try them at least once, I know the line is long but it is worth the wait, trust me. ps. there are other food carts around the area that impersonates them, so don't fall for it. Make sure you're going to the right one.
Unbelievable food..best beef,chicken wrap with flavorful sauces..I cant believe a food cart outdoing so many fine dining restaurant in 5 mins..I would never miss a visit to this place if I am in nyc
Saut?ed ground meat over yellow rice with a side of lettuce and the two sauces. ?I was stunned for a moment until the aromatic whiff from my food container beckoned me to take my first bite. ?WOW! ?It was so unique, so tasty, so spicy (not as in hot spicy...but as in flavorful spicy). ?The meat was tender. ?Clearly marinated and then cooked in a wonderful blend of spices. ?I got hints of cinnamon, coriander, cumin and much much more. ?Once you start eating this stuff, you will find that you cannot stop. ?How simple in appearance and presentation, and yet how dynamite to taste! ? The red sauce is quite spicy...so be careful with how much you use. ?The white sauce is calming with its creamy texture. ?I believe it is made with sour cream, yogurt with a dash of vinegar, salt and pepper. ? It was the perfect complement to the dish.
SO GOOD. nom Came here on a late Monday night with no line, the cart sitting unassumingly on the corner. Split a chicken and rice plate with a friend. $6/2 = $3 filling dinner, YAY. And I don't even like chicken!
I cannot explain in words how much i am in love with this place. Granted, it may not be the finest chicken and rice NY has to offer. However, it is probably the best halal cart NY has to offer. It's CHEAP, DELICIOUS, and PERFECT for your late night hunger calls. The white sauce complements the dish well and the hot sauce is enough to warm you up during the cold winter. Also, the proportion is great for just $7.
Say what you will about Street Meat, but don't you dare insult this infamous halal. It's not classy. There's no seating. But it is cheap and delicious. When you hear someone say "chicken and rice cart" they are talking about this cart, no matter how many other halal carts you see. You'll know you're at the right place when you see a line forming around the block around 7pm (that's when it first opens). Anyone else there earlier or across the street is an imposter! Get the chicken and rice with LOADS of white sauce. I don't know what it's made of, but it's addicting. More than enough food for 2 people or 2 meals.
This place is a jewel. Super good and super cheap, enough to fill two bellies. I found both meats to be good but the lamb was my favorite, the creamy yogurt ranch sauce is awesome on the meal. The hot sauce is SUPER HOT but oh so good. 5 Stars because both times we came here, the group already had dinner and still thought the food was delicious. So delicious some of us over indulged and could not sleep after lol. This is a must try. Hint: So the guys running this cart said the other ones are all the same, just look for the yellow shirts that say "we are different, Halal Guys" So one of us asked why does everyone come here and wait the long lines... Classic answer.... "People just like to wait..."
This place easily tops the list of the best street food in the world, and has a fine shot at the best food in the world in any category. ?The sauces applied by default are rather dull, but there are spicier options among the squeeze bottles 'round the corner.
4.5* For $6, not sure how you can find fault in a ginormous platter of tender, properly seasoned lamb and poultry set atop bright orange grains of perfectly cooked rice. Only real flaw is that the much-ballyhooed white sauce is just good ranch dressing. It goes well with the side of iceberg lettuce, but there are much better Mideast white sauces out there, e.g. Lebanese toum (garlic sauce). That said, it does combine marvelously with the sadistic-yet-delicious hot sauce. Overall, a win that deserves the hype.
My husband and I have been diehard fans of this food cart for years!! Absolute favorite late-night hot spot. The lamb gyros plate is by far, the BEST item to get here. I truly believe the secret ingredients in the gyros meat are two pinches of magic and a teaspoon of happiness. HOW DO THEY DO IT?? Each plate consists of meat, rice, and salad. Feel free to ask for half salad/half rice for a slightly healthier version, otherwise they usually include more rice than salad. Also, two people can (and probably should) split one plate. The portion is HUGE. Tip: The red hot sauce they include is HOT. Like an 8 on a scale of 10. I tend to dip my fork in the sauce cup and then poke it in different parts of my plate. A little goes a looooong way.
You get your money's worth here. Forget fast food. This is faster and probably healthier than anything you could get at a pick up window. It's only six dollars and you get what is in my mind, the most modern day iconic street food in the east coast. Bourdain praises street food and even comedian Jo Koy had a skit on this place. This is also the only place I know that ANYONE can find drunk. I'd say go there at 11 when the lines are okay. From 1230 am and on it gets packed because of all the club goers looking for that oh so perfect drunk meal (guilty). I have fond memories of paying random trips here out of bordem at home in jersey during the summer. 53rd and 6th will always have a soft spot in my heart
DELICIOUS. ?Took off a star for the extremely LONGGGG lines. ?However, it IS worth it. ?GET THE WHITE SAUCE. ?You will regret it if you don't. ?Also, I don't really care for the pita, the lamb, white sauce, lettuce, and rice does it all for mee! ?Too bad nothing in Queens compares to this one.
Best drunk food after a happy hour with co-workers that went on a bit too long...
great after alot of booze!
halal on 53rd and 6th is the most exciting meal in nyc. it is the most extreme in every way; it is the biggest, (the portion is well over one pound of food), the tastiest (no need to add salt to this shit), the spiciest (you add enough hot sauce and your mouth will be on FUCKING FIRE), the richest (that white sauce is just pure fat, and you need a lot of it to soak down to the bottom of the rice), the most unhealthy, (i'd estimate a plate of halal is pushing two thousand calories, depending on how much white sauce you use), it will get you the SICKEST (after a plate of this stuff with enough hot and white sauce you WILL spend the entire next day on the toilet), and the cheapest (at only six bucks a plate). no matter how you swing, it, 53rd and 6th is the most extreme meal in NYC. rumor has it a man was actually murdered for cutting in line once. just sayin.
Good for your buck food from a food vendor. My boyfriend and I split a mixed gyro and chicken over rice. Cost us $6.00! ?Wahoo! 6 bucks for dinner for 2 :) ?We were both satisfied afterwards too. White sauce was pretty good. ?Wasn't greasy as others have said. The only thing I don't get is that there were two Halal Carts across from each other but one had a line and the other didn't. ?It looked like they were exactly the same?
Great Halal! Always a long line but totally worth the wait.. and there is more than enough food! Get the combo!
All my friends RAVE about how this is a NYC must-try... Lines are pretty long and food was okay. It's one of those things you kind of have to try and check off your bucket list. I recommend you order the white sauce and spicy red sauce on the side so your food doesn't get soggy. There isn't really a place to sit and eat near the cart.
amazinggggggg
Yay!
I think everybody else has said it all. Chicken and rice. Don't be fooled by the imitators at the other street corner! It's actually a ton of food in a little tin tray, so if you're a tourist eating your way through NYC, I'd say share it with a friend as you'll be eating all day.
It has been a while since I visited New York, but when I think of New York food-wise, my tastebuds fondly remember this specific halal cart. I stayed at the hotel adjacent to this food cart. Before eating there, I figured it must be THAT GOOD for there to have such a looooong line. When I looked out the window and saw that the line wasn't that long, I jumped in at the chance to finally try it out. It did not disappoint! I ordered the popular dish, which consisted of gyro meat, basmati rice with some spices, and that delicious white sauce (tahini but not? I don't know, but it's good!). The portions were sooooo generous, I had enough for two meals! There have been many times where I have tried to find food similar to that in LA and SF/Bay Area, and there is nothing that comes close to this food cart. Also, during my visit to NYC, I have tried other food carts and nothing really comes close to this. That particular location of that food cart must be special. It's like Sedona for food carts. LOL :P My tastebuds are looking forward to patronize this place very soon!
best late night drunk food stop ever !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! seriously it is. What makes it even more amazing is you usually get so much food you have some left over for the morning.
No place like this Halal cart to end a drunken night!
Good food but the guys tried to hit on me
I love this place. ?The line is very long but it moves very fast! ?I rec this place for late night but be prepared to find a restroom after ASAP!!
After having their chicken rice once, I'm totally hooked! It's the type of dish that you find yourself craving on late nights... wonderful food, very fast service. I wish they'd open a branch closer to me!
I finally had a chance to visit this location one night with a friend and have been coming back ever since. Large tins of chicken over rice, gyro over rice, or half/half combos for six bucks. Pack to stay or go. Very fresh, very tender meats. The guys even have their own bags! Keep in mind there are tons of tourists lurking about here.That would be the only con against it. I can say that cause I live here.
Long queue. Halal Guys are really popular (everyone goes, not just people who only eat halal food). Simple food. Choose lamb or chicken. It's chopped fine but tastes like what it is stated to be. White sauce is delicious and red sauce *much* spicier and hotter than you are used to. Please trust that your first time, go light on the red sauce and then build your tolerance for more red sauce as it suits your palate. Service is attentive and very fast. Watch the quick exchange of green. Blink! Difference prices at different times of day, but only by one or two dollars. Halal Guys alone is a reason to sit outside and enjoy this section of Manhattan on a sunny day. Do not miss Halal Guys! A true New York experience.
Definitely an NYC must!! I have to admit I was a bit skeptical at first because the lines are SO long and I hate waiting in long lines. But the good news is that the lines move super fast and their food really does live up to it's hype! Also, you can't beat the $6 plate with huge portions.
No complaints, it was amazing.. The pita was so soft and warm, chicken & gyro meat perfectly seasoned. The guys are super friendly and the best part is that it was only $4.
Great rice and sauces, and you get a ton of food for your money. ? The chicken itself is way too dry, and the gyro meat is chopped into oblivion. ?It is like salty sand. ? And never wait on the huge line - they have a cart on 7th ave with literally no wait, same dry chicken, monster portions and delicious sauces. ?I can see how this is a late/drunk night favorite as that is when quantity and sauce play key roles in any notable dining experience.
This place is awesome for street food. We got here after a broadway show and were just in the mood for something cheap and good. We definitely got it. They seemed to have multiple stands within a 3 block radius but the other ones were closing when we got there so we stood on a line that looked long, but only took us 5 minutes to get our food. It was literally under 10 seconds between ordering and having the food in our hand. The shredded chicken was amazing. The lamb was great too. And the hot sauce? For once, it lived up to the hotness level. Whew, I started to hiccup and it burned my mouth for the next 20 minutes. I could barely walk. If there were only some seating around. You'll be left sitting on the edge of an infinity fountain if you're lucky to get a seat there.
this is the only halal food I'll eat
I am convinced these guys are coasting on reputation and tourists reading these reviews and going to them. As evidence for the tourist claim, the guy in front of me in line had to ask what falafel is. I've never heard a more flyover country question in my life. I love me some gyro and falafel, and I'd read the reviews of these guys, so when I saw them after leaving MOMA I decided to grab some falafel. The line, as expected, was very long. I thought "oh yeah, they're popular, this is a good sign." There were three guys manning the stand, the most I've ever seen in one cart before. After five minutes of standing in line in the cold and not moving my girlfriend went up to see what was going on. One guy was making food (very slowly), two guys were just standing there doing nothing (it turns out one of them takes the money, idk what the third guy is for). They were seriously the slowest food cart I've ever seen. I finally got my falafel, and it was just really sub par. It was cold, which, I mean, how fucking hard is it to keep some falafel warm? It was hard, greasy, and sour. I've never had sour falafel before. I don't know how you can even make it like that. The one upside is it was cheap, but so is every other gyro-and-falafel cart in the city. So, yeah, completely over rated, terrible, will never go back. Bad food, slow service, pretty sure they're just a tourist trap. Edit: Update: It is now the day after we ate there, and my girlfriend has food poisoning. Hardcore diarrhea, all that fun stuff. Now, we also ate at a tex mex place yesterday, and it might be that, or something else entirely, but yeah. Not a good sign.
THIS is the only halal you want to get in NY. TRUST ME. They are truly amazing and the price is too good to beat. Chicken, rice, lettuce, pita...ahh so delicious. Make sure you get the white dressing and a side of the hot sauce (warning super spicy). I can't even write a proper yelp review because nothing can do this little cart justice. I'll wait in line even in the dropping temperatures just to get my halal fix. The long line goes by quickly and totally worth the wait.
use to be much better. not really sure what happened. Maybe my taste buds have gotten use to it. Either way im giving it 4 stars instead of 5. I feel like its hard to be perfect.
What is halal? I do not know and I have never heard of it but I had to try it while I was in NY due to so many good reviews on yelp. After spending a whole day at the Central Park, we walked to the corner of 53rd and 6th. There were actually 4 halal carts with the same logo so I had to ask which one was the popular one. ?It's the one on southwest corner of 53rd and 6th. ?But it was kind of confusing because they were all wearing a same uniform. So it's chicken and lamb meat over orange rice and lettuce served with pita bread and special white sauce and hot sauce. ? At first my hubby and I thought eh? this is it? What's so special about a chicken bowl? As soon as we took the first bite, we knew why it was so famous! It was soooooo freakin' good!!!!!! It was so good that we ended up going back before we flew back home. I wish they would open one in So. Cal too!
Why making your head and wallets hurts when it comes to dinner? Just 6 bucks and let it surprise your appetite, a definitely can't miss to those people travels to New York City and the New Yorkers!
Went here for the first time for a post-clubbing drunk grub and been a fan ever since! I love love loveeee the rice and the lamb meat is soooo tender. Pita bread is awesome and my gawd that white sauce! I could bathe in it... It is greasy so it's THE perfect drunk food! They open 365 days a year, no rain, thunder, storm, snow or snowstorm will ever stop them from opening, and THAT is dedication. I was skeptical with their "We are different" slogan at first but now after tasting many other halal carts, The Halal Guys IS different.
Don't underestimate the hot sauce. I usually eat really spicy food and adding three of the hot sauce containers to my gyro over rice was overkill. This review if for my fourth time here and I feel like the quality of the food has gone down a little. This could be because I know what to expect and waiting in line for 20 mins in the cold on a Saturday bother me. This halal cart is still a great deal when you consider the guy down the street on 5th ave that sells just a hot hot for $5. I can get a whole plate here for $6.
The chicken-lamb combo is incredible! At $6 a meal that is a real bargain worthwhile the wait. I came twice and each time the lines were long. But when the food is good you have to wait. Congrats Halal Guys! I will definitely come back for more before ?the end of my vacations in NY.
Really good chicken over rice. To be honest I didn't find it that much different compared to the regular food carts, but the portions are larger and I may have been psychologically induced to think that the food was overall fresher and better prepared. The line however, was super super super long. Honestly was not worth the wait given that I very well may have been psychologically induced into believing that the food was better, and the extra long time spent waiting for the incremental increase in food was not worth it. Overall 4 stars though because I personally love halal carts--this place is just a small sliver above the average.
Our first and last meal in NYC! ?We walked 10 + blocks in brutal cold weather for their food. ?Why? ?Its only $6, its hot and filling and their hot red sauce kick ass!!!
This is by far the best street meat in the city. Get the chicken and lamb (gyro) with white sauce and hot sauce. The hot sauce is no joke when it comes to heat but it is also extremely flavorful. The white sauce tempers it nicely. For $6 you get a gigantic plate full of delicious food that has is head and shoulders above other carts in the city.
Reliably good Halal food. The chicken's definitely better quality, and the constant line of people ordering food from this place ensures that the food's freshly cooked. Also can't beat the price, despite the recent increase to $6 a plate.
Really mixed feelings about this vendor. Almost every week, me and a few friends used to pile into a car and drive from our suburban northern NJ college to 53rd and 6th on a random weeknight. At some point though, maybe after our 45th visit, I just hit a wall. I haven't had chicken and rice in at least 4 years and I don't think I'll be getting that craving any time soon. I still like the white sauce, but I feel like the quality of the food has declined. Whenever I'm in the area I just end up getting Kati Rolls from the Biriyani Cart instead.
9 years ago this place was a 10 out of 5 on the scale but it has dropped in quality. The fame got to the point where the quality of lamb and chicken is just plain poor. For those who are interested in calories its about 2400 in just one platter. They now have 3 other carts, one on the other side of 6th avenue, one down the block on 52nd, and one on 53rd and 7th. If you're in Manhattan you'll see the massive line across the Hilton Hotel for this place, for some reason people like that one even though the other carts are from the same company. Some advice, if you have a car, get onto LI and head to Hillside avenue and Homelawn avenue down the road from St. Johns or go to Jackson Heights. The rice, the chicken/meat are muchhh better and its the same price.
Ohh, snap! What more can be said here, everything has its time. For example: Valspeak Beanie Babies Slap Bracelets Push/Ring Pops Halal Carts Have you ever ate this during the day? That lamb, chicken over rice combo destroys stomachs around the world. Save it for when your drinking. But when I do get the "lamb- N- rice truck," I get the lamb extra crispy, on a pita it's more contained easier to manage. I think I am trying to create a Kati roll in the end. might as well go to Kati Roll Co.
It's fucking awesome.
This was my favorite food stop out of all the tasty and delicious restaurants I had the pleasure exploring in the great city of New York. And damn, I had a lot of different amazing foods during my week in New York. There is just something about the all the flavors combining in one. The white sauce, the lamb, the chicken, the salad, the RICE, and more white sauce! It was sooo perfect. ?And all for $6!!! WOW My gf said that the rice looked like shredded cheddar cheese, which it does. Anyone know if they actually add cheese for flavor? I had this 2 times during our 6 day stay in NY. I should have gone at least 3 times. :/
Great food, expecto long lines but worth it! wouldnt eat at any other Halal cart in the city
Hands down best halal in the city. ?The reviews, multiple carts and long lines don't lie. ?I like to go to their cart on 53rd and 7th, because it's a cart most people don't realize they setup over there, and on late nights there's no lines. Chicken and Lamb combo (or just COMBO for short) is the way to go. ?Extra white sauce, and for me a lil extra hot sauce. ?Caution with the hot sauce. ?I LOVE hot foods\sauces, but this stuff hits. ?Mix it all up into one big garbage plate, and your life shall be spared after a hard night of drinking. ? If you don't want all that a plate has to offer, just order a combo gyro w rice...yeaaa... It's a food cart, and there's not much to explain. ?Pretty straight forward. ?Just go see what all the hype is about. ?It's only $6 for a big @$$ plate of food. ?You can't go wrong.
fantastic food and they give you tons of sauce in containers
really delicious after a night out.
Lets be honest, this is a misnomer. Anyone familiar with this area knows that there are numerous carts occupying each and every corner on 53rd and 6th. Personally, I like the guy who is on the Southwest corner during daylight hours. The Halal Guys, who are there on both southern corners during the evening are pretty banging too. Extra white extra red.
Chicken and rice with plenty of white yogurt sauce! We've been in NYC for a week now, went to some great restaurants all over the city, but this was the best! Don't spend $200 on a fancy meal in a pretentious restaurant.. ?We cancelled our reservations after reading the reviews on here and stood in line for 15 minutes. Spent $12 for two huge tins of food. Ate at the fountain and it was amazing. Like someone mentioned before.. ?If you see a long line in NYC, get in it. People around here don't have time for crap. Ask questions later! :).
Unbelievable.
not at good as it used to be, but still one of the best late night drunken things to eat.
Good but overrated. ?I mean, with so many Halal carts around NYC, I don't think any one is worth a 30 minute wait. ?The hot sauce is as spicy as it gets so I'll give them that. ?Regarding the food itself, it's beyond overcooked. ?The chicken is so dry that you need the white sauce to rehydrate it. That said, when it's late night and you're drunk, it's good for a fix.
Eghhh if you're a vegetarian. Every time I go there, my falafel is cold.. And the "white sauce" is mayo based (ewww). However, you do get a lot of food for $6. If you want better tasting halal for the same price, try Sammys (or Sammays?) on w 4th and 6th.
Okay, so you know how people hype up certain places, and you end up going there and think that it's just alright? For this place, THE HYPE IS FOR REAL!!! ?This place is AMAZING! ?I mean, $6 and I get a LOADED plate of perfectly cooked, tender chicken, nicely seasoned rice, fresh lettuce and tomato to cut through the richness of the meat and OH THAT WHITE SAUCE!!! WHAT THE !?!?!?!?????!! ?I mean WHAT DO THEY PUT IN THAT SAUCE??? SOOOOOO GOOD. ?Oh man... If only my stomach were bigger, haha...
Why you need to go out of your way to come try Halal Cart: 1. Open LATE 2. Best meat ever 3. It's cheap 4. It's so good we took a cab here 5. Large portions 6. 3,800 reviews and counting in a city that doesn't take much time to write Yelp reviews. And it receives 4.5 stars!!!! Don't be confused by the imitations, look for the guy in the bright tshirt.
I subtracted a star for how much my stomach hates me after eating this at 4am while straight up wasted. Still recovering from this 2000 calorie bowl of deliciousness. However, if you do have drunchies, there is no better place to go than here. While sober me seldom remembers what it tastes like, drunk me definitely loves this place. Make sure you don't overdose on that spicy sauce though. That stuff is lethal. My friend wouldn't believe it and doused his in spicy sauce, and proceeded to take 4 bites before he ran down the street and bought a gallon of milk and chugged it all. Also on a side note: I had it while sober after a long run in central park and it was still pretty darn good, but definitely not close to being as good while drunk. Sober me couldn't finish the bowl out of health-consciousness, which overall is probably better for me anyways =)
love it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I've only had this one other time and it was at Sac State. Didn't really like it, but I might try it again because I really liked this place! There are a lot of these trucks but find the one with the longest line, that one is apparently the most popular. I don't eat lamb, but I heard the lamb is most tender and soft. The chicken gets a lot more dried if you wait till the next day, but I heard the lamb isn't as bad. I ate it fresh and it was really good. Chicken is really flavorful and isn't dried out. Comes with a ranch type of sauce and this red sauce. The red sauce is reallyyyy spicy, just use a little! The service is prompt too. One guy collects the money and you wait to get your food. Everyone seems happy and polite.
There are lots of halal carts in manhattan, but I guess this is THE halal cart and I can see the reason why. I wasn't too hungry so I shared a chicken over rice with my bf. I've eaten here the last time I was in NYC, but it was my bf's first time and he was blown away. The chicken is really tender with great flavor, but what really sets everything over the edge is the combinations of all flavors. There's the amazing protein, then the rice to ground everything, the lettuce to add the needed crisp and freshness, topped off with the white sauce that is amazing. All the elements are there to create a wonderful harmony. Also, if you like your food spicy, they have hot sauce that's actually spicy! Even though I wasn't that hungry, I ended up chowing down like mad. Still, it was enough food for both of us as a late dinner. If we were both starving, we'd probably want our own, but I'm sure two small girls can share this and be full. Whatever the case, $6 for this awesome meal is a good deal! There's lots of buildings around here that have public seating, so grab a spot for a late night snack.
They are an institution known for big portions and mouth-watering white sauce. To me, Halal Guys is like the McDonald's of Halal.
Long lines should talk for themselves this place has become a must visit for us when we go to the city. There are times when we drove two hours just to have this yum..
Just one of the best halal guys ever. Its tasty, its made on the spot, the meat tastes great, the white sauce is located on the side for you to get as much as you want! The downside of this place is rhe ridiculous length of the line here. Its the worse to wait on those long lines ?on cold days but they're as quick as possible. Love going to these guys on our nights in the city.
On a cold rainy day in New York my partner tells me we are definitely going to Halal guys. ? Grudgingly I follow and walk the 30 minutes and then wait in line for a chicken plate. Very large portions for the money, we took the sauces on the side to ensure we could get it home before it was soggy. ? ? Well this time, it was not as good as the first time my partner had it. ? So we tried again the next day. ? ?After a similar trek and a similar trial we both concluded that the first time was awesome but the next two were just ok. ? It has been a year since the first time and this time so things may have changed. ?Perhaps the cold walk has heightened our taste buds.
Is it worth the wait? ?Certainly. ?By the time you wait, maybe 30 minutes, you will be salivating because heaps of meat just makes you do that. ?Anything that's thrown your way will be delicious at that point but Halal Guys doesn't disappoint. Thing is, people will swear by these guys. ?This specific cart. ?They have other carts across the street. ?At different times of day. ?I think they even had a brick and mortar store now. ?It's kind of pointless to wait unless you want to get drunk at a club, wander to midtown in a drunken stupor, hang out with bros for 30 minutes or more in the numbing cold of sweltering heat, and gorge yourself on delicious calorie laden heart attack inducing food. ?It's an experience but I'll do it maybe once a year at most at this point in my life. Even the 'knockoff' halal cart is good. ?It's almost exactly the same. ?I don't mind it. ?The lines are so much shorter... in other words, NONE. ?Couldn't really tell the difference. But huge pet peeve with the midtown halal cart craze is that their chicken meat is shredded to shit. ?It's fucking confetti by the time they're done pulverizing it. ?Might as well tip the cart over to make a beach because that's what it looks like. ?The pieces are so damn tiny that no matter what quality of chicken you throw at it it'll come out at the same time. ?Great, maybe now that's there's a bunch those bro clubbers can get a tan while waiting and not get in your face all the time--both the overtanned guidos and pale finance tools. Do it once, and never again.
Excellent for what it is...that being said, this is an overwhelming amount of food. White sauce is a bit overhyped (basically ranch dressing?) but the hot sauce is terrifyingly good--Get ready for heartburn!
75% of the reviews are from ppl who are DRUNK of their asses when the eat at this cart!! if you crave food at 3 AM in the morning when you are so DRUNK that you will put anything in your stomach, sure this food tastes AMAZING!!! I got food from them in my Rightful conscious mind cuz there was so much hype about this place...I GOT SICK to MY STOMACH the NEXT DAY !! And mind you, i have eaten at my carts in city. This place is definitely ?overrated...But if you are one of those who get caught in the hype like i did and want to try it out, GO for it...Be ready to get sick though !
I was worried that the quality didn't live up to the hype but it did. ?The workers were very nice, patient and quick. ?I look forward to going back.
Amazing! The wait is totally worth it. For $6 you get a combination plate which consists of chicken and gyro with rice, pita and salad. The hot sauce is HOT so be very careful. The white sauce is CRACK! Grab a few extra. It's just that good. ?I can eat this all day.
Not ONE, but TWO nights in a row! $6 per plate. Still love the chicken/lamb combo. Really nice guys just servin' their tasty creation.
My girlfriend came into town last September, and she told me of the wonderful halal food she had from a cart last time she was in NYC. ?After a stimulating evening at the MoMA, we went to look for some halal food and found this place. ?I ordered a "lamb" gyro sandwich and she the chicken-and-rice platter. I was hooked. ?I'm not a fan of yoghurt sauce nor mayonnaise, so I skipped the "white sauce" and went straight for the hot sauce. ?The reviewers who say the hot sauce is fiery aren't joking. ?When I want hot food I want it to be painful, to push the boundaries of what is and isn't easy eating -- and the hot sauce here certainly does that. ?This is junky food, something you would feel guilty to crave, but it's so good that you can't resist. I'd come back to this halal cart every once in a while afterwards. ?Sometimes there would be a line. ?Sometimes it would be empty. ?Sometimes the spot would have ?"New York's Best Halal Food", other times it would have "The Halal Guys". ?I didn't think twice of it. Today was a slow day at work, so I ended up doing a lot of research on street food. ?These guys came up again. ?I'd never have guessed The Halal Guys were the NYC legend Yelp, and the street food scene in general, make them out to be. ?To me they were just where I went when I was in the mood for some "lamb". Having had The Halal Guys as well as the "impostor" truck, here's what I'd say about their similarities and differences: -- The impostor truck has chunkier meat. ?I kind of like that, it looks and feels more "real" and less "fake". -- The impostor truck doesn't have as good hot sauce. ?You need to go to the Halal Guys for the good mouth-burning stuff. ?Those that like the white sauce say the Halal Guys shine in that too. -- There are two trucks called the Halal Guys. ?My research shows they serve the same food. ?I have eaten at both and I agree. ?Usually one has a line and one doesn't. ? Overall, I'd say that the original Halal Guys and the "impostor" NY's Best Halal Food are both pretty good. ?If you come to this intersection often enough they're essentially interchangeable. ?If you are a tourist or otherwise have only one chance to savor this, do yourself a favor and go to the original truck. ?You will know it's the original if the slogan is "We Are Different".
When you go to NYC..this is the go to stop! I'm sure everyone has heard of this place by now but this place is so simple yet so cheap!!! They're open til 4 am so it is perfect for a nigh owl like me. On my recent trip to NYC i think I hate here 3 times and on my last night I bought 8 orders and packed it in my suitcase to bring back home. I get the combination. It has the chicken and the lamb. Their lamb is so good. I drench it in the white sauce and hot sauce. The hot sauce is ridiculously spicy though so you might want to add that with caution. This place is just good, cheap, and simple. Must go to place in NYC!
I had no idea what I was getting myself into when I walked up to the Halal Guys cart. You get to choose what type of protein (lamb or chicken or both) that you want and it comes with a generous portion of rice, lettuce, and pita bread. You HAVE to get their white sauce, BBQ sauce, and their spicy sauce (but I have to warn you, a little goes a LONG WAY)! Mix it all together and you'll be in Halal Heaven (is there such a thing?!) I am utterly in love with that cart, but don't be fooled by the other cart imposters wearing yellow hoodies. Halal Guys cart are the OG's!
Soo good...either drunk or sober. You must give it a try! 6 bucks for a lot of food! Make sure to lather a lot of white sauce on top, and be careful with the spicy sauce! There's always a decent sized line during any time of the day.
Say what you want about street meat, but this place is the real deal! ? Hands down the best deal in NYC. ?6 bucks for a platter of chicken, lamb, rice, lettuce, and pita bread thats good for at least 2 meals. ?Be sure to get the combo platter and DROWN IT in white sauce. ? Perfect place for food after a long night out; I've had it both drunk and sober and it alway hits the spot!
I've heard so many things about Halal Cart, so my friends and I gave it a visit after visiting the MoMA. The Dish: I got the Chicken and Rice ($6). For the price, it's good. Take away the price, the actual food is all right. I wasn't impressed and it didn't really match expectations at all. If I was starving and walked past it, I would get it. Otherwise, I wouldn't go out of my way for it. Also, it's quite dirty. I know it's street food and all, but their sauce packets should at least be sanitary, right? It was greasy and unappealing. Try it, but there's better eats in New York.
Delicious! The white sauce is like crack; I'm so addicted. They have 2 carts across the street from each other so you can cart hop if one cart has a longer line than the other.
I think this is a must stop for anybody visiting Manhattan. I got the lamb on rice. SOOOO good and for only $6. I think it's the best bargain in NY. The plate was huge. Be careful with the hot sauce. I normally can take some pretty spice food. It kicked my butt. Plus, you know it's good food when there's ALWAYS a line, even at 4am.
Can't go wrong. Be ware of the other carts taking their spot...
This is as good as it gets!!! i have been coming here for years and i love it. This place is famous and its so worth checking out. You can come here at 3am and i bet you there will be a line of by the truck. BEST PLATTERS HANDS DOWN. just get a mixed platter (lamb and chicken)... and feast and dont forget to drown it in white sauce cause it is amazing
I highly recommend! SO delicious! Although the line is typically long you'll get to the front of the line quickly since the Halal Guys are super efficient. Part of that efficiency, however, requires that customers know what they want when they get up there, so I recommend you have your order and money ready by the time you make it to the front. I love the lamb and rice with plenty of white sauce and a DASH of hot sauce. Their hot sauce is SERIOUS so be careful putting too much before you've tried it!
GET THE MIX COMBO WITH CHICKEN AND LAMB, and don't forget the white, bbq, and hot sauce. You can thank me later.
I've walked past this place many times and am always amazed at how long the line is, no matter what time I walk past it. ?Today I bit the bullet and waited. ?It moved really quickly (10 minutes) and by the time I got back to the office and opened the bag, the aroma came out and I was in heaven. ?Really, really delicious, solid falafel and chicken. ?I can't wait to go back again. For $6 you can't beat it.
I don't think I'm really a street meat kinda girl but after 4 years of living in NYC I figured it was time to try it. While this might make me sound like a street meat snob, if I'm going to try it I want the best of the best. I didn't have to wait more than 10 minutes, and after trying it I definitely wouldn't wait more than that for it. I didn't love it, but also didn't think it was terrible. The meat and rice were decent (I think I got lamb but it was quite a while ago), ?as was the white sauce. I don't know that I ever need to eat it again, but I'm happy I tried it.
This is where it's at! All day everyday the food here is so good, I guess it's because you don't expect it to be that good! Such Goodness from a cart? ? Wow! I work in the building right by the cart 1301 and so you know whats for lunch!
This place is the BOMB DOT COM. So the lines are long? GOOD, it's part of the experience :) This is not a fancy pants restaurant, it's a halal cart! Street food just isn't street food without a crowd. I have been here nearly everytime I visit New York City. I usually get the combo for $6 and smother it with white sauce. It is delicious in every sense of the word. ? There's no formal "seating" but there are wooden benches nearby. Womp womp if it's raining, but you can always squat under the stone awning next to Starbucks. Again, part of the experience. If you're thirsty, they have an affiliated drink cart right in front of their cart. It's about the same price for drinks as the 24 hour shop/cafe down the street (in case you're wondering). Pay attention to when the cart is open so you don't make a trip for nothing. It's not a far walk from Times Square either if you want to walk off some of the noms you just scarfed down. Be wary of the fake carts too!
What is the big deal. ?Its just chicken and rice right? ?Well, yes you are right, BUT add that white sauce and then add that red sauce and you got a plate of what I would imagine rainbows to taste like....magical. ?Make sure you don't go crazy on that red sauce though, a friend of mine did and lets just say, I did NOT enjoy being in the same hotel room. ?Don't be fooled by the other carts around the area, this is the one and ONLY one to go to. ?I think I would still grab this if they doubled the price, but maybe just not as often. ?Too bad I only get this when I make a trip to NYC, stupid Boston and lack of 53rd and 6th :(
The thousands of reviews say it all. One tip though: EASY ON THE HOT SAUCE! I love spicy, but this will set your ass on fire!
Love!!! The chicken over rice is sooooo good! A must try. Keep in mind though the chilli is very very spicy but I love it! Just don't put so much or your insides will burn like crazy :D
It's a lot better than the other halal carts I've had before. The best part of this place is that they shred the chicken up a lot for you, and you get to add your own sauces. The red hot sauce is extremely spicy (heads up), but ?remember to mix in the white sauce before leaving or else you'll find yourself sorely disappointed. They have four different locations, but at this specific one, they have two carts prepping and one cart selling. The line moves extremely fast. Don't get confused by the other halal cart that states on the side that they are the original.
You aren't a New Yorker until you've hit up this halal cart. Chicken and Rice with White Sauce. Someone make a rap song out of that. #newyorkproblems
An NYC staple. There's not much to say, these guys do falafel and they do it well. The white sauce is great. Be careful with the hot, it comes in a little container because it packs a serious punch. Be sure to have water near by.
Being a lover and frequent eater of Halal Food, nothing gets me more excited than a trip to the Halal Guys. Without a doubt the best tasting and freshest Halal food in NYC. While the lines can often be up t0 30minutes long, the wait is without a doubt worth it. Both the chicken and meat is made on site and is super succulent and diced to perfection. Not only do they give you a lot of food on both the gyros and platters, but their free white and hot (very, very hot) sauces ?in to go containers is a major plus! Sometimes I even take extra to put on future meals. If you're looking for true, great, new york city halal food, The Halal Guys on 53rd and 6th (on both sides of the street, look for the yellow sweatshirts) are the way to go!!
WOW all i can remember is the red sauce is SO EFFING HOT. ?that's all i can remember about this food. ?I've been to some really good street meat trucks and the red sauce is nowhere near as ridiculous as this place. ?I usually like spicy but this was OVER THE TOP!! ?BE CAREFUL! ?I'm really shocked that such a famous establishment has red sauce on that level. ?You'd think they'd want to tame it for the droves of tourists who stop by and would have no idea what they might be in for. ?Anyway, overall pretty decent but I'll say I've had better from the guy on 26th and madison.
I came all the way from Washington Heights to try the famous chicken and rice. To put it simply, it is epic. It's pretty good without the sauce, but when you add it in, it transforms into something unbelievable. $6 for more food than I could finish. The hot sauce is also quite good, although it was a bit too spicy for my taste.
Good halal food. There was a line at 4PM. I was the fifth person in line, I waited around 10-15 minutes. I ordered a mixed platter. The hot sauce is super spicy, i had to drink a bottle of water after every bite. Nonetheless, it was good and the portion is huge for 6 dollars, especially in Manhattan. I had to throw away half of it, because it was that big!. But I'll be back for more, if I'm around.
The best halal cart in town. ?The best---for realz. ?But you have to go either before 12pm or after 2pm...otherwise the line will lead you around the block.
30 minute wait when i got there at 7.20pm. ?Chicken was pretty good but the gyro was awesome and i don't really like lamb. ?Hot sauce was fantastic. 6 bucks a plate cant beat that
The best halal cart in the city. The queueing sometimes takes a long time, but it's always fun and the lamb over rice is worth to wait. The hot sauce burns my tongue but that one of the delicious part of it. Don't be fooled by the fake "Halal Guys".
The wait is definitely worth it. ?I agree with all of the reviews...this place is great.
I have died and gone to heaven. I LOVE the halal guys. $6 gets you a ton of tasty food. I have been around food trucks my whole life in Los Angeles and San Francisco and while those cities have great food trucks this is my favorite. I went with the mix plate with rice and white sauce. I can't stop thinking about it.
Well, the line of people says it all! ?If you're ever in the city and want to eat "cart food," this is it! It's a large portion for a small price. ?I usually get the lamb gyro (they also have a lamb and chicken) with rice and it's SO good. The chicken, in my opinion, is bland and tasteless, hence why I go for the lamb. The white sauce and hot sauce are delicious and bring all the tastes together. ?YUMMY! I think they have three carts now and the food is pretty consistent at all of them, so choose the one with the smallest line :)
OMG. they sell their sauces now. $12 a bottle. my dream come true!!! fyi the bottles last up to 2-3 weeks if refrigerated. now i can finally stock up on that white sauce magic. :)
Best cart food hands down!!! Had it for the first time years ago and have had it every so often since. In love with the white sauce...they should sell it. If you are visiting New York you can't leave without having chicken and rice from this cart! Delicious comfort food!
Love it!
Friendly fast cheap
Everyone likes Halal the sauces usually bring the dishes together and the prices is what is a great crowd pleaser.
Amazing. Simple, cheap, tasty. This place should be considered a New York City landmark! There isn't another place where you can get more food for this price. Chicken over rice is probably their most popular platter, but don't get me wrong; the chicken and gyro (lamb) mixed plate is just as good as well. All their plates are served with seasoned basmati rice, simple salad, pita bread, and their legendary white sauce. Be careful with the hot sauce though, it is hotter than most others! I definitely recommend this place to anyone in the area for any reason at all; visiting, touring, break from work, etcetera. Best food in NYC.
This cart food may actually be laced with CRACK, yes... it is that good! If you think it's not worth waiting in line for, you are PLAYING YOURSELF! Get in line friends, because this 53rd&6th GEM is so worth it!!! I admittedly do tend to come here after a night out, but have also eaten here completely sober just to grab a cheap dinner :) For $7 (I think?) you get chicken, yellow rice, lettuce, pita and most importantly, WHITE SAUCE. This sauce is absolute madness. It is so delicious I would pay them to know what's in it. No matter who you are, you will (I promise!) enjoy this cheap platter of goodness. The lines here are long because it is uh-maz-ing. (CA$H ONLY!)
Oh how I love this place! The chicken and rice is the best. ?There's plenty of halal carts around New York, but this one is by far the best. The white sauce makes all the difference for me! If you love halal, come to this one and get your fix! So good! It's street food that taste delicious and cheap!
Whenever my wife and I leave a nightclub/lounge/bar and it's 3-4AM, we head straight to this place. ?It's become a bit of a tradition actually. ?The lines are usually long, but they generally have 2-3 carts operating at different corners(same guys) and time goes by pretty quick. ?It's actually pretty entertaining seeing all the drunkards trying to stand up straight at this particular time of day. We generally order a mixed chicken/lamb over rice. ?They'll include salad and pita unless you tell them not too. ?Their bright orange rice is delicious, the chicken is relatively dry and the lamb gyro meat... nothing special. BUT....... spray it with that wonderful white sauce and the most incredible hot sauce that you'll ever taste and it quickly transforms in to heaven. ?I enjoy obnoxiously spicy food, but this hot sauce makes you regret it the next morning.... nevertheless, I still come crawling back :).
SOOOOO GOOD!!!!! I love how they don't cheap out on the spice. It is a must try if you are not a NYer and a must get if you do live in NY. 53rd and 6th baby!
Awesome food stand! I miss this place so much! I had it a few times during my summer in New York. I think this is top 5 of the foods I miss from NY. It's so simple and so delicious. I could swim in their white sauce! Their hot sauce is awesome, but make sure you try it before pouring it all over your food.
Thank you for serving the best $6 meal ever. Chicken and rice can be enjoyed any time of the day, especially since they're open late! Key is to pour that white sauce, go super easy on the red and bbq sauce, if you like. It's great even as leftovers. My 80-something year-old grandma even approved of this as her favorite "american" meal in NYC, so that is quite telling.
This place is soooo good. The white sauce is delicious and addictive. The red sauce is also good but only use a couple drops or you will regret it!
I can not get enough. It's good meat, well made rice and definitely crack in the white sauce. Saying anything more is just a waste of breath. And the price! Good god the price!! :)
Their sauce is awesome
One of my favorite eateries in New York. My friend and I got the Mixed Chicken and Gyro Over Rice with White Sauce. The combination was extremely flavorful and delicious. During my visit in New York, I wanted to go back for a second time which is very unlike me since I love to eat at new places when visiting new cities. But unfortunately, we didn't have enough time. So now I'm just dreaming about it at home...
What can I possibly say that hasn't already been said here 5,000 times... literally 5,000 times. ?Chicken and lamb mix with rice, doused in extra extra white sauce and sprinkles of red sauce. ?Heavenly. Yeah, the waiting in line part sucks, big time. ?But we do it anyway, because it's worth it, and because we must.
I ate at this stand twice during my stay in New York. I tried the lamb & rice and then the lamb & chicken with rice. Both times the food was very reasonably priced, generous portions, delicious, highly flavorful, hot and fresh. I loved both the white and regular red sauces and the hot, red sauce. The white is creamy and yummy. The regular red adds lots of flavor and some heat and the hot red sauce ROCKS!! If you like it 6 out of 10 on the hot scale, this is for you. The regular red is a 2-3 hot. Enjoy!!
No place in New York offers more value than these guys. ?Sure you have to wait a bit. ?Maybe they are in awkward parts of NYC. ?But lamb and chicken on orange rice with white sauce and wake-the-fuck-up spicy red sauce for six bucks, WHAT?! ?And, you can make at least two meals out of one. ?I ate mine all at once. ?Don't judge me. ?It was delicious.
I love falafels. My fav is momouns. But I didn't like the falafels at all here. The service is quick and guy is nice. But not tasty.
This was my first meal in NYC! Oh my goodness!!! I cannot even begin to describe how wonderful the food tasted! It lived up to all the hype and much more! I had the "mix plate" which is a combination of chicken and lamb. I also made sure to add extra red sauce because I like the heat! It was to die for!!! I usually do not like lamb just because it is usually gamey or tough. But both the chicken and lamb were very tender and juicy. The sauce! Omg the white and red sauce combine was just amazing! I wish they sold and bottle each sauce so could hoard it back to SoCal. The rice was very flavorful and was definitely not your normal plain white rice. The whole plate was definitely very delicious. I also ordered a lamb gyro. It is basically the lamb plate in a sandwich form. I honestly rather have a plate than the gyro. It was pretty tasty too but I really felt like the meat, sauce and rice went well together! This place was also very affordable and probably the cheapest meal I had when visiting NYC! Definitely a must try if you are ever in the area!!!
Absolutely the best place around. ?You can go here for lunch, dinner and after drinking snack and its always bomb. ?Any meal under $10 that will pack the container with food is a great deal. ?The lines can get a bit long but it's 100% worth it as the line does move pretty long. ?If you haven't tried this place, its a must try. ?My favorite is the chicken/lamb combo and make sure to ask for extra sauce on the side.
Pure yumminess at this stand. Don't worry, the line moves quickly and the fact that it is so long should be a good indicator for you. The food is plentiful and cheap and delicious - what could be better? We've ordered the falafel, the chicken and the gyro with rice. Truly, each order feeds two or at least one teenage boy. I love the hot sauce but it is hot. The gyro is our favorite. I think all meals are like $6 in NYC! Take it to the park and enjoy or back to your hotel room. This is a great find.
Yummy! Cheap! Nice guys!
Pulled up a seat in front of Black Rock and tried the chicken and lamb platter over rice. ?For six dollars, they give you a good amount of food. ?Did not walk away hungry. I was disappointed that much of the platter was chicken and a small amount of lamb. The chicken was rather dry. ?Plenty of rice in the plate. ?Iceberg lettuce on the bottom.
taste OK. quantity with this low price($6) makes it a must-buy. there was a very long line, easy to find the stand. I had a mixed chicken and gyros over rice. the chicken was a little dry, had to add more sauce in it. the white sauce tastes normal. I prefer the red one, not very spicy.
Wow...where do I even begin with Halal Guys. Easily the best gyro I've ever had...AND I'M GREEK! The lamb is cooked and seasoned just right. However, their white is sauce is truly what makes them the kings of Mediterranean/Middle Eastern food in the tri-state area. Make sure you get extra, you'll thank yourself later. If you live within an hour of NYC, make sure you visit Halal Guys, even if it's the only spot you go in the city. The wait might be long, but it is most definitely worth it.
One of your best bets for NYC street food. Try to avoid lunchtime, as there are generally pretty long lines at all locations
This is a tourist and late night must-do in NYC. Hands down. Recommend the lamb over the chicken.
A chicken and rice cart with exactly zero frills. We got the chicken and rice to share. Even though it is $6 US, there is a lot of food and we actually shared one between two of us. Don't expect courtesy or much in terms of service as they've got a long line and need to keep it moving! Tip: Wait in a long line and check out the menu on Yelp before you order. There are only about four or five choices, so it should be easy (for you indecisive peeps like me) and will help keep that long line moving.
Long lines that move fast at any time of the day! Cheap food. Don't be fooled by the other halal carts on the other corners- these guys are the originals I understand...food was fresh and pretty good. Not sure what all the hype was about though? The white sauce is not very flavorful- the red sauce is hot but gives it a nice kick. Couldn't determine if I had ground beef or lamb tasted like a mix of both. Chicken was shredded chicken sort of fried up. Pretty good but not 5 stars in my book. Probably one of those things you have to try at least once...
I think it's just ok. The taste is simple and I prefer a bit more spice. The hot sauce is very spicy, so use sparingly!
There's always a line here so I decided to give it a try. The quantity, the speed and the price. They are good. So even with a long line, it goes fast. All have been prepared ahead of time. This vote is strictly for quality. I'd spend a bit more for better quality chicken and beef. Minced meats tend to mask good quality. But for a quick meal that will fill you up, this is a good option.
Large portions of delicious food at reasonable prices in the middle of New York City? Sign me up! For just $6 you can get a large plate of chicken and lamb over rice, slather it with white sauce and hot sauce, and start digging in as you walk to your next location. Be prepared to be the envy of all nearby strangers. While we were walking to find an area to sit and eat, a policeman directing street traffic saw our food and said, "Halal Guys?? That's the best!!" Five hours and a few drinks later, the leftovers made for great drunk food. You can't go wrong with The Halal Guys.
best part about this cart is they are open late night and the food is awesome
Let's get something straight. This is not the best halal in the city. I've had it on three separate occasions and each time it's failed to live up to the hype. The portions are huge, yes. The pita is a nice touch too. But the meat, mostly the chicken, is always dry and lacking in flavor. Without white sauce, which could make dirt taste good, the meat just fails to stand up on its own. Now no one should be eating street meat without white sauce, but no where is it more needed than here. It's a cheap and filling meal, but that's about it. I'm glad that this place has introduced many people to chicken and rice. Now they just need to start hyping a place that's actually good.
This place was good but I would not wait more that 20 minutes for it. ?Its good street food and I'm sure getting yelled at by the worker's appeals to some people but just waaaaayyyy too damn crowded. If you like crowds and making a experience of street food.. this is for you. ?Hot sauce was delicious and damn spicy
fJust look at the line! THere's no way people will stand in the cold and rain if it ain't worth it! Don't be fooled! The 3 carts within the same 100 yards are the same Halal Guys! Street meat at its finest, I had the Mix and chicken over rice and -- with recommendation from my friend -- drowned the whole thing in white sauce. ?The white sauce is not as cucumber-y or refreshing as other Greek restaurants, but it did the trick. ?The "mix" part of my plate was the best part (I'm thinking beef and lamb mix?). ?For $6 (inclusive of tax) the portion was HUGE! Ask for To-Go so they give you a lid because you WILL be taking almost half home! Street cart = no seating, but it was so good that we ate in the rain on the sidewalk. Whatever you're doing guys, keep it up! Will be back here every time I visit!
Love this place and have been coming here for over 6 years. Call me crazy but my friends and I would drive here during the snow and wait over an hour in line from Philly. I used to love this place but now the quality is not as good as it used to be and you don't get anywhere near the amount of food you get before.
i mean, it's a staple. simple as that.
This place is the best! Everyone who I ever took to the Halal guys say the same thing " damn, this is goooood!" My favorite is basically the combination. Chicken and gyro over rice overflowing with white sauce. It's the best. They've expanded so much over the last couple of years but this location across the Hilton is my favorite, I guess it's cause it's the first once I've ever been to and really only go to. The only way to understand how good their chicken & gyro over rice is, is to go try it for yourself! Oh! Don't deny yourself of the white sauce!! $6 a platter, the best! One of New YOrk must go to places.
YES. JUST YES. OH, HALAL GUYS, I DREAM OF YOU DAY AND NIGHT AND LONG TO BE REUNITED WITH YOU ONCE AGAIN. Needless to say, I came to NY for 3 days and 2 nights, and both nights, I made a trip to eat from this cart. Just writing this review makes me salivate. I don't think I need to hype up this place more than it already is. I always get the mixed over rice! BE WARNED: The red sauce is dangerously spicy. I know a lot of people who have ruined their experiences here by putting in too much red sauce. BUT, I LOVE spicy stuff, and the red sauce is the KEY TO MY HEART. So, if you have a low tolerance for spicy foods, be careful.
No. ?Just no. ?Seriously? ?No. ?How can...no! ?It's just a little cart that serves lamb and chicken and rice. ?Just a cart on the street corner. ?So why? ?Why and no! Of all the places that we were told we "have to go to" when in New York, my better half was told by multiple people that we absolutely HAD TO go to the Halal Guys. ?We are not the people to buy into hype, but we figured we had to just so we could say we did. ?We even saw it on the travel channel while we were in the freaking hotel room! So it was our dinner on one of our last nights in New York for our trip. ?Who do these guys think they are to make something this good? ?I'm serious, it was sooooo good. ?We shared a gyro and chicken combo, which was only $6 for a very decent amount of food. I just...no. ?How? ?They were right. ?They were right. ?Tell you sister, they were right (paraphrased from Anakin Skywalker). Delicious food for an unbelievable price. ?If we're ever in New York again, we will be back. ?I don't care if there's a line, I've been in longer. ?Go here. ?All of you. ?It is worth it.
My favorite cart of all time! ?The chicken and gyro combo is the best: quick, cheap, and ?positively delicious! ?I don't know what's in the white sauce, but it's super tasty.
Hey, what are we doing for dinner tonight? The same thing we do every night, The Halal Cart on 53rd St! What's with all the hype? It's freaking delicious. The line was super short around 10pm at night. People tend to come in waves so you just have to be lucky. There are two carts operating here and they're the same. Some diehard fans seem to believe the second cart is less authentic. I'll let you be the judge... The lamb combo is super filling and it's super cheap... People would order an entire week's worth of food to take home with them. You need plenty of white sauce and hot sauce for the most heavenly experience. Their sauce is super hot and I was told they had to tune it down. BRING IT ON. I am connoisseur of hot sauce and love it. I was super tempted to order this and eat it on the plane ride home just so people would give me the stink eye. Unfortunately that didn't happen and I ended up eating the platter in the office before I headed to the airport. The Halal Guys are a keeper in my book.
Probably the best halal chicken and rice I've had for $6 or less. ?I usually get the mixed platter (lamb & chicken) over rice. ?The food isn't anything spectacular, but it's always cooked fresh and the sauces it comes with is what separates this from other halal food carts. ?They give you 2 containers of white sauce and one hot sauce. ?Beware that the hot sauce is VERY spicy. ?I usually mix several drops directly in my white sauce the then mix it with the dish. If you go during the lunch rush though, be prepared to wait at least 20 minutes for your food. ?It's worth it though if you have the time. ?For the price, huge portion, and overall quality it's worth it in my opinion. They don't list the price of drinks. ?It's $1 for canned soda and I think $2 for Snapple. ?I mention it because you should have the money ready to go when it's time to order. ?Lastly they don't give any receipts. ?Not a big deal, but even something hand written would be nice as I'm in the area for work a lot and need receipts to track my expenses.
Best Gyro I have ever had. I ordered chicken ?& lamb combo with rice. Beware of the Red sauce; it is veryyy hot, but if you mix the Red sauce with white sauce then it taste wonderful.
This is good stuff. ?Definitely give it a shot. ?I'm only taking away a star because it is overhyped and there are better tasting carts around. ?The chicken specifically isn't really seasoned much. ?Without the white sauce it would be a very bland dish.
it was great!
February 27, 2014. ?It's lunch time and you need some lamb over rice. ?How do you kill six hours until they set up shop on Sixth? ?No need, any longer! ?They are opening a storefront on 14th and Second Avenue. ?They're just waiting for the gas connection, then they'll be up and running. ?As a preview, they have a cart in front serving food all day long!
Its special for me visiting this cart . You get a heavy load of food for your 6 bucks. You can enjoy hot food even after the mid night. Taste is good and sauces are also good. ?Beware before trying the hot sauce. Its made of red chilies. Line around the cart is pretty common seen.
amazing, only place to get this type of food, the best in the world
Let's be real. ?It's 3am. ?You've had a fun night. ?Things got out of hand. ?One of your friends punched a bouncer, you're girlfriend has cried at least twice already, and at one point you were seated at a table that may or may not have had bottles on it. ?You were the king of New York, and now you're hungry. ?Dollar pizza? ?Mamoun's? ?I think not. ?You stumble into a taxi cab and mutter that famed address in a daze and craze of drinks, hunger, and yuppy swag. ?"53rd and 6th" you mumble, and you're on your way to glory. ? Is the line long, yes. ?Are there a few other carts right around the main one serving the exact same thing, yes. ?Does any of that matter, NO. ?Get on line. ?Get the platter. ?REJOICE in what can only be the most delicious plate of protein and rice ever created. ?I'm personally partial to the chicken and rice, no lettuce, with hot sauce only. ?I don't like the white sauce. ?The viscosity, color, and consistency freaks me out. ?An important warning: THAT HOT SAUCE IS HOT. ?I mean HAWT. Like BURN YO TONGUE AND THROW UP HOT. ?BUT, if you can handle the heat, it burns so good. ?SO GOOD. ? Grab a diet coke from the cart next door and bask in the glory. ?The perfect end to a glorious evening.
A New York staple. Always bring people here. It satisfies the soul.
After living in NYC for a lil more than 3 years I finally tried the famous Halal cart. It is also a first for any street food I have ever tried.. I got the combo over rice with the white & red sauce and it was an enormous amount of food. it is easily 2 to 3 servings. I waited in line for probably 30 minutes or so & there were lots of people sitting on the side eating and this was during an awkward lunchish dinner time. It took under a minute for me to order & get my order right after. For my first time trying halal, it was seriously superb & so cheap for the amount you get. It took me the whole day to finish it & after I was done I was craving it again. I get why this place is over the top popular amongst tourists & New Yorkers, I will definitely come back for a day's meal & recommend to friends visiting the city!
Believe the hype, its good - very good. For $6 you get two days worth of food. Hot sauce is HOT HOT HOT. Not cheap with the sauce and they let you take extra hot and white sauce. Only two cons that I overlook because who cares at this price - Falafel is yuck and the salad is just lettuce and maybe onions.
Try the LIC location, just as great and shorter lines!!!!!
great food, great price, quick and pleasant service :)
i will always believe the 53rd & 6th location is the best one. hands down.
Don't let the line down the street scare you. They go quick and the lamb over rice is to DIE for. #foodgasm.
Standing in line again for this right now! Line is long but well worth it. This is a must stop every time I'm here in NYC... Okay, multiple stops. This is not gourmet food so don't expect that; do expect some delicious chicken/gyro and rice to be eaten on the street. Don't forget the white sauce but beware the red sauce (really spicy so go easy)!
everyone loves this place!
Good food and a cheap price. ?The food was good as always but j think it tastes just a little bit better after drinking and partying all night. ?Surprisingly the Cart guys are pretty friendly and the service is fast.
That damn hot sauce. So addicting. Regret it the next day... I prefer the chicken over the lamb! It wasn't love at first bite, but the second time I had it. Maybe the wait makes it taste better. Don't forget to drench it in white sauce. This can probably last me three meals. I swear. Flew some home to California after freezing it! Everyone loved it :)
Fucking amazing. ? Nice lean chicken breast with just the he right mix of spices, rice, lettuce, flatbread. ?If the chicken is not tasty enough, it comes with sauce on the side. ? Always a big line, but goes quickly.
With all the hype around these guys, I expected them to be a lot better.They taste exponentially better the more booze you have in your system. On a normal night, if you have time, you might want to consider taking advantage of the many great NYC restaurants as opposed to grabbing a dinner here. On the flip side - picking some food up here on your way back from a couple of drinks with buddies - is not a bad option.
Amazing drunk food. If you can remember, get the combination (chicken and lamb) platter. Do not get while sober because it will taste like regret.
This was the place to eat street halal food in NYC back in the days (may be 10 years ago or so). Not so much anymore. Skip it and try any other cart and you're more than likely to find a better tasting, fresher food than this place. And also you don't have to stand in line for 10 minutes. I still can't get it, why do people line up on this one.
Not into ground lamb..I much prefer slices. ?The hot sauce is mouth numbingly hot..so add sparingly. ?The white sauce is whatever. ?The only good thing is that you know the food is somewhat fresh due to high turnover rate. ?I've had better.
The foods not bad, but the line is always really long. I dont think its worth the wait. They have become very popular in the last few years. Overall there are plenty of gyro spots in the city.
I always stop by this truck at least once whenever I'm in NYC. Still the best chicken on rice I've had. Definitely worth the line-up to get it. I don't know what's in the white sauce, but it's delicious - I suspect it's cocaine-based, it's addictive. At $6, it's a no-brainer for the amount of tasty goodness that you get. The portions are HUGE. Tip#1: I like it spicy but if you can't handle the heat, make sure to go easy on the hot sauce. It's spicy, as in legit Asian-people spicy! Tip#2: A real good chaser to wash it all down and cut the burn is a bottle of Calpico. Makes for a great multi-ethnic pairing.
Good food for 6 bucks. ?This is one of the places where I wonder how they make money. ? But enjoy while they're cheap! ?6 bucks gets you a good amount of rice, chicken, and uh, lamb? for the mix combo. ?Then you get to put white sauce, red sauce, and some other red sauce on it. ?And it's good. It's good even if you put a little too much red sauce on it and it burns. ?But it's so good, you keep eating. ?And it keeps burning, and you drink water to cut the burn, or try eating the pita. ?And its good. ?But it's still burning. ?So you try to eat more, all the time tasting great food and feeling the burn in your throat. ?Normally, this would end quickly, but they give out good portions, even if you're sharing. ?So it keeps going and going. ? And when it's over, you wish you had more. I wonder what kind of time-bomb chili they use for that red sauce. ?It doesn't hit you like Sriracha or something, but it does creep up on you and burn. ?It's good though... ?just use with caution.
Four stars because the portions are big and the guys who work there are nice and hustle to get you your food in the middle of the night. However, the white sauce is overhyped and kind of just tastes like they just added some mayo to some ranch dressing. The first couple times I went there, I added the sauce every time and wasn't that enthused (I kept putting it on cause the people I'd go with were so amped about how much they loved it, so I kept thinking, "Oh, maybe last time I had it on an off night!") Then I just omitted it and it was bomb. Either way, thanks for your hard work, Halal Guys. You guys put together a great plate at any hour.
Yelp should have an additional rating beyond 5 stars for this class of food: Legendary! Without a doubt, in my top ten meals of all time. It is a simple meal of chicken (or lamb), rice, lettuce and pita bread, all topped off with creamy white sauce and fiery red hot sauce (go easy if you can't handle spicy foods!). I could eat this any time of day -- breakfast, lunch, dinner, midnight snack -- and I think I have. Only $6 (and about 20 other people) stand between you and deliciousness. The value and quality of what you get is far beyond anything else I've found in NYC thus far. Skip the line to go up tall buildings and join the line for chicken and rice.
I tried the gyro platter or gyro over rice yesterday after all the hoopla. The best parts are that the platter is only $6 in one of the priciest tourist places in NYC and the hot sauce is so good and spicy. It is really really hot like the reviews say. The bad parts are the white sauce is not tahini sauce! I can spot mayo easily and so when I tasted it, I knew it was mayo! It really had no spice or flavor in it aside from mayo. ?I doubt it even have yogurt mixed into it! Also, the yellow rice they use are kinda hard. Not soft and plumb like rice is supposed to be. Maybe their food use to be better before all the buzz?
This is the place to go!! The food is the best around. It's been my go-to car for years and its never disappointed. It's another cart in the same family of Halal Guys made famous on 53rd & 6th so the food is exactly the same, only without a line. It's everything you have dreamed your Halal experience should be like. Quick, cheap and good.... It's worth going the extra block over for truly the best experience you can have in NYC eating.
I am not a fan of the famous 53rd and 6th guys. I do not like that much sauce on my halal chicken and rice so to me their food is bland without any flavor. All the flavor seems to be in their overly spicy hot sauce and super thick white sauce. Not my kind of street food. I prefer a cart that is down in the west village on 6th ave and w.4th right in front of Chase bank. His food is flavorful and full of tasty rice and meat!
Finally tried this place after many visits to NYC! I arrived at my hotel around midnight and STARVING and this place was right around the corner--it was destiny! For $6 you can get a giant plate of rice, chicken/lamb, a little lettuce and yogurt/hot sauce. Honestly, you can't beat that deal. The rice was nice and fluffy and the lamb was so greasy and bad in a good way. I also tried the lamb sammie for $4 which was equally delish. I thought both dishes could have used some more veggies, maybe some tomatoes to add another element of tartness to break up the saltiness of the dishes but, for the money no one can really complain. If I were looking for a destination for late night, cheap dining--I would definitely choose Halal guys!
Quick service, massive portions, at a low price. Be careful with the laser hot red sauce, but this is two meals for 6$. Only caution is don't try the falafel. It tastes spoiled or just off...and there's plenty of amazing restaurants nearby which specialize in New York brand falafel you should try instead.
Totally worth the line! Some great food at a super affordable price.
Cheap, plentiful, robust flavors in the streets of NYC for less than $10. It doesn't get any better than that ... well, if only they served beer. The white sauce is amazing the hot sauce is HOT!! I make it a point to stop by the cart everytime I'm in the city. Downside is the wait, but well worth it!
nothing to say. good food at a good price.
Most delicious halal I've ever had didn't think I was ever gonna like the bread but once I tried it here I'm willing to eat it anywhere
What can I say. So delicious and only $6. This place was introduced to us by my lil brother, who did the legwork and reviewed many a halal food cart. There's usually a super long line, but they're efficient and it moves quickly. We got the half chicken and half lamb halal rice plate. It is a ridiculous amount of food. You can easily split it with another person. I think the half & half is nice. Even though the food is delicious, packed with umami flavors, it gets monotonous after a while. It comes with soft pita bread and seasoned orange rice. You have to use the white ranch-like dressing. The hot sauce is INSANELY hot. We only put a little bit on, but we were dying from the heat. Use sparingly! We'll definitely stop by again if we're in the area. Best halal food that we've had in a long time. DH says, "Great value. It was super tasty."
Hands down the best halal food you can get in the US! Locals as well as tourists love this place! Don't be intimidated by the line, it moves by quickly! I generally order the chicken, and it is AMAZING. It's definitely one of a kind and a gem of the city. For those that love spicy food, I'd still take the red sauce with some precaution. It's not for the weak! Some say the cart that comes out at night (~6-7pm) is more legit than the cart that is there during the daytime. Pro tip: The Halal Guys on the corner that is diagonal to the Hilton has a shorter line - it is also run by the same guys from the original location (the corner that is across from the Hilton)
This is the stall to be at for dinner! Long lines every night, but can't argue about the portions. I think for like seven bucks, you get a alum. pan filled with rice, lamb, chicken or both, and lettuce. You can add BBQ sauce, the white sauce, or hot sauce. Talking about their "hot" sauce, man that stuff is "burning hot". I just had a little, and it was burning my butt off. Everything was nice and fresh, They literally had other stalls to cook their meats and such...... crazy good...... Only in the "Big Apple" and why not do it BIG!!!
Just ran across it by chance during out trip to NYC. The waiting time of 20 minutes was well worth it. Loved the lamb/gyro over rice more. The white sauce is amazing with a pinch of hot sauce. My husband poured a lot of hot sauce and had gastric pain later in the day. So, you might want to be cautious about your tolerance to hot sauce! The quantity given for $6 is great. I had many others cart food while in NYC; but this one by far is THE BEST! Btw, I had it before I knew of the hype about Halal guys; so am not biased!
THE BEST gyro I've ever had. Now I know why there is so much hype! I will definitely come back every time I'm in NYC. The line moves very fast and love large portions! Only 6 bucks! Cant beat that!
I honestly do not taste what everyone else is saying. I've had it more than once and different times of the day. Each time I had the famous "Chicken and rice", the chicken has been dry. Drenched with white sauce and maybe some barbecue, but the rice is hard and distasteful.
I've had a halal of a time here, a few times. The most recent couple of times have been around 3am, with some of my fave dudes. We roll up in a cab, because, well, drunk Evelyn doesn't like to walk, she'll even hail a cab and then yell up to her friends walking ahead of her to "Get In!". A PEPPER PLAY: (NYC Taxi. Night) "Where are we going?" "Fooooood." "Where?" "Halal guys!" "Jon are you sure you can take it?" "Yeah let's get it!" "Less hot sauce this time." "To The Halal Guys!" (No names are given to each line, because I can't remember exactly who said what... I just know the gist.) I have enjoyed their meat mixed combo plate, just white sauce. If I'm feeling daring, I'll put a little red sauce on there, but really mix it in. I'm always really pleasantly surprised by the shredded cheese that emerges in every bite. There is a reason these guys are famous. Word to the wise: Do you have a stomach that upsets easily, person I love? Do you? Then don't be a martyr with the hot sauce. This sauce means business, and I don't want to wait around while you pop tums in the can the next morning.
They serve good and cheap food! Will stop by for a $6 chicken & lamb over rice anytime I'm looking for something priced reasonably in NYC! :)
No substitute. ?Their rice is the secret..THE real basmati, unlike others who use long grain. ?No wonder somebody infused 100's of millions dollars for a partnership stake.
Being noobs in the city, it was kind of hard to navigate ourselves until we started smelling this wonderful smell, which led us to this huge line. The line is intimidating, but it goes by super quick. We got a half chicken/half gyro bowl, and ate it with hot sauce, BBQ sauce and that white sauce. OMG. It was so freaking delicious. $6 too!!!!!! Huge bowl; one bowl fed the both of us!!! We were eating it so quick... it was so good. Don't add too much hot sauce, because that shit was really hot. Believe the hype! Halal Guys are the real deal. When I come back, this place would be my first stop. It was truly a foodie highlight in our trip. Thanks!
great food for low price! Best gyro in NYC for this price category
One of the best chicken over rice I have had in new york city. It is as cheap, quick, and delicious you can get for paying $6 dollars.
Yes, there are two carts. ?Yes, they are the SAME. ?Feel free to go to the shorter line. A hearty and tasty meal. ?Get the lamb and chicken combo. ?Two white sauce containers and a small red sauce container will do the trick. ?Mix and enjoy. It's cheap and it's open late. ?Beware of drunken dudes yelling and wasted chicks screaming. ?I was once there when the cart was about to close up and a bunch of drunk people raided the poor carts and swiped their pitas! ?Only in NYC, baby! Visit before 00:00 and you should be okay. ?This cart offers some of the best NYC grub.
These guys are amazing!!!!!! Im not a big fan of street meat but wow are they good. I get the chicken platter, it comes with chicken rice lettuce and pita bread with any sauce you want, everyone of course loves the white sauce. Very very good!
Oh Halal Guys..... How I've missed you since my last NYC trip... Heard all the fuss and the hype about this place and decided to hit up the joint on the 2nd day of our trip.. boy was that a bad decision!!! ? Why a bad decision you may ask even though I've given them a 5 stars review? ?I couldn't stop going there after my first visit? The price was awesome for the amount of food given! ?I remember it was like about 6 bucks or so for a nice portion of goodness! Pick your meat.. gyro, chicken, etc.... select the type of plating... ?regular, salad, gyro, etc... Add your sauces! ?White sauce was absolutely magnificent! ?I truly can down the whole bottle in one setting..... probably really bad me but it simply tasted so good! The super hot red sauce is awesomely hot! ?The best part of the sauce is that it's not just hot but it has a terrific flavor! After a while I started to get simply just salad on the bottom and meat covered over the top! ?But if you combine the rice, meat, and white sauce plus a dash of the spicy sauce, I guarantee you will be coming back for more! I can't wait until my next NYC trip... this place will definitely be on my "Must Visit" list! P.S. ?There are 3 different locations on the same street now... but I still think the original location is still the best of them all!!
Favorite street vendor! They should get an extra star for opening until 4AM. My family got there around 11pm and was so surprised when there was a long line. But let me tell you, the cooks had everyone's orders done in a matter of a few minutes. We all got the half lamb and chicken over rice and it was delicious. DO NOT forget the white sauce! And you also don't have to worry about the portions, you really get a bang out of your buck.
The chow is amazing. Always fresh and always good. These halal guys cannot be beat. There is no competition.
My family and I stayed at the hilton and these guys were right next door. We got a meal from there three times in two days! I got chicken pita, husband got gyro pita and daughter got chicken and rice. All three of us loved every bit of it even better was the price! Can't wait to visit NY and eat their food again!
ALWAYS AS GOOD AS THE FIRST TIME!! Been here many times over the last four years and it is always so damn good!!!! Please check the spicy sauce before you pour the whole thing on your food and realize you can't eat it. It is hot but oh so good! The garlic sauce is the best, I always get extra! Just found ourselves in line again at 1:00am on Saturday night, it NEVER disappoints! You can get lamb, chicken or a combo... I love the Halal Guys!!
Fancy restaurants take a step aside for the real deal foodies, with their mighty food trucks! This truck had the best food we had during our entire vacation in NY. There apparently is always a line, and it shows in the flavor and freshness of any you order here. Its all good. Make sure to not skip the sauces after you get your food, omgosh, just take a little of each sauce and put it all over you dish!! I could eat there often. Must try!!
Whatever you do, don't overdo it with the red sauce!
Hands down the reason why I need to come back to NYC! Remember!!! It's the one with the YELLOW bags. I don't even like LAMB, and this place makes me crave it. I loved the gyro sandwich so much - my friend ended up giving me hers in place of my chicken and rice. Ask for extra white sauce. I don't know what that is, but it's frigging tasty! Luckily it was sprinkling that night, the line was minimal :) Yay!
YUMMM I love this place!!!!! It is like so bad for you though
Get the chicken and rice combo and don't forget the sauce. Being newbs from out of town, I didn't know that the sauces were on the side of the cart, so I started eating it without the sauce. That was a mistake. I remember all of my friends having some sauce on top so I looked back and noticed the sauces were on the side of the cart! After loading it up with some white sauce it enhanced the flavors so much! Protip: The red sauce is SPICY! Don't try and be a badass and draw zig zags with both the white and red sauce. Try it first and then add if you want more heat. It's en fuego. BBQ sauce with it kinda worked too! Make your own creations. The portions are big and my wife and I were able to share a plate if you aren't too hungry. If I come back to New York, I HAVE to come back here. Be sure to check the bags and their shirts/sweaters. There are some impostors nearby too so make sure you're at the correct cart.
Love them. They are cheap comfort food. Always dependable. Are they the best chicken and rice in NYC? I think Rafiki is better qualit of food but a balance of price, quantity and qualify - the Halal guys win!
A must when you go to NYC. This place speaks for itself. Best Chicken/lamb and rice I've EVER had. Nothing beats the white sauce and be aware that the hot sauce is really hot.There is no competition anywhere in the USA.
LOOOOONG lines tell it all. This place is legit!
This is a huge staple for myself. I can always count on this place to fulfill my needs! Everytime my mother visits from California, this is the first place we stop. Around lunch time the line can get pretty long but worth waiting in as the food is twice as fresh. If you can grab a bench across the street in front of starbucks and just grub out people watching. A true NY dining experience.
These guys cover the Manhattan area. The food is different from other Halal places that i have been to. The meat are shredded instead of bits and pieces. However, the portions are more than adequate. **IF you are not a hot or spicy food person, PLEASE do not taste the hot sauce they give you, NOR, pour the whole thing over your food. What I always tell my friends is to take a dab of it. I love to see their reaction, crying for water. Its not hot sauce, its acid. LOL. ?I have eaten here during the day and it is chaotic. Two lines. One line for the food. The other line for the drinks. If you are in a hurry, I suggest elsewhere cause the line are done the block. Lunch breaks galore. I usually come here close to closing time. The food still as fresh and the lines are close to none. I asked one of the many workers there what time they close up shop. The employee says they literally close at 4:15 in the morning. So order early.
Amazing!!
Amazing value. $6, I waited 3 minutes to order and 2 to get my food, so fast. The white sauce on chicken and rice was amazing, much better than chipotle. And the best part, no bad after effects! Not an hour later and not the next day. Definitely going back when I'm drunk, seems to be a trend among yelpers.
Let me start by saying, I can't count how many times this truck has saved me during many drunken outings. ? ? And by saving, I mean providing me with a delicious, satisfying meal thats affordable even during the worst of times. I've had my fair share of Halal food throughout Manhattan, Queens and even some places in the Bronx, but as cliche as this might sound, nothing beats 53rd Street Halal when it comes to Halal carts or food carts in general. ? First off, the service is phenomenal. Now, you may be asking yourself, "it's a food truck, how good can their service be?" Well for starters, they're fast. Seriously, they could have a line halfway down the block and you'll be served within mere minutes. Not to mention, they usually have plates already freshly made and still hot by the time you order. Seriously, I ordered a bizarre combo of falafel and chicken with rice yet even when I expected to wait off at the side for a bit, the chef handed me my plate within seconds. They're prepared for just about anything. ? Now the food itself, picture your standard plate of lamb/chicken with rice from any other cart. Now, just like pizza, it's nearly impossible to have a bad plate of Halal food so let's just say that no matter where you go, it's good and you know what to expect from every spot. Now, amplify the flavor and freshness of that plate tenfold and you've got a 53rd Street Halal plate. The portions are generous and they even throw in pita bread to boot. Yeah, you don't have to ask for it, they know that too. Also, the sauces are all self-served so you don't have to worry about them drenching your food in whatever sauce you ask for, but that's just a little plus for me. ? Point is, if you're in the area and aren't looking to spend over $10 on just a decent meal, seek them out. Even at awkward hours, you'll be sure to find people standing around so you can't really miss it.
Go get it. Good and cheap. Don't be silly and stand in the longest line. ?They have a couple carts in the same area. Just walk across the street to the shorter line.
like a good yelper, i go ahead and ignore all the warnings about the RED SAUCE. of course, i just slather on the white and red sauce in equal porportion. OMG. i was tearing after my first bite. it was so hot that my mouth was stinging long after we finished. BUT... $6 for mix plate of chicken, lamb, rice, and gryo is amazing given the quantity and its super tasty too!! tender meats, thick pitas, fresh rice... YES baby!! i kept shoveling food in while trying to not cry. WHY DO I KEEP EATING IT?! so good.. there are 3 stalls - the original one has the longest line but the one across the street on 53rd is much shorter so go there if you want to get your food fast. the last station only has halal hot dogs. go eat. be happy, and beware of the red sauce.
Had my first adventure in street meat. Boy was it worth it. A ton of tasty food for $6. Definitely check out the halal guys. In the immortal words of Arnold schwartzenager... I'll be back.
Ever since I started to eat food from halal carts, the halal guys were on my eating list. However, with my busy schedule, I was never on the east side, so I never had the opportunity to go - until last night. My friends and I walked to the location and got on line. Hearing the rumors, we knew that the lines could become unbelievably long, but when we went there, it wasn't too bad - only six people in front of us. Maybe it was luck, or maybe it was the event in Times Square, or maybe it was simply meant to be. I had the chicken over rice plate. The portion size was huge and it also included pita bread, which is a nice neutral taste to add to the plate, especially when you mix everything together with the sauces. To be honest, I expected a little more vegetables, but I can only compare to the not as generous halal carts that I've had before. The food, mixed with the sauces, produce a great blend of flavors that will definitely keep me coming back for more (if I'm ever in the area). Just a warning though - their hot sauce is RIDICULOUSLY hot. Being a Thai person, I pride myself in being able to eat spicy foods, but this was on some next level hotness. My stomach is still feeling it the next day. Would I do it again, though? Hell yeah.
For many years Halal Guys was my main go to place for midnight snack ... or food I should say when I was living in the city. I used to always get chicken over rice, but now I feel I like the combo better ... regardless both are awesome. & that white sauce ... god it is good. What do they put in there? I also always have to get the veggie option for my mom, that had always been her request when I drop by. They should consider international shipping because my mom now lives 8,000 miles away and she had just mentioned that she misses the food from here. I don't live in the city anymore, but I always find time to drop by every now and then.
Wow I really miss this place! One of my favorite places in NY to eat. ?I came here around midnight and there was barely a line. ?Maybe cause it was raining but still. ?THIS IS A MUST IF YOU ARE IN NY. ?Make sure you get the right truck. ? 6 dollars gets you a bowl of heaven. ?You get so much food for such a small price. ?I'm coming back for you guys in a week!!! PS I think they put crack in their sauce....
At first you're like '...Okay...what's the big deal?' but after you finish your meal and walk around and spend a day at work etc., you begin to think about it again. ?Then you think about how you can go back and get only their delicious tender chicken and rice, walk home, cut up a hole head of lettuce, and prepping the whole week's worth of meals of Halal guys. Good food. ?Long line, goes by fast. ?Watch out for the red sauce. ?I love spice, but I was afraid of it.
i love halal guys!! its perfect.i actually thought it will be weird tasting and will smell weird..but no its the perfect thing for hungry stomach.and for $6 with big serving.it cant get any better than that. I got mix lamb chicken then i mix the sauce all together and pita bread on the side.yumm.please come here in california.lol
These guys always get it right. I am partial to the gyro/chicken mix, which is seasoned perfectly! For $6, you really can't go wrong. It's simple and delicious food that keeps you full for awhile.
Mixed, with Rice and Pita. Extra White Sauce, and alittle hot sauce. ^ That would be my average 3am-on-the-way-home-drunktastic-order! I avoid the lettuce sometimes, but the chicken and lamb have all been on point. You cant go wrong with $6, especially with the amount of food you get. Food has deteriorated over the years (i'm talking about about early 2000s), but its still a must have! Plus when I dropped my ID here once, they mailed it back to me!! Love these guys!
I feel terrible for giving these guys 2 stars but I'm hoping this will serve as a constructive review and they make some improvements because I want to see them succeed. I realize that their fans would say they're already a success and I don't know what I'm talking about. But given that they're branching out to whole new markets, maybe my review will serve some purpose. I went on a super cold day this spring (maybe not so cold by NYC standards, but cut me slack I'm from California) and just as I'd expected, there was quite a line. We realized we didn't have cash on us midway and braved the winds to go to the bank down the street and come back and stand at the back of the line. I will give them credit for being friendly. Despite the cold and line, one of them struck a conversation with us and asked us where we're from. The food, however, turned out to be a disappointment. I got through only half of my plate and it was just so underwhelming. The sauce was supposed to be the star? But it was just ranch. I didn't get it. I had plenty of leftovers for the next day but it went uneaten. Not too proud to waste food but the best word to characterize their platters is 'bland.' I've had better street food elsewhere in NYC. I really hope I caught them on an off-day or something and my plate was a fluke, because as I said I want to see them succeed!
Always a go-to spot for a late-night bite to eat! I was never a lamb fan, so I opt for just chicken, which is still great. The meat has a smoky flavor to it, and when paired with the rice and white sauce, it just hits the spot. The lines may look crazy long, but it moves fast! Also beware of the red hot sauce. It is real spicy and little bit goes a very long way.
The best street food by Miles in NYC- each serving fees two and costs $6- you won't beat the quality at five times the price
1 want ?with ?my family ?to taz ?food is ?good ?but ?service ?need ?to good ?.price is ?very good ?to
The workers here as well as the owner sucks. You cheap a**holes give like 5 white sauces and 1 hot sauce with a to go order then yell at ppl and tell them you can't go to the side and put sauce on the food because they gave u in the bag? Dirty a** Arabs. I'll never come back.. I'm pretty sure I got food posioning from it anyways. Queens have wayyyyy better truck food.
The Best. Now much else to say about them... Once you have it, you'll be thinking about it again and again.
This place was once really good but the quality of the food dropped. Right now it's just over rated. The food use to taste good but it always makes you go to the bathroom the next day (not fun lol). By the way, when the owner is standing there monitoring the place it just makes it worse. The guy is so cheap with people using the sauces it's ridiculous. ?In summary, overhyped, overrated and will make you sick. It's probably good late night drunk food.
The hype is for real!! There was a long line, but I would say it went by fast enough. I ordered chicken over rice for just $6 and I even had left overs because they give you a lot of food! The white sauce added extra delicious flavor to the chicken and the hot sauce was really good but way too spicy. My bf and I normally eat spicy food, but The Halal Guys's hot sauce was some next level sauce!! So be careful not to pour it on your food like how we did lol.
AWESOME as Drunk Food and Hangover food!, but definitely get cravings when sober as well!! Whatever is in the "white sauce" is addicting. Unfortunately, I need the hot sauce too to eat it though, due to the overwhelming creaminess of the white sauce. WARNING! I didn't know how Hot this sauce was and had to suffer the consequences... so use it conservatively! :) I used to live in Jersey... my friends and I were having a stogie break... and next thing we know, we were at 53rd & 6th. $6 for Chicken/Lamb Combo! Heck yea!
I am addicted! You cant beat the price!
Halal Guys is the best - there isn't much else to say. It's normal halal food and they do it better than anyone else.
I came here to see what all the hype was about. It def wasnt bad but not the best. My usual go to spot near columbus circle is way better. They actually flavor the chicken and char it so it has that bbq taste. They also put falafel in there and its only 5$. I didnt know they boiled the chicken here ( no flavor) Also these guys have let the "fame" get to their heads are not polite or welcoming. Firs time.... And probably last. If it aint broke dont fix it ... And my halal guys are the the best on 9th ave
Always a great option whenever around the area. Lines can be long and be careful about the fake halal guys who sit on opposite corners. BEWARE.
Right outside my office, so nice and convenient. Amazing Halal, one of the best in the city! Lines are out of control so get there early in the lunch hour.
great food and cheap!
The West Coast boasts over a cheap, but deliciously regional meal: In-N-Out. The East Coast has THIS. THE HALAL GUYS. Since there are 5000+ reviews, I won't say anything but if you are ever in NYC, this better be on your list of to-do's. Sometimes, I come to NY just to get Chicken and Rice from the Halal Guys. Am I really getting chicken? No. I usually get gyro. But that's the phrase. "CHICKEN AND RIIIIICE ON 53RD AND 6TH" This is the east coast's pride and joy. Just like I crave and brag about In-N-Out back home in SoCal, this is what I crave and brag about while I'm in the east coast. The Halal Guys' white sauce is like In-N-Out's special thousand Island/animal style. EPIC.
What! You're in NY and you havn't tried the "Halal Guys" yet??? What planet are you living in????? I promise you this will be the best $6 you will spend in your entire life. ?Copious amounts of food loaded with fluffy rice and spiced delicious lamb topped with crack *oops I meant white sauce*...yea it's addicting...and also their super spicy red sauce. Be sure not to travel anymore within the next few hours hehe....this place is a pilgrimage every individual that steps foot in NY must make. And when you leave NY...this is surely one thing that will always be on your mind!
WOW this was a find only because I have never seen a line for street food. Both my wife and myself got mixed chicken and gyro over rice big mistake one would have been enough for both of us. On the other hand now I get left over tomorrow. Warning the red sauce is very spicy and goes a long way. The food is the best thing we have eaten in NYC so far and the price can not be beat. A must have while you are visiting and not wanting to bust your bank.
for what it is ( a street vendor ) its amazing.. one warning.. The red hot sauce is WAY TOO HOT.. i am a huge fan of hot sauce and i made the mistake of dousing my Halal with it.. lets just say i was only able to eat about half of it .. 3 coke cans later my faces still felt like it got ripped off lol
White sauce :)
Hands down, the best halal food in NYC. The chicken over rice is a must! Don't be put off by the lengthy lines, if anything, it's proof of how amazing the food is -- and don't worry, they do move fast! You won't regret it.
Chicken over rice! Absolutely the best! ?I had this twice and It's very delicious as well as affordable. ?Just writing about it is making my mouth watery. ?I went here for the 2nd time after the ball drop. ?There was a line since the food is good, and the line did move very fast.
I must be the only one who thinks it's just okay. All of my friends seem to go crazy about this specific truck and even come multiple times a week. Not a place I'd eat at every time I visit the city or even if I'm in the area. I honestly don't get the hype and think the food lacks a bit of flavor. I'm also just too impatient to wait in line, especially when I'm hungry and it's cold outside. Some of the "knockoff" trucks are better or taste the same, not to mention, the lack of a gigantic line. But I guess I have to say it's definitely worth $6 though, considering the portions they give you. I normally don't eat here unless my friends drag me into it.
Wow.. This place was great. My friends and I heard a lot of hype about this place and decided to try it. We got the combination plate with rice and pita. Don't forget to get the white sauce and spicy sauce. I went light on the spicy sauce, as it has a kick, but the combo of the two sauces was amazing. The portion is huge, and I was really full after eating 2/3's of it. It was also really cheap, $6! The line was a bit long, but it went super fast. My friends loved the food so much that they went back for more the next day.
This was my first time trying Halal food and boy was i not disappointed! The line for the vendor was down the block and I wasn't sure why, but then i tasted their food and I understood why! I ordered the lamb and chicken over rice with white sauce. It was sooooo good!! Especially on a brisk day! I used extra white sauce because i liked mine a little creamier but the service was prompt to keep the line moving. I only paid 6 bucks for a full meal and I will definitely be back!
This lamb, rice and white sauce is so good. Ordinarily, I'm not a fan of street meat. However, I make an exception for the Halal Guys. The plates are soooo good and well-priced!
Definitely worth the hype! Good portions, Right Price, Delicious Food. Recommendation: Lamb on Rice with sauce Have been to a lot of similar restaurants/food trucks but none as good as this. Their Lamb on rice with the white sauce was just scrumptious. A definite bang for your buck!
When my girlfriends and I made a trip to NY we visited the Halal cart almost every other night! ?All I have to say is, RED SAUCE + WHITE SAUCE = YOU NEED TO BRING THIS TO CALIFORNIA ASAP! ?If you guys were selling bottles of the sauces when I was last in NY, I would have bought you guys out! A couple days ago I learned that a fan of this particular cart started a food truck in LA with a similar menu. ?Based on the reviews on Yelp as well as from friends, I can't get myself to go because all I keep hearing is how it doesn't even compare to this cart. ?Hearing that definitely felt like a knife going through my heart :( I was so excited to finally be able to get my lamb, rice, and red and white sauce fix without having to fly my butt to NY. ?Sad day, indeed.
Wow, wow, wow, cheap, good and plenty. I was attending LegalTech at the Hilton and wanted to try something new. This food cart met all my expectations. I had the Gyro chicken combo plate for six dollars. (sandwiches are four dollars.) I have had many chicken rice meals at various food carts and this is the best in terms of quality, quantity, and taste. The chicken was succulent. The Gyro and the rice were tasty and the lettuce was fresh. The food filled the entire 6+ inch aluminum container to the brim which was then covered with white sauce (hot sauce is optional). I love this place and highly recommend it to everyone.
Delicious street food. Make sure you go to the yellow signed street cart, not the others nearby
Got in line around on Saturday night at 6:30 pm and waited for about 20 minutes. ?I ordered a combination lamb and chicken plate which was $6.00. ?Given the taste and the value, you really can't go wrong here. ?I usually use a lot of their white tzatziki sauce mixed with just a little bit of the red sauce for a small kick of heat. ?The flavors are excellent. ?The meat is juicy and everything together makes a really delicious meal. ?Service is rushed, but it's a cart and they're interested in moving volume. ?Overall, an excellent cheap eat that I end up craving. ?I will definitely go back.
I love these guys so much. I mean my review makes no difference as Im sure you know how awesomely amazing this food cart is. Not only is the food freaking delish , the guys are so nice. If you work at some places in the area, you can get a free drink from them. the only problem i have is the freaking line sometimes.Damn that line
This is a must stop when you're in new york city. Chicken on rice is the classic but I also enjoy the lamb on rice. Careful as the spicy sauce is really spicy.
This place is crack. ?I don't even care that I sometimes have to wait in a line that wraps around the block while the City is enveloped in a polar vortex. I would eat their food every day if I wasn't certain that I'd be compromising my health. Chicken/Lamb mix over rice for the win.
Meat. Rice. Pita. White sauce. Cheap. As good as it gets.
6/5 stars. -1 for not having crab juice. The sauce will ruin your world. I walked around the city afterwards looking like I was pepper sprayed. I'd do it all over again. The same way.
For 6 bucks you get a platter big enough to share and SO tasty. We have been visiting their East Village location lately now that they are there. Lamb platter with white sauce is my go to at all times.
Always the go-to place for late night food that satisfies the craving. Whenever I go, I always see people on one long line. I'm hoping that by now, ppl know that there are about 4 corners you can get gyro from...NOT ONE. I always laugh whenever I see that. Add the white sauce and BBQ sauce! It's the best.
The hype is real! ?The chicken & rice bowl were amazingly delicious! Get the hot sauce on the side! It's super spicy! I love spicy food and could barely handle the flamin' red sauce. ? One is big enough to share amongst two people. Beware, there are plenty of trucks in NY claiming to be The Halal Guys. You must look for the cart that says "The Halal Guys" $6 bucks a bowl. Super cheap and a perfect spot for late night eats.
Absolutely love this halal stand. One thing that I did not like --they weren't able to tell me if they had a mixture of beef and lamb, or just lamb. The man working was honest that he didn't know. However, they should know what they are selling considering they are so famous. I have been coming to this stand for years. Definitely top notch halal food.
I have not reviewed this place - shame on me. As the 4891th reviewer, let me officially assure you - this place is LEGIT! ?I know there are carts on all corners of this intersection, and I have been assured by MANY New Yorkers that ALL 4 carts belong to the same people hence the food tastes the same. But true to my uber FOBBY self that reveals itself in NYC particularly, I will duly wait in line at the cart right outside Starbucks. I have always only eaten here and I will always only eat here.. yea, I am weird that ways! I always get the chicken over rice withe extra yogurt sauce - the chicken is moist, it's flavorful - it's like a spoonful of chicken heaven in each spoonful, I would change NOTHING about this place - except maybe have someone police the place for all the super ghetto people who refuse to clean up after themselves X-( Regardless, no trip to NYC is complete in it's fobby goodness without a bowl full of chicken over rice from this place - also, lo behold dear reader, this place gets 2 - not one thumbs up from my sister too..!!
Man, I seriously wish we had one of these trucks in Downtown San Diego! I would be eating this once a week if I could. I got the Halal Guys twice during my NYC trip a couple months back. You can't beat chicken and lamb over rice drenched in that white sauce for $6! THAT RED HOT SAUCE THOUGH IS ANOTHER STORY. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK. THIS IS YOUR WARNING.
Pros: Chicken and rice, only $6 Cons: Overhyped Kristin B. kept raving about her experience at The Halal Guys when she visited NYC, so I was excited to try it for myself during a recent vacation. We got there around 11pm-ish on a Sunday night and while there was a pretty long line, it moved really fast and we had our food within 10 minutes. We opted for the mix gyro & chicken over rice and it was really good especially with their white sauce drenched on top. I guess I was just expecting so much because of all the amazing things I've heard about this place that I was left wanting more. Also, be prepared that their hot sauce is really really hot. I tried just a drop and my mouth was on fire haha.
Its the famous halal guy ! The line was long but it went quick. I'm little disappointed, i had chicken over rice, the portion was really big worth of the price, the chicken didn't bring the joy, it was certainly too dry, it wasn't tasty at all, everything else was fine, but chicken was the main role to play, maybe next time I'd be lucky
Right outside the corner leading into MoMA. Make sure you don't get tricked by the other guys around the corner the street over also wearing yellow - theirs say Halal Guys instead of "The Halal Guys"....they didn't have any customers when we passed by. Lol We got the chicken and gyro plate - more than enough portion for two people. Got the yogurt dressing on the side and the small spicy tub. Chicken is good and moist and gyro is the standard. Word of caution - easy on the red spicy sauce. It's good but your bowels will pay for it later. $6 for a big plate - can't get any cheaper than that! Bring cash!
YEAH BABAY! I came here once late at night, being told they have the BEST HALAL in NY. Not that I've had a lot of Halal or anything, but it was purdy damn good! Apparently they have the best white sauce but I'm not into that so I can't say, but still! I was all 'nomnomnomthisissogood' and everyone else was like 'iknowright?!?' So yeah, I think that speaks for itself.
Been here for many late night adventures craving the delicious street meat lol the line is always long no matter what time you get here so they are obviously doing something rite. I get the gyro platter and drown it in white sauce it doesn't get much better than that!
Pretty good but the chicken tastes like cardboard. ?I'd rather go to another cart in NYC and not wait in the long line of tourists.
Always a long line but worth the wait! Great munchies too. I prefer the combo over rice !
I am always willing to try new food, my best friend introduced me to this food cart. I was not expecting much, maybe a long line! We arrived at lunch time. But, the line moves very fast and it is located near MOMA (Museum of Modern Art) which is a popular museum. I ordered the Chicken over Rice with vegetables. It was delightful and super yummy. The chicken was tender and the rice had an orange color from the spice added to it. It was flavorful and delicious. Remember to add lots of White Sauce! Beware of the Hot Sauce! Also, the amount of food that I got was plentiful and fills you up. The price is cheap and reasonable. It was only 6 dollars. ?I will definitely be coming back! It is a great find. Photo/Food Blog: lovethephotographer.tumb?
This shit is crack. It's not the best halal out there, but it's still so good. Can you curse on yelp? Cause this sh*t is f*cking delicious. Proceed with caution when adding the hot sauce. It's actually hot.
5 stars: fast service, delicious food and great price. Every time I visit nyc I always have to swing by this spot.. Sometimes even twice. The workers are always super nice and the food is yummy! I always get the combo. definitely a spot you want to visit if your in NYC. Or even for the locals.
Don't let the long lines turn you away, the line moves quickly and they are very efficient. The food is worth the wait, I shared a combo with rice with my brother and it was so incredibly delicious and the portions were generous, and for only $6. It comes with whatever protein you choose on top of seasoned rice, lettuce, pita, a white sauce that tastes like ranch, and a hot sauce. The hot sauce was really spicy so be careful. It's small for a reason. It was pretty salty but was still so tasty, and my brother and I couldn't finish the plate together so we actually ended up having to toss the rest since we were on our way to the Met. Definitely a place we would come back to again and again.
Tons of Hype. ?Went to the one on 14th. ? Pretty good, but very very salty. ?Got the chicken and lamb mix combo over rice. ? Have to say, for my money, Rafiqui's is the better street meat.
Although Halal Guys eats like a meal AND is only 6 dollars, I always take the opportunity when visiting NYC, to stuff my glutinous face with HG as a midnight snack. I prefer the chicken plate to the gyro but if you're really conflicted, do a combo platter of the two proteins. In essence, the plate is a bed a yellow rice with lettuce, tomato, choice of protein (nicely seasoned and chopped), warm pita bread all topped with a flavored white sauce concocted of yogurt, spices and unicorn tusk powder - because it's magical. What all seem like an innocuous cast of ingredients are tied together by that delicious white sauce. People have gone so far to dub it the crack/cocaine of sauces! It's not only addicting, but it also won't make your nose bleed like cocaine!* The hot sauce, however, that's a nose bleeder! Be sure to use the sauce sparingly, unless you like spicy food or the sensation of the top of your tongue melting off. In all honesty, It's got a great chili flavor without much (any?) seasoning, which works well with the salty meat and the spiciness is tempered by the yogurt sauce. +TIP+ There are three HG locations. Two locations are at 53rd&6th and one location is at 53rd&7th. Usually, the line is much shorter at 53rd&7th and is only a 5 min walk away. It's exactly the same company - same logo, same bags, same shirts and most importantly, same FOOD. It's worth checking out if the lines at 53rd&6th are too long. Good luck! * I have never done crack/cocaine
White sauce magic--there's the secret. Being a newbie Yorker, I've always wanted to try their food and I guess it's safe to say they have lived up to my expectations!:-)
The first 'chicken and rice' most people are ever exposed to. ?Delicious and the red sauce is insanely spicy.
I love, love this place! Where else can you get delicious, hearty food in Manhattan for $6? And it's open late. It just doesn't get much better. ?Each time I come to this cart, there is a line but guys are really good at what they do. ?Remember to bring cash. ?I always get the chicken and rice but I'm pretty sure their lamb is good too. ?They have several other locations and recently opened a store, but I always go to the original cart. Each time I visit Manhattan I make sure to come here at least once but realistically I come here several times a week and when I leave I make sure to order at least one to go. ?Be aware of their hot sauce though, it's no joke. CASH ONLY.
Coming from Sydney and looking for a quick meal I looked up Yelp and found The halal guys with their high rating. I was a bit hesitant to try it at first coming from a food cart, but looking at the line and the smell I couldn't resist. I must say since being in los Angeles, and las Vegas it's been the best meal that I have had on my trip. For $6 and enough food for 2 adults I must say it was the best value and you can't beat the taste. Very simple but very nice. Will try it again before I go. Keep it up guys.
Soooo good! ?Nothing more can be said about them that hasn't been said. I was there around 2:20pm and there was a line 13 people deep. ?It moved pretty quick and I was up front ordering before I knew it - about 5 minutes. ? Go heavy on the white sauce and very light on the red sauce ( it's very spicy! ) but gotta have a little bit of it for a nice kick! And.... Just savor it!
I've visited NYC twice this year and I always make a point to stop by the Halal guys for some good halal food. I always get the mixed plate over rice with lots of bbq sauce and some hot. Be careful because the hot sauce is really hot. For 6 bucks you get a full plate of meat and rice and most of the time you cannot finish because they give you so much. If you are visiting NYC, add this to your places to try.
Even if u don't like halal this is the place to start liking it! Located in midtown and open late! Their halal meat is stupendous. I always get their lamb over rice and it always taste so amazing. There is no curry taste but just richness in tenderness and flavor. The plate is huge and I could barely finish it but I never share. I cover it in white sauce and it taste even more amazing. The lines here can sometimes be ridiculous but there are like three or two carts that are halal guys so just find the shortest one
$6 for a large plate of rice, lettuce, pita, and delicious chicken/lamb?!?! This place definitely lived up to its hype. Worth it and one of the best things NYC has to offer. Get a plate of anything and just drench it in that white sauce because it's just sooooooooooooooooooo good. Careful with the hot sauce because that was super spicy, just a little is enough. Can't go anywhere but the original, find them on 53rd and 6th! (that's also their website)
this place is the best halal ever. hands down. very light and delicious!!! check it out ASAP
So my wife needs her pizza fix when we come to the City, I need my chicken and rice fix when I come here. Again, satisfied like no other, brought 5 home, 3 for myself, 2 for my sister in law. I will see you guys again in January, can't wait!
Good price, good taste, big quantity and LONG lines!!!!! If there were not many people waiting, should give a try. Not very worthy for waiting in chili windy day in Jan like I did.
I got here every time I'm in NYC, the chicken and rice is one of my favorite meals I've ever had! I will go out of my way just to eat from the halal guys! During my recent trip to NYC, I think I easily ate chicken and rice daily, so about 4 times! Each time just as good as the last.
Chicken and lamb combo over rice was absolutely delicious and an enormous amount of food that left me with an entire extra meal for later that night. They give you the option of putting on a yogurt based sour cream like sauce and a spicy red chili sauce as well. Make sure to plan for eating at this place because the line can be quite long and you might have to wait a while to eat. My buddy and I took ours to go, but many people would sit down on the sidewalk near the truck and eat their food there. Compared to a place in Austin that I normally frequent for a chicken and lamb combo and it is much better than my local place in Austin. I would definitely come back to this place the next time I am in Manhattan and looking to eat middle eastern street food.
Ever since I first heard about the famed "chicken and rice" from friends, Halal Guys has been #1 on my "Must Do/Eat in NY" list. ?That's right. ?Number 1. ?Higher than the likes of Times Square, Central Park, and the Statue of Liberty. ?And not just any Halal Guys mind you, but their most popular location on 6th and 53rd. ?Which just so happened to be less than a block from our hotel. ?WIN! If you couldn't already tell from their glowing reviews, Halal Guys puts out some fantastic food, regardless of whether you're here day or night, drunk or sober. ?This is one of the few times where reality met the hype, if not exceeded it (seriously). ? Made up of chicken, rice, lettuce, a slice of pita bread, and the infamous White Sauce, the CHICKEN AND RICE BOWL really is awesome. ?The rice has the perfect taste and texture (soft and fluffy) and the chicken is nice and tender. ?However, the combination of the two with the white sauce is what makes it all so delicious. ?And yet, amazingly enough, the Chicken and Rice Bowl isn't quite as good as... ...the CHICKEN AND GYRO RICE BOWL! ?As much as I liked the chicken and rice bowl, I loved the gyro and the layer of flavored it added. ?The whole thing was simply delicious. ?Plus, for the same price ($6.00), why go with chicken OR gyro when you can get chicken AND gyro? Although there's usually a line at any given time, it seems to move pretty fast given how wicked efficient they are. ?One guy takes orders/payments, one cooks, one assembles bowls, one bags orders, and a fifth cleans/restocks. ?Maybe we were just lucky, but we waited at most 10-15 minutes COMBINED over our two trips. Between the amount you get, how amazing it tastes, and how convenient it is, I don't think there's a better deal out there for the money. ?Even Costco's $1.50 sausage and drink aren't a match (though they are still damn cheap). ?Just watch out for that hot sauce of theirs though. ?It's legitimately hot...and painful.
You have to try it when you come to NYC! It is one of the best food in NYC. It's only $6 for the food! Lamb/ chicken / combination over rice! Good one!
Walking home after a trip to Broadway I saw this huge line and got curious. Being a foreigner makes me wanna try all sorts of things. So I tried the chicken over rice, with lots of white sauce. Wow, that sauce makes the dish, it's really delicious. This is a perfect meal, you can choose chicken or beef and if you are not a fan of rice you can skip it and just go for a simple salad (lettuce). To get intimidated by the line, it's fast and for the price (U$ 6) it's well worth it.
Nom nom nommy! Yes the chicken and rice is delicious, as a late night snack and, I can imagine, as post-drunken/hangover food. I can understand how it can become addicting. Why not 5 stars? Purely because of the wait. But there's a reason the lines are so long!
3 words- CHEAP. SIMPLE. FILLING. ?Living in LA we can't get chicken and rice .... The one star deducted is because it was a wait and kinda unsanitary... Lol but I guess what can you expect from street food. ?NOM nonetheless MUST TRY
Wow, we stumbled onto this place our first night in New York. It did not disappoint. After some drinks this was the food that we needed at 230 in the morning. Delicious, authentic, hot, spicy, and flavorful, my bowl of yellow rice, lettuce, shredded chicken, green pepper and hot sauce was incredible. Do not forget the falafels!!!
I came here pretty late at night super hyped to try it based on the reviews and I was very disappointed. I tried it twice just to confirm and both times my falafel was cold. Maybe they are just known for the meat...
Omg!!! I can eat this at any time of the day or night! It never fails me!! I swear by this place. So cheap and So delicoius! Especially love their sauces. Worht the hype
My out-of-towner friends, please give them a try. Theres like 4 cart locations of same company. The main location (this one) always has a long line while others do not. Ask for grilled vegatables if youd like. Be cateful, the hot sauce ia damn- HOT!!
Sooooooo addicting. Best hangover food and worth the wait. Just get the one across the street with the same uniforms. Just as good but half the wait. Just get the white sauce and watch out the hot sauce is spicyy!
I been there once. Food is great. When I was there line is so big I was hoping like a hour in line. But OMG they are serving is so fast they completed the whole line in 10 minutes. The line at Halal Guys is never ending. I love the flavour of the chicken over there
It's a six dollar bowl of lamb, chicken, or both on top of rice and grilled greens, and it's the best six dollar bowl of meat on top of rice and greens you will have. In fact, it's probably the zenith of the meat and rice formula. A must try if you are in the area and want something casual.
Always delicious. ?Always available. Always Halal.
As far as halal trucks go, this is definitely very very good. The chicken is tender and juicy, never dry - almost buttery, a step above. The lamb is savory, maybe not as stand-out but still good. The portions are huge, and they give you warm pitas which have been soaking in the chicken juices as an added bonus. All for $6!
I'm a few years older and wiser! Less drinking, more experience this time around. Line long as expected. Weather sucked very cold, wind strong. Plenty of drunks to keep the experience real and entertaining. Ordered the mixed plate with rice and gyro sandwich $10. Handed the guy a $20, he gave me my food and asked me to move along, but did not give me $10 in change back. I asked and received. I stood around to see if this was more than a one time instance. Well guess what seems they are taking advantage of folks who've had one too many to drink and aren't watching the financial transaction take place. While very opportunistic , let a very bad taste in my mouth. They have lost my business forever.
One of the BEST meals I've ever had!! If you're in NYC, you gotta stop by and check it out. Make sure you bring cash! All you need to get is the chicken over rice. Get lots of white sauce! Watch out for the super spicy red sauce! Can't beat a giant bowl of yummy goodness for only $6! :) Definitely hits the spot if you want a quick, warm, meal for on-the-go or late night snack!
First of all, don't expect good service! Ordered 3 mix rice to go, wanted extra white sauces but was given an attitude! However, the food was undoubtedly amazing as always. Tastes like heaven especially during the cold weather!
Hype, hype and more hype! There are so many of these carts here in New York that I had to find the original one. I was greeted with a long line in 40 degree temperatures (last November). However, we toughed it out and finally ordered. This is probably one of the best bangs for your buck in NYC. For less than $10 you get a huge portion of rice, meat, pita and sauce. Order the chicken/lamb and load it up with the white sauce. The red sauce is good but careful because applying too much can turn into a volcano in your mouth. Possibly one of the hottest sauces I've ever tasted.
Their portion is pretty big (at least for me), so come here when you're HUNGRY. ?There's ALWAYS a line but it moves pretty quickly so don't worry about being the 50th person on a night. ?There's seating one block down if you don't want your back to be wet from sitting under the fountain
Best halal cart in the city! Don't get scared by the huge line, it goes really fast. Nothing else to say really, just go and try it.
Best food for drunchies. Period.
DELICIOUS!!! The spot rocks! Amazing food and reasonable prices. Make sure you ask for hot sauce white sauce with your plate/sandwich. Plate is $6 and it's plenty of food for 2 people! We got 2 plates, a sandwich, 2 cokes, 1 water for only $19! That's a steal! Make sure you go to this one! This is the original spot. There are bunch of other Halal food carts, but apparently not as good as this one.
Delicious and cheap
Whoa. My friends were raving about this place and I knew I had to try it when I was out in NYC. Luckily I was heading home from the Theater District and it was just a few blocks away so I decided to stop by before heading home. Decent line, but the move fast so have your money ready. The sodas and waters are in a different cart probably all run by the same family. I ordered the chicken with rice - which seems to be the most popular dish reading through the reviews and the people who were before more. Portion sizes are huge. Enough for 2 meals for sure - or for 2 people. The white sauce is addicting. You should try and drench your plate in the white sauce. I didn't try any of the red sauce because everyone says its spicy. I didn't want anything TOO spicy. If I were to read the most recent news, it seems like they're franchising - hopefully they're coming out SF so I can have more of this great late night meal!
Both lines are the same, guys. Stop waiting on the longer line cause you think that's the "legit" one. Meat is leaner than typical halal platters from street carts. Nutrition on average is about 40grams at The halal guys versus 60grams of fat from other halal carts. Take in to account the 40grams includes the pita bread which is really filling and you got yourself quite the macro nutritious platter for $6.00. Gotta love NYC.
My friends and I have been going to this place for years, we live out on the island and have frequently made the long car drive to the city purely for this food and then drove back home.
Great after spending a day touring Manhattan. The line moves fast, they never seem to close, and high turnover rate assures your food will almost always be fresh. For $6, you get a huge serving of chicken and gyros over a heaping of rice and pita. They also give you a bit of lettuce which adds a nice contrast to the delightfully greasy gyros. Use a lot of white sauce and be wary of the red sauce. One will last most people two meals. You can people watch while eating your meal or take it home to enjoy. Outstanding value and delicious food at almost any given hour.
Tasty food, no doubt, but not rating as 5 star because of rude service. We ordered 2 mixes and were given only 1 white sauce. When I told the guy we were only given 1 sauce I was questioned as if I'm lying and trying to get more sauces than I should. I even showed the guy my bag of food. He made a comment that I left then came back to try to get more. After explaining he eventually checked my bag and remained quiet. He ended up giving me more sauce but no apology whatsoever for the mistake. Rude. I'll come back again for sure because it's good but my recommendation is make sure you watch how many sauce they hand you especially if it is more than 1 order
Honestly I was bit nervous about ordering here at first mainly due to the 20mins line when it was close to 11 pm on a weekday. IT WAS WORTH the wait . I would love to come here regularly but it's too far from my workplace and I'm not able to come here often but if I near this place i usually grab a chicken over rice- I love how they let you decide how much sauce you need on your plate.
The Honest Truth: Best, cheapest, food you can find in New York. ?Lines usually are long but move fast. $6 for a plate. ?White sauce is good, Red sauce is extremely spicy (beware!). ?Make sure you know what you want or they'll get mad if you take too long to order. The Details: This is usually my go-to spot when I need a late night meal or am heading back home. ?What's not to love? Chicken/Gyro, rice, lettuce and pita bread. You can usually get 1.5-2 meals out of the $6 plate. ?Maybe just 1 if you're really hungry. ?The spicy sauce is really spicy so be careful how much you put. ?All my friends that love spicy stuff always underestimate it and start sweating after the second bite. ?There't not much left to say. ?It has 4.5 stars with 5000 reviews and definitely lives up to the hype!
How can you go to NYC and not have the Halal guys? Always one of my recommendations to anyone on their visit. Drunk or sober, this place is always great. I love that they're always consistent and that they're open late. I always end up catching a cab from the bars in Lower East Side just to get some before I end the night. I hear the line is ridiculous, but I haven't been there anytime before midnight!
love this place! recommend the combo with both the spicy and white sauce. Great location and super fast service.
Always amazing - even the leftovers. Go heavy on the white sauce and light on the red. For leftovers, I fry and egg and let the yolk serve as additional sauce. Out of this world amazing.
Love this place, huge servings, always fresh and amazing. I can never finish it (normally share with someone). I normally get the mixed plate option, with plenty of sauce!!! It is worth the wait.
I had the best CNR experiences here, I use to come here for breaks during my Finals, Or during my mcats in the middle of the night, Im not arabic but i came here so often tha i could now speak in their dialect when i speak arabic...They are my Aziza lol. Everything about CNR makes me smile cause it brings back the best memories ever. Amazing food I buy the White sauce by the bottle the red sauce is mad hot, so make sure you get some of those yogurt drinks, I wish they didn't have only strawberry one, but get the yogurt drink cause of the lipids from the fatty acid will neutralize the spicy-ness.
Great street food!!! Nothing more nothing less. Fast, quick and awesome stuff. It's a little on the dry side of things but that's y u get a nice cold coke to wash this awesomeness down. Lol It's good to try and to say you've tried it, the taste is great for the price $6. I had the mix with no veggies. The guys r super friendly and fast so know what u getting when up front. Don't hold up the line people... they only have a few things on the menu it ain't rocket science. Oh and ask them if u can taste the falafel , if the guy is in a good mood he'll give u one to taste for free. Good peeps, good food, and NYC... Oh and don't forget the white & red sauce!!! So get down there and stand in line it's worth all 600 pennies!!! Thanks NYC
Last night in NYC and my friend and I did a late night food run to the Halal Guy. ?Everyone says this is the place to try I'd say you have better chances else where maybe a mystery meat hotdog? I'd give that more stars than this. I don't get all the 5 star ratings, I ordered the gyro and chicken and got a plate of dried chicken and dried gyro over some food colored orange rice with no nutrition lettuce. ?The white sauce and hot sauce that people swear by I now know why its because its the only thing that helps this dry food go down. ?No other purpose. I blame all this misinforming ratings about how awesome it is. ?It wasted time and wasted my money. ?For anyone wanting to try this place don't say i didn't warn you. ?Ehhhhhh a 99 cent slice of pizza would have tasted better. The best part of my meal is the water that helped wash out the taste and the overcooked meat. This is a truthful review that I wish I had read before embarking on a 9 block walk.
C'mon everyone! What are you doing on that obnoxious line?! Halal cart connoisseurs all know that you have to go to Broadway or Hillside Avenue for a real Chicken over Rice. These turkeys do not know how to bring the heat or any flavor in for that matter. To all the trendy readers, heed my warning and break free from this hyped up establishment!
My review is about the Halal Guys on 53rd street and 7th ave. My friends and I come here once a week between classes to get the chicken and lamb rice platter w/ white and bbq sauce. A platter is enough to share between two people! It's cheap and quick (the line is much shorter than the one on 6th ave) I do find that the rice is really bland in comparison to other halal carts (like the one on Nevins street)..so minus one star The veggies are surprisingly fresh and tasty. The amount of meat they give is based on how busy they are. I find that when the line is short they give a lot of meat..but when there's a relatively long line, they give less..it's logical I suppose. WARNING: Their hot sauce is HOT..or maybe I just don't have a tolerance for spicy food lol but it's definitely hotter than other halal carts I've ate at. But still, for $6 it's a lot of food, perfect for broke college students like me lol!
There's a reason why people will line up around the block for this halal cart when there's one on every corner. Generous portions, great prices, and terrific flavor. Best time to go is in the middle of the night!
Quintessential late night munchie food. Incredibly consistent, greasy, and flavorful. BTW don't stand in the long line, there is a Halal Guys cart across 6th that is exactly the same with half to no line.
Mountains of fluffy gyro, chicken, lettuce, and tomato over super yellow rice topped off with a mysterious white sauce and a red sauce so spicy, it'll make your rethink your next prostate exam? All of this for the very cheap price of $5 - $6. Seriously I'm not lying. Everyone talks about the cheap street food you'll find in NYC. This is the type of thing they're talking about. It's hot, sweaty, meaty, dirty street food in all its heavenly glory, spewing a flavor so delicious you'll be hooked for the rest of your life. Walk up to 6th Ave and 53rd St and you'll see a probably three vendors with the Halal Guys red and yellow colors. Don't be fooled! Only go the one with a long line. Trust me, that's the one you want to go to. Wait you for your turn. Buy a thirst quenching Snapple. And get your butt back to work. It's also a great place to check off for your NYC tourist checklist. Fun, safe, street food known for being fast, cheap, and filling. What more do you want people?!
Their chicken and rice was probably my most affordable meal in NYC. And you can basically stretch it out into 2-3 meals since the portions are so large. You order. You pay. They hand you your food all hot and fresh off the cart. You wander around the side and drown it in their sauces before you start to enjoy your meal. Their hot sauce is VERY HOT. Like fire. I couldn't taste a thing after it. Use with caution or in very minimal proportions. You literally cannot go wrong with their food. Especially when strangers walk past you with the food and they're like "IS THAT HALAL GUYS? THEY'RE THE BEST!!!"
It tastes good and definitely worth the price, but I don't think it is as good as the yelp review suggests. Only judge based on the deliciousness of the food, I'd only rate it half a star higher than other chicken over rice in nyc
Best street meat ever! Very generous portions! I recently got the lamb and chicken over rice with extrra white sauce and it was amazing! Make sure to avoid the impostors across the street, they also wear yellow and have a similar logo. You can double check by looking for the yellow bags and the yellow umbrella. Trust me, they are not the same!
Best food ever
MUST MUST GET from New York. I've only been living in the city for about 6 months, but I visited about 5 times before moving here and had to get it every time. I always get the chicken and rice with white sauce. (Ask for extra white sauce if you're taking it home to eat.) DON'T get the hot sauce unless 1) you can handle super spicy stuff or 2) you want your tongue to feel like it's burning for the next hour. It's one of the cheapest foods you can get in New York considering the portions. Usually lasts me about 2 meals. CASH ONLY!
possibly the most overrated food option in NYC. These are totally ordinary food carts that people like to think they've "discovered" so they can line up on the street for the privilege of overpaying for a box of ordinary street-meat chicken with some mystery sauce. Sidewalks are littered with refuse from the business(es - there are several copycats). Good only if you're drunk on the way home from a bar and need something quick and filling. Otherwise, do yourself a favor and visit one of the many, many other culinary options in our town. Really, this is not a good experience for visitors to New York, let alone anyone who lives here.
I stood in line yesterday waiting to eat a n awesome gyro sandwich. ?After 30 mins I ordered my food. ?Mix plate over rice, gyro sandwich,and falafel plate. ? I ate here 7 years ago and it was off the chain ridiculous good!! Got back to the hotel with mouth watering anticipation of delicious tasting food. ? Bam! ?The food was horrible!! The meals were cold and tasted terrible!
There's already so many good reviews, so I am just going to add another 5 star rating.
Nothing can beat this. The queue is really long but entirely worth it, and it moves at the speed of light.
So the story starts with we few, we happy few, we band of brothers, barhopping in Hell's Kitchen. Following some vile pickle juice shots at Valhalla Bar, I, with bravado, declared, "He who sheds his blood with me shall be my brothers!" Seeing how my call to arms were falling on deaf, drunken ears, I then decided to charge on alone, while the rest of my crew called it a night by making their offerings by bowing before their porcelain god. Against my life partner's wishes, I did a lap around Central Park in the dark of night, and like the moon steering the grunions to shore, I slithered over to Halal Guys. I ordered the Chicken and Rice Platter, and dredged it with the White Sauce. Being drunk, I couldn't have legally consented to it, but my alter ego decided to add some Red Sauce to the plate against my sphincter's wishes (I paid for it the day after). My alter ego also had a conversation with Cuba Gooding Jr ("Hey, YOU were in that Disney Klondike Dog Movie and the Navy movie where the chain cuts off your legs!"), who seemed to appear out of nowhere, to ask me what was good to order. From my cloudy recollection, I believe that conversation may not have been very appropriate, had we both been sober. ? ? Anyways, Chicken and Rice Platter.
Just look at the line. ? $6 for all this? There is nothing I don't like about their food.
No night is complete without chicken and rice, or so I have heard.... Honestly, this ain't got nothing compared to the good ole Euro donner kebab at 3am. Firstly, it takes way too much effort to hold the aluminum plate, as I carefully fork rice, minced lamb, and shredded chicken into my mouth. Sure, they the portions are huge, the prices are cheap, and their white sauce is bomb-dot-com, but is this halal cart really worth the 1000s of calories? ... OK, so that depends on how drunk one is, but personally, I'd save my calories. Having said that, I can totally see what all the hoopla is regarding this "original" cart. As long as you can stand the pervy dudes and stinking up your going out clothes, then by all means, eat to your heart's content.
If looking for something to satisfy your late-night alcohol munchies, The Halal Guys is your place. The value is amazing. Spent roughly $13 for 2 dishes, which were large enough to feed 4. Definitely a place to check out for all you tourist
YUM! Definitely going back. The food was good, full of savory flavor. The price was very affordable. Even though there is always a line, it goes by very quickly. Just a warning: the hot sauce is extremely spicy!
Five stars is not enough to describe this amaaaazing food! If I was dying, my only last request would be to have this as my last meal on earth! The white sauce is crack!! Gah I hate that we don't have anything like this in LA. My life would be complete. I dream of going back to NY just to have another one of these meals! NY is calling my name. I miss it! Wah Wah Wah!
YO, WHATS THE BIG DEAL? I'm sorry, was I missing something? I'm not sure if it was just too overhyped for me.. but I didn't get the appeal. I've had better chicken and rice dishes....... omg, is there something wrong with me? WHYS EVERYONE LIKE THIS PLACE. Ugh. I know I'm going to get a lot of shit for this review but *shrugs* The guys at the cart were really friendly and gave us a free keychain. lol. I felt like I should've saved my stomach for something else. Okay, bai felicias.
Probably the best food I had in new york. Get the combo (half lamb and chicken). Extra white sauce. Get the hot sauce only if you can hang. Pricing is awesome. 6 bucks for a drunk meal?! And yes I came here 2 nights after to make sure I wasn't just having a drunkchie moment. Yes, it was still bomb.
Always yummy. The spicy sauce is SPICY, go easy.
Came back here on my short NYC Business trip and again its a slammer.. There are actually a few location now.. I went to their other location near LES.. Basically, I don't know if this is true but I felt like their white sauce taste a little different to me.. Maybe im trip pin, but their hot sauce is still fire.. Love it.. Kicks my ass. Literally.. Got 10 togo to bring back to Socal.. Definitely still good..
Great for lunch or a snack if you're starving from walking a few blocks. ?I like the gyro pita with the white & red hot sauce - it hits the spot! ?The plate is a good option if you're starving, it's huge so I think 2 people could share it. ?The red sauce is super spicy, I asked for extra and my mouth was burning - but I still enjoyed it!
"Every time I come to NYC, I will come here." Now repeat after me until you find yourself in line waiting for their world-famous chicken and rice. Ok, so the chicken and rice is cooked just right and the chicken is tender and has flavor. It's not dry. But honestly, I didn't find the chicken and rice part of the dish to be mind-blowing. What made it mind-blowing was the white sauce. Whatever it is, it is the elixir of the gods. It turned a pretty decent plate of chicken and rice into an oral orgasmic experience. Throw in a dash of their hot sauce and you could survive a nuclear winter in relative warmth. Pro tip, don't stand in the long line if you decide to get the food from one of their street carts (they just opened up an actual restaurant). At night, the Halal Guys have a monopoly on the corners. As long as their yellow-orange bags say "The Halal Guys" on it, they make the same stuff. When I went, I had a cousin who lives in NYC take me and she showed me the line all of the other idiots stood in to get the same stuff I didn't have to stand in line for because the "other cart" was the original one. WHO CARES!? As long as I get my Chicken and Rice quick, it's all good. Price: $6 per plate
How can you go wrong? ?For $6, one of the tastiest meals you will find and did I mention on $6 in New York. ?I actually stop by here sometimes after a disappointing meal in one of NYC's high end restaurants. ?Sometimes I order 2 or 3 for lunch and dinner the next day. ?There might be a cart that's better than this...but I haven't found it yet.
It was pretty darn good. The white sauce is a must and the red sauce is super spicy, but ?definitely made it taste so much better. Can't find myself ever wanting it again, but it was worth a try. The $6 price isn't too bad either.
I literally work half a block away from these guys, yet I can never get there fast enough. Best street food in the city. Only downfall is the protracted lines, Omar can help if you are double parked though (wink wink).
Can't eat it sober, regret it after eating it inebriated. You just can't win with these guys. =/ Here's my go to combo: Lamb and Chicken with 10 squirts white sauce, 5 squirts of BBQ sauce, and 1 squirt of hot sauce if I'm feeling lucky...punk. Skip the pita bread because beach season is coming and we're cutting carbs.
I think Halal Guys really epitomizes the zeitgeist of NYC - overhyped. Yes it's good. No, it's not as great as people make it out to be. I think it will taste immensely better if you are drunk or high and not just getting off work and annoyed that you have to walk through a crowd of tourists that can't walk in a straight line. I thought about giving it only three stars, but 1) it's $6 and will last three meals and 2) the dudes at this stand are just so friendly.
Chicken plate and chicken gyro are great! ?Be sure to get the white sauce. ?Now there are three locations on one corner, so the lines are shorter. ?Try it!
$6.00 LAMB&CHICKEN combo. WHITE SAUCE is clutch. Use HOT SAUCE sparingly. This place doesn't even need a lengthy review. The revie win #'s and ratings are alone enough. One can't nearly ever be able to describe how AMAZING the original HALAL GUYS cart is. This Nor*Cal girl would say HALAL is HELLA bomb.com. A must in NEW YORK. This is the kind of line that is worth waiting for. This is right here is how every FOOD CART should be...
Do not come here if you're a vegetarian.. Horrible falafel. Pretty much the falafel was beyond stale. Beware of the red sauce.. I underestimated it and I am currently dying. This place receives a one star for vegetarians.. For the rest I bet it would receive a 5 star.
Food is good just like most other yelpers would say here but Friday evening's visit wasn't as great of an experience as it had been in the past when I went to these guys regularly for lunch. Bad service as they are trying to serve more people and collect more $.
Amazing--I second all the other faves about this place! I was also lucky enough to have someone bring it to me so I didn't have to wait in the hellacious line. The hot sauce is fiery!
White sauce!!! Kept coming back for that- it just wasn't enough. We ordered the lamb with rice and pita. I can't believe you get so much for just $6.
Ok.. So this is the real Halal Guys food truck! Literally!! There's so many in NY but this is the right one to go to because the food is way better!!! They are also open after bar hours and thats the best time to have Halal!! Lol! I usually get the lamb and chicken mix! And please dont put too much hot sauce! Ppl who never tried halal guys should just have 2 drops or even 1 and that should be hot enough for u! Take my advice!! And please bring some extra white sauce with u, u'll thank me later lol
Price/Food - Came here at 4 in the morning after a long night out some friends. We ordered the chicken and rice and the combo with chicken and lamb. The chicken was decent but the special white sauce tasted like crack! Nothing too special but they are very generous with portions. $6 for chicken/lamb and rice?! Can't go wrong with it. Definitely good drunk food! Service/Location - We went at 4 in the morning and surprisingly there wasn't a wait! - 6th and 53rd!! Don't go to any other one! Recommendation - Chicken and rice with lots of special white sauce. Everyone at the cart was telling me to get the white sauce. WHITE SAUCE FTW!!! - Always a line but they open till 5AM on the weekends so this is a great place to come to after a night of drinking.
The best. Do it like me: - get the mixed plate and tell then you'll add your own sauce - spiral drizzle generous amounts of barbecue sauce and the white sauce - only add 6 drops of the hot sauce if you like spicy food, and ensure the distance between each drop is optimal Grab a seat and stuff your face along with every other New Yorker.
We had an overnight layover on our way back to LAX and decided to book it from JFK. Man, this stand was definitely worth the trip. I got the gyro plate and at 3am after riding in a metal tube all day and being given dry turkey for lunch, it was absolute heaven. I have no idea how to describe the taste other than that it was superb, and that if I was rich and worked in one of the surrounding office buildings, I wouldn't mind having this for lunch all days. Tip: go easy on the hot sauce, I added too much to mine (a tiny squeeze is more than enough) and walked around Time Square and Manhattan with a rock in my stomach.
This food truck though. It's affordable, it's convenient, it's delicious. It doesn't almost always have a line for no reason... even if it's longest lines are usually packed with drunk undergrads needing to soak up their alcohol. Personally, my favorite time to indulge in this halal is on a Saturday afternoon. The line is nonexistent and you can eat on the go... if you get the wrap. I have yet to try to halal over rice, but that's because I love to eat that stuffed pita. If you have the chance to, if you're really drunk, or if you wanna just indulge in some famous cart food - The Halal Guys is basically the best choice.
Cheap and classically NYC: tasty. ? I really miss this place now that I've given up rice for the week. What was I thinking? Okay. Maybe I'll start my rice fast on Tuesday.
Brilliant! Satisfying and value for money!
The best lunch of my life
This spot always saves me on late nights after I'm done partying. Really good food and it's very affordable
Great quick service. The line wait was long but when it was your turn, your order was ready in less than two minutes. Plus one of the workers came on the line and have everyone a free key chain. It was a nice gift for the long wait. The chicken was dry but the lamb was to die for. Love.
You haven't experienced the city if you haven't been to the halal guys. I recommend the chicken and lamb combo and it's well worth the wait!
Love it ! Always the best lamb over rice you can find in the city - hands down. My late night craving satisfied - always for $6. Can't beat it.
This is in a few words the best lamb over rice of the city. Is just amazing. There is always a line here but totally worth it. Sadly for me and my friends last visit here caused us food intoxication. Never before. But still with the risk of get intoxicated I would totally go for it again- drunk probably.
I love streetfood. This is a fantastic choice for really tasty but reasonably priced food in New York. ?I always buy the rice and falafel and love it. My son sways between the lamb and rice and likes both, Enjoy!
the best halal in the city this is the only place will touch lamb for $6 you cant beat it .
I am just now finding out about the hype behind this place! We were staying at the Hilton Midtown on the corner of 6th ave and 53rd street, and we noticed this Halal food stand - BUSY ALL THE TIME!! We were only in NYC for 30 hours until we moved onto our next stop, but we were curious about this food stand the entire time. We asked one of the bell boys, he said that they have the best halal in town! So we had to try. The line was long, but they cook all the meat and then make the bowls. It moves fast once the meat is ready. We got a meat combo - how could you choose just one?!!? Chicken and gyro meat - cooked to perfection! Over a bed of yellow seasoned rice. The best part that everyone is talking about - the WHITE SAUCE! It was generously drizzled all over the bowl. I shared this bowl with three other people (we actually had recently eaten, but we had to try this place before we went back to Chicago) - but the bowls are HUGE and can easily be split by two people (or else there will be a good chance for leftovers!)! The best part - the price! As we were approaching the line, I said to my sisters that I am sure this bowl will cost $12. NOPE! $6!! What!?!?! We tipped him $2 on that six, cause it felt as if we were stealing food for that low low price!
LATE NIGHT MUNCHIES REVIEW: Okay. I have probably not been here for about over a year ?BECAUSE of its location and because of all the halal carts that have opened up all over New York City. ?It just isn't convenient. You have all these Halal Carts every 4 blocks or so, some good, some bad, some REALLY BAD, and some almost on par with The Halal Guys. ?You have some that come with BBQ sauce, Sriracha sauce, free Falafel and some even French Fries. But let's be real for a moment..... I still haven't had halal as good as The Halal Guys. The quality of their meat, the pita bread, even the portion size is ridiculous for the price! You will not be getting that bang for your buck at any other Halal stand in New York City and that is a FACT! A lot of people complain about how heavy it is, or how spicy the hot sauce is... ?just buy and SHARE one then? AND maybe find an alternative to their hot sauce? It's really not that big of a deal. I'm no Halal food enthusiast but I believe that YOU GOTTA GIVE CREDIT WHERE CREDIT IS DUE! I don't think any other business in NYC has as much competition as The Halal Guys and still be able to Rank #1!!!
The line moves fast, they never seem to close, and high. I have lived in NYC long enough to be very opinionated on my halal carts. After visiting dozens of them around the city multiple times, I am now able to accurately Say this one of the best Halal food Ive ever had.
Fame begets fame and I congratulate the Halal Guys on delivering exactly what they promise and creating a landmark in Midtown. ?The food - classic meat and rice and salt and sauce. ?All the elements are there. ?Portion is insane (and at the price the best $/calorie out there). ?High turnover means the meat doesn't get the char you can find elsewhere. ?And it's a great place to show off to visitors, even if you don't indulge. ?They are better street performers than the Central Park dancers in terms of creating a fun mood.
As a New Yorker, I've been to numerous halal carts. Some good, some bad. But I have yet to try the famous 53rd and 6th Halal Guys...until now! I'm usually not in this area and wouldn't make my way here just to get halal food but I really wanted to see what the hype is about. It was about a 10 min wait before I got my food so definitely not as long of a wait as I had expected. The guys were really nice and efficient! I decided to get the Mixed Chicken and Lamb over rice with white sauce. What I noticed about this cart is that they cut their meats into really small pieces, sort of like minced meat. I definitely prefer larger cuts of meat because mincing it makes it taste like cat food. I honestly think the meal would've tasted pretty bad if it wasn't for the white sauce. I found multiple chicken bones (or what I think are chicken bones) in the rice which was pretty unsettling. The saving grace of the meal had to be the pita bread! The way it soaks up the white sauce was just delicious! Overall, I think The Halal Guys is overhyped but $6 for halal food is definitely worth it! Definitely try it out if you're in the area and are looking for cheap food but don't go out of your way just to try it. PS. My favorite halal cart is still the one near St. John's on Union Turnpike (Holla!) The worst one I've had is the one across from Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn...
The best late night food in NYC.
Believe the hype. Their halal is as good as it gets, perfectly seasoned, awesome meat and rice. AMAZING hot sauce. The white sauce is delish and just enough to cool the heat of the spicy sauce. I wish their falafel were on point though... This has definitely become a New York staple. New location on 14th and 2nd!!!!
I visit this place every time I'm in New York. I love the mixed plate with extra sauce and a touch of hot sauce. Every bite is scrumptious, especially for $6. If I had written this review prior to my last visit, definitely give it a five. My last visit to New York was in early September where it was extremely hot and humid; always visited in late fall/winter, never been in the summer. Well I think it was weather as I found the food a bit drier than usual. The pita was dry and not chewy and usual. The hot sauce is as hot as I remember it. Warning...don't over do it cuz it is HOT!
used to be more awesome 10 years ago, now kinda tasteless but thier unlimited sauce makes up for it
Normally I see the signs for "best" this, or "famous" that. No, this place is actually different, as in you get a lot of flavorful food (thus not a tourist trap), although I'm not quite sure if it's the best. For what you pay, which is 6 bucks for chicken over rice, it's a good deal.
I don't like to wait in line because I have the tendency to put my expectation too high. ?And this place meets my expectation. ? Line is long, but the wait is not. ?My boyfriend and I love this place a lot. ?Big portion!
Same great food but keeps getting lesser in quantity. And as usual, the white sauce cups become an issue among other things. Guy made a scene cuz hes an ass and all for the white sauce!?!
Was visiting New York and had heard that the street gyros were amazing. I tried the combo plate and it was great! Reasonable price, good food, and good portions. Bought one dish and it was enough for two! If I'm near Central Park again I'll def come here.
What can I say that thousands of others haven't already said... I AM OBSESSED with the chicken and lamb rice plate. Flavorful, juicy minced up halal goodness on a bed of rice with some greens and pita on the side. Don't forget the infamous white "crack" and red "burn ya ass" sauces. Drizzle me mang!!! Super duper fast and cheap. The perfect meal after a night out on the town. Whenever I'm in New York, The Halal Guys is ALWAYS in my itinerary.
I'm one of those people who is wary of food from street carts. I also feel like some places are overly hyped, that I'm let down when I finally try it. BUT THIS WAS SO GOOD. Admittedly, this was my first time eating halal meat. Once I took my first bite, I thought, "Why did I wait this long to try it out?!" I ordered the chicken and rice, and I covered it in the white sauce. I think the chicken has enough flavor where it could stand alone, but that white sauce...it's a week later and I'm still thinking about it! Loved that it came with pita bread as well. The line moves relatively fast. The Halal Guys is a well-oiled machine; once I placed my order, I received it in less than 15 seconds. Cash only! A great deal for the price. I already want more.
I am of middle eastern descent so I know what this food should taste like when executed properly. The draw here is that they are open at un-godly hours and their hot sauce has some nice bite to it. Sure the white sauce (mostly mayo) tastes alright but let's be honest if you are sober you realize the rice is dry, the meat is sometimes fatty in a bad way and it's really just pandering to boozed up twenty somethings that don't realize there are better late night options and also way better comparably priced middle eastern late night eats available.
I hereby revoke the status of every "elite" Yelper giving these guys 5 stars. 24 hours later, and I still feel nauseous from eating at this place. The Greek "gyro" meat (although seasoned ok) was dry. The falafels were tough, dry, and stale; the worst I've ever tasted. The "white" sauce is just watered-down mayonnaise. Disgusting. Put down the wet mayonnaise and try REAL Greek tzatziki (made from Greek yogurt, cucumber, garlic and olive oil). The only (arguably) positive thing about this place is the quantity of food. But (like any "elite" Yelper who's rated this place 5 stars) it's quantity not quality.
My friend introduce me to this place from that time i am coming here regularly. Every time i have really good food. Their white sauce is really divine, without white sauce you even can't think about food, be careful with hot sauce its really spicy like only chilly paste. ? ?Chicken over rice is my favourite , quantity is generous unlike other halal guys, chicken always fresh and taste good with rice , salad and pita bread. ? ? I saw they use pita bread from packets but its ok.my another favourite is falafel over rice , falafel dumplings are really delicious , they are big and only four pieces are enough to fill your stomach.i wish they could have one halal stand in white plains they i will try it everyday.
I was in NY for 3 days. I ate here twice and loved it both times and would have came again had I had more opportunities to eat. (I was here for a wedding and only had the chance to eat 4 meals of my own choice.) Halal Guys satisfied my late night cravings and they are cheap and fast. No complaints here! If you're visiting, this is a must try!
WOW, this stuff is so good! Maybe i'm a sucker for foreign flavors but this is as good as halal gets. I thought I would go after work, the line would be shorter, not the case. There was about 20 people on line. I went to the halal cart on 45th and 6th ave by the way, and by the time I got my $6 hefty plate of lamb and rice, I could see why this place is so popular. The white sauce is delicious! I was so full half way through this meal but It was so tasty and mouthwatering I did not want to throw it out. Yum, I cant wait to go back! A go to for sure!
Long wait but mos def miss working in Manhattan because of the Halal Guys even the imitators make better chicken and rice compared to the spots in Downtown BK... Too many relatively good spots in Manhattan so I would only go after lunch hour because it was crazy to me to wait in a long line around the corner for chicken and rice but definitely the best in the city period!
It's six bucks for a pie pan full of food. A pie pan of amazing food. I've had halal cart food at others and thought how can this be different? ?It's amazing how different this is. The meat is minced and cut to the point it's almost shredded whereas other halal carts just cut to chunks. The basmati rice is orange and more flavorful, others are red. But that white sauce....it tastes like a super tangy mayo. Probably 500 calories per tablespoon. Doesn't matter, it's 500 calories of life altering food. I've heard this cart can get packed to be an hour wait or more but I was lucky. I got there at 930 and was 4th in line. These guys are fast and in 5 minutes I had completed my transaction and food. Is it the best food ever? ?No. Is it the best food ever for six bucks? ?Yes.
I didn't believe this Yelp listing. 5000+ reviews and almost five stars?! No way! NO WAY! Way. This street food is legitimately forming a painful addiction within me. I come out of my internship every Tuesday and Wednesday evening and despite there consistently being a 20 person line, I get in that line and wait until I get the magical thing that is the Halal Guys' take on falafel over rice. What really makes their food though is the sauce (and every other reviewer has noted that). The white sauce is out of this world and I could easily guzzle a jug of that on its own. The red sauce, however, is surprisingly understated here. It gives the food a nice acidity (AND HEAT!) that otherwise would be missing. It's definitely spicy though, so if you don't like hot, hot, hot food, perhaps best to avoid. Still, for $6, this is the best food you can get in midtown. Swoon.
Great drunchies, open a majority of the time your craving calls for it.
Oh you Halal Guys, where do i even start. This was also our "must go to" place on our NY Foodie Adventure and luckily for us, we had it three times during our stay - also brought some home! Pros: - Cheap! 6 dollars for a gyro & chicken plate - they are not stingy! (so ask for extra white sauce) - heaven in your mouth with every single last bite - big portion, enough to share between two people Cons: - cash only - line is often long, def worth the way - their lids do not fit! (causes a problem when I have to carry it across the country!) Overall: 5 stars. Definitely amazing - I waited in line in 20 degree weather, twice. That was how amazing I thought this place is was For the price (6 dollars), the amount of food you get is amazing, it would really feed two people. I got the chicken and gyro combo and it came with rice, lettuce, onions (optional), tomatoes (optional) some pita bread. If you let them know that you going to eat it right away, they will just add the white sauce on it for you to avoid the hassle which is even better because you can keep telling them to squeeze those bad boys (white sauce) out until forever. Do not underestimate their red sauce, a little goes a long way - at least for me! Brought a combo home for my brother and he was sad that I only brought one! Still my top 5 places to go to when visit NYC again!
amazing
Got sick and had terrible and numerous movements that were compounded by their spicy sauce. If you see the piles of meat stacked on high without regard, you'll understand why. I understand it's a big tourist destination, made popular by Sex and The City - I believe my sisters have told me - and that there have been some celebrity sightings, but save yourself from the confinement of the 20 ft you feel comfortably being away from your toilet, and just walk by and gaze a while.
A huge plate of food for $6! A GOOD plate a food too. The Halal Guys I'm reviewing is right outside of the B building of Laguardia Community college. And they are polite, sanitary, and good cooks.
Seriously addicting. Came here 3 years ago and finally came back today!!! Been thinking about it ever since! There's a halal cart about a block down (same owners, same food, shorter line, & just a different location) I recommend going to that one unless you wanna stand in a long line. I got the chicken plate with extra white sauce!! It is freakin aaaaamazinggg!!! The cooks are also very fast with the order. The chicken is very soft, the white sauce with the spicy sauce gives the perfect combo. The lettuce gives the right crunch. Everything is perfect. MUST TRY!!
LOVE THE COMBINATION plate!!! I always get the chicken& lamb over rice! you can go wrong with all these reviews lol
You just cant skip their chicken rice and white sauce. I had to wait for half hour in queue but it was totally worth, no doubt. Plus its hell inexpenaive. Oh and its cash only. I wish I could eat here often.
it's dirty and gross. that simple.
swerving all this good good!
OMG! Soooo goood. i was a bit skeptical at first because you know.. its a food cart on the streets. But i gave it a chance due to good reviews. I ventured here on 3/5/14. There was no line (probably only 3-4 guys infront of me). I had the chicken and gyro combination platter for $6. Huge portion. I had it for 3 meals. I cant get enough of the pita and white sauce. The red sauce was too dangerous for me. Too hot for my taste but the hubby liked it. I plan on coming back soon since im craving it. And I live 2 hours away :(
Tasty food!!!!!!!! It may not be good for you, but it tastes fantastic! They make it quick, right in front of you, and make sure to speak to you and ask how your day is going..... Will definitely go back!
Best chicken on rice hands down. There are two lines on opposite sides on the street thus make sure you look for the shorter line! Be careful of the hot sauce - it can get really bad!
Not a big fan of chicken and rice but when I do have it, I always end up going to 53rd and 6th. And I always get the combo platter to go and get as much white sauce on the side as you want! They have it in little containers on the side of the cart and the hot sauce too. Lines are always long but service is semi fast so nothing to complain about there. I feel like this cart is a must visit for everyone that visits New York.
I'm Middle Eastern so I'm always looking for good Middle Eastern food wherever I go. ?The bad news: this isn't really comparable to street food you would buy in the middle east. ?The good news: the food is excellent, delicious, and cheap! ?It's convenient when you want something simple, or I would imagine, when you're drunk leaving the bars in the wee hours of the morning looking for a midnight snack. One piece of advice: BEWARE OF THE HOT SAUCE - it's actually very hot!
Great lunch option whether you are looking for halal or not. I always have them make it spicy. While there are a lot of halal food truck options, these guys still stand out.
WOW!! Really great food at a great price! Don't be intimated by the line, it moves quick. Make sure to have your order ready. cash only!
The lamb over rice offers huge portions, and the ingredients are higher quality than your average street vendor. ?With such a long wait though, it kind of defeats the purpose of stopping at a street vendor.
I have been hearing about these guys for over a year, yesterday was the first time I had an opportunity to taste the famous chicken over rice. There was a long line, but moved rather quickly. I picked up two chicken over rice, it of course came with the famous white & red sauces. Let me get to the bottom line - the food is average at best. The rice and chicken are bland. I'm pretty sure most of the visitors try to for the hype and locals go for it for the price. I can check it off my bucket list, and never return for a repeat.
Great food! Cheap easy and quick( if there's no line). Definitely must have when I visit the city.
don't forget to bring lots of water because your mouth will be on fire.
Cheapest meal in NYC. ?Cheap and GOOD. ?They aren't kidding about the white sauce. ?We got there around midnight and there was a line about 20 people deep that only took 5 minutes to get through. ?We got the mixed plate and shared. ?This will definitely be a place we stop at next time we are in NYC as well. ?There are some fakes that "look" like them and call themselves the original but just look for the line and you'll be in the right place
Can't say anything that hasn't been said before - just good food that you'll always want more of. That white sauce. Mmmmm.
Amazeballs. ?Don't know what else to say, but their truck lures me in whenever I'm in the area. ?I wish the lines weren't so long but what can you do?
Perfect for lunch, after school snack or late nights. There is an extremely long line especially after 2AM however it's worth the wait. One of the best halal carts in NYC.
WARNING - HOT SAUCE IS SUPER SPICY!!! ? If there is anything you take away from this review, it is that the hot sauce is spicy! Did I say the hot sauce is super spicy? Being an asian who can tolerate very high levels of heat, I made the mistake of lathering my food in the hot sauce. ?My bowels were singing for the rest of the night. ?I seriously think the halal guys have created the ultimate cure for constipation. What food I did taste was good. ?But I ultimately gave the rest away to a hobo (whom I warned repeatedly the possible consequences of eating the food). Great eat for those visitors-on-budget who want to eat something other than pizza.
best "after drinking at a bar/club" spot
It's good! ?they are very consistent! ?My fiance can not get enough it them...it's so good they she was willing to go 3 times when we were in NY. ?We were only in NY 1 1/2 days lol. ?This girl is a true fan! ?Their lamb and rice is so good. The only thing i didnt like is their attitude when I asked them for more sauce. ?I guess they are busy but still they didnt give me enough.
The gyro + felafel platter stinks. Not impressed to say the least. I see a line outside my office window so decided to check it out. Arrived early (before 1145am) & the line barely moves. Given the talent walking down sixth avenue and pleasant weather I cannot complain about the line which DID NOT factor into this review. In fact I question what the other reviewers are smoking, but realize if your a tourist from middle america you MAYBE impressed with this place. Yet I'm sure your the same individual who is impressed with Carlos from queens who curses at you in a spider man costume via Time Square. The gyro does not look like gyro, its chopped up and looks more apropos for my dog's bowl. The felafel is straight up TRASH. SO DRY, SO tough to swallow, kind of like the preppy blue blood personality one would encounter in Nantucket. Anyway, yes the white sauce is good, probably a gazillion calories and was only way I could possibly crush this sandwich. The gentleman counting money seemed to have issues with larger bills and overall mathematics when it came to processing my order. I would not go back, EVER. However kudos goes to these gentleman who clearly remind of the residents of Avenue H & Ocean Parkway in Brooklyn. I want to stress I am not a hater, only write on yelp when I feel compelled and given how un-compelling this food is I strongly recommend other options, pretty sure cat food would taste better.
my oh my oh my. Where do I begin with these "Halal Guys." I've had the chicken and rice, and also the lamb and rice... both delicious! I usually get the combination of the two. ?But what makes these plates? THE WHITE SAUCE!!! oooh yes! I don't know exactly what the creamy goodness is, mayo mixed with something else (probably not the healthiest, but who cares it tastes great). ?Everything is made to order, right in front of you. ?Halal guys is ?known to have long lines, so they've expanded and started 2 other carts along the same block-- theres a reason.... its damn good! There are times now that I seriously crave Halal guys late at night.... best part about that is they are opened late!! ?Mind you, this is the BEST DRUNK FOOD ever! You'll see a lot of people stopping by Halal Guys after drinking.
I've always been told "you must try the chicken and rice when you go down to New York City". I must say, this has been a great experience, loved the food!
I went to the 53rd and 7th location Saturday around 5:30pm, and surprisingly there was no line. After triple checking that I wasn't at some imposter cart, I ordered the combo plate - rice, iceberg lettuce, diced tomatoes, sliced pita, and a generous portion each of shredded chicken and lamb. You can choose to have them drizzle the sauce on for you, but I opted for the little to-go cartons. Out of the plate, the only thing I liked was the lamb, which was really juicy and packed with flavor. The chicken was bland and extremely dry - I ended up just pushing it to the side so it wouldn't ruin the rest of the experience. The storebought pita had been steamed to mush by the time I got back, so I pushed that aside too. I ended up having a lamb salad haha, which was decent only because of how good the lamb was. Maybe it would have been better with their white sauce, but it strangely tasted like ranch, which I really dislike. If I ever go back, I'd probably just get the lamb with the lettuce and tomatoes and add some veggies at home - that would definitely feed 2-3 people.
are we being fooled by the long lines and the "hype" or is this place really that good? I was surprised with how dry the chicken and rice was. It is the white sauce, filled with ?a million calories, that really makes this plate good and edible. Without the sauces, it would be your plain boiled chicken with slightly seasoned rice. However, i must say the white sauce is REALLY good, and fooled me into thinking the rice and chicken was actually seasoned well. I would go back, but only if I was around the area. I paid a $36 cab ride to get this $6 plate of chicken, and i can't say it was necessarily worth it. I am pretty sure there are a lot of underrated chicken and rice food stands that make a better rendition of this plate, but because they don't have lines wrapping around the corner, people won't try them. The line wasn't too long for us. There were probably 30 people, and we got our food within 6 minutes.
This cart is the best, after midnight be prepared to wait and wait except no other Halal ssubstitutions
Very good Halal. Feels safer knowing that workers are cleaning their hands in an established location, rather than on a street-cart. Very clean environment. And the halal just hits the spot! Definitely will return!
Amazing!!! Wish we had this in the DC area but kinda glad we don't because I'd weigh like 300lbs ^.^ Skip the red sauce and overdo the white sauce!
Hands down the best halel in the city. Just be careful with the hot sauce! There a reason why they only give you a small amount.
This is a MUST HAVE if you are ever in NYC. Before I even visited NYC, everyone who's been there told me I have to try the Halal Guys and they said the white sauce is bomb. I've never had this type of cuisine before so I didn't exactly know what to expect. But if everyone recommended it, I had to try it. After leaving a club, my NY friend said lets go check out the Halal Guys. It was 2AM and raining so I wasn't expecting a lot of people at their stand. ?However, to my astonishment, there was a line (although not their usual LONG line that wraps around--thank goodness!) I got the mixed meat and loaded it up with "white" sauce. They guys cooking and serving were friendly and explained to me, the "tourist" about everything they served. My friend and I found shelter from the rain and sat next to a building stuffing our faces with this amazing mixture of meat, lettuce, white sauce, etc. I think this was the BEST meal I had on my NYC trip. Till this day I still think about the Halal guys and I've told my friends who are visiting NY for the first time that they MUST HAVE the halal from the Halal Guys! It's just that delicious that next time I go to NYC, I am definitely bringing a bowl back with me to LV!!!
Amazing food !
I'm not sure if I can add to what's already been said about this place. It's just so good, by far the best chicken and rice place. They've definitely expanded since the last time I've been here, which was a year and a half ago. Now they have several food stands all around the intersection of 53rd and 6th. The portion size is very large, a fantastic deal for only $6 (cash only). Usually I eat half, then add some more of the white yogurt sauce and take it home to eat at a later time. Do be careful when adding hot sauce to your food. It's very spicy, even for one who loves adding spice to food like me.
The hype is real. Best $6 spent EVER! I was pre-warned about the wait, so I prepared myself to endure however long the line was going to be. I arrived around 10pm and there was about 10 people ahead of us. Line went super quick! The chicken & rice came out just as quick too. We drenched it in white sauce, and it still wasn't enough. That sauce is DIIIIVVVIIINNEE! The hot sauce is good too, but it's brutal so be sure to dab it on with your fork. No matter how macho your spicy level is, just don't do it. No need to ruin good food with your pride ;] BIG portions! I couldn't finish it in one sitting so I saved it and ate it a few hours after and it was still good! I actually thought it tasted a bit better. Maybe cause the white sauce soaked in to the rice. Ha! If you're in the area, you MUST try!
The best food cart!!!
Forget the line and don't worry about finding the right one (they're all pretty good). ?This is definitely a stop worth visiting if your in the area.
Always a good eat after a long night of partying. When I first had their chicken and rice my stomach wasn't too used to the sauce so it didn't settle too well, but now it goes down with no problem! The line moves relatively fast and its a cheap eat! Whenever out of town friends come to visit this is a place they all want to try. Beware of the hot sauce, its very spicy but delicious.
The scene: Midtown, 2007 The players: Myself, my roommate The action: happy hour drinks and a surprisingly responsible early night. "Let's go home," we agreed, "We've had our fun." But what's this? Hunger doth stir our stomachs! We cannot wait the hour-long ride back to deep Queens. No matter, say we stalwart lads, a mere street meat nosh will sustain us till dinner! Say, this cart has a pretty good line for this late after work. The food must be good. We order two gyros and sit down nearby to eat. The next few minutes are a blur. ...as I came back to consciousness with the last morsel of gyro dancing on my tongue, I turn to my left to see my roommate take the last bite of his with the expression of a heroin addict spiking after eight years clean. ? "Are we drunker than we thought, or was that hands down the greatest gyro you've ever had?" "No. Definitely that. That one." Three days later I got an email from him at work. Like me, he hadn't been able to stop thinking about Halal Guys and had googled them to divine the source of their magicks. "Apparently they've won every single New Yorker's heart," he said. Amen. All's well that ends well. EXEUNT all.
Truly the best especially if you love spicey food!!! ?Lines may look intimidating but they go fast...really fast! My fave is chicken and rice with hot sauce and a ill white sauce :) enjoy
Must get "Chicken and Rice" with extra white sauce. The lines will be long, but it will be worth it. ?There will be two Halal Guys carts on the corner. ?Look for the yellow bag and the cart with the flagship sign. ?The line will be longer, but your chicken and rice will be from the original cart. ? $7 dollars will get you a delicious hot plate of delicious chicken, rice, pita bread and white sauce for the mixing. ? This place is a MUST EAT while visiting New York City!
Quite good halal meats, fresh and reallyyyyy tasty. But will definitely hit your stomach bad next day for bathroom trip...which means there is a lot of msg and unfresh meat going around with them. 5/5 for taste, 2/5 for freshness I would say. But it is definitely the cheapest full meal you get in the city and good late night food.
THE BEST chicken and rice you can get anywhere! I'm from NJ and my friends and I make frequent trips to NYC just to get some of this because we've yet to find better halal anywhere close to us. 5 stars because it's so cheap, satisfying, and opened late. You can also ask for extra veggies! They usually have peppers, onions, etc that you can get on the side. Hot sauce is VERY spicy so squeeze with caution. There is no such thing as too much white sauce though!
Ate this three nights in a row, plus some left over for breakfast. Yes, they are that good. I find getting the chicken and lamb separate is better than the combination. As you can see from my pic, I lathered the white sauce on them. I wish I could ship myself a year's supply of this!!!
These dudes are overrated. Not bad halal by any means, but not particularly impressive either. I can think of five other equal or better carts off the top of my head. I've had The Halal Guys about 4 of 5 times, and every time I wonder why I just waited in a long line of raving fanatics (who must have read all these yelp reviews). With little vegetables and scarce sides, Halal Guys definitely don't stand out for their flavors. It's my understanding that they're so acclaimed for being open late and giving bigger portions than most. Halal food, however is not McDonalds. I don't agree that food should be celebrated for quantity over quality. Definitely not the best halal cart in NYC! (Shout out to Dewan's cart on 23rd between Park and Lexington)
Holy tits mcgee this place is the bomb dot com It's the "best" halal cart in NYC Huge portions, delicious meats, great sauces. Be careful of the hot sauce, that shit burns on the way in (and out)
5:44 p.m: Heading to the D train at 50th to head home 5:46 p.m: Walk by generic hot dog stand and almost succumb to buying what may pass as rubber on a bad day 5:48 p.m: Fuck, I always forget the northernmost entrance to the D is always closed 5:49 p.m: Stare at the model wearing a ridiculous lack of clothing in 38 degree weather 5:50 p.m: Stop, pause, inhale. Oh...that smell. I almost forgot about the smell of chicken and lamb co-mingling in the best duo since Calvin&Hobbes. Even with a line of 50 people deep and the slower Sunday servers, I'm willing to park my butt and queue for some halal cart. The white sauce is a must but if you want to be an adult, man up and put mad hot sauce in your plate for optimal consumption. I've lived on spicy food all my life and think my taste buds are permanently singed off but this hot sauce makes me cry in the best of ways.
I ? ? !@#$%ing ? LOVE THIS PLACE!!!! Def buy the chicken and gyro with white sauce. ?You can't go wrong.
Hands down the best drunk food I've had so far. I almost regret introducing this to my out of town friends, because every time I go down to the DMV to visit I have to bring at least 5 combo orders with extra white sauce and hot sauce with me! Here's a couple things I've noticed. I got there at like 3:50AM once and was able to score a plate. But right at 4AM (I believe) the Halal guys literally close shop no matter how many people are in line and quickly pack everything and load the car and drive away. Everyone was kind of stunned but I'm sure that's the only way to handle a possibly hostile, drunk, and hungry crowd. So get there before 4! Also, the line on the SW corner of the street is always longer so go ahead and hit up the SE side. For some reason people believe they are fakes. PS - That white sauce is CRACK!
Good Halal better than average. But its halal how much can you do with curry, chicken and a pita. Good to try but nothing to wait on a long line about i'm sorry not that serious. Would i run back to this cart no.... Would i walk at a reasonable pace if i'm in the area yes.
It's a lot of food for six bucks (the platter). Great NYC drunk food? Or the greatest NYC drunk food? It's a tradition amongst jersey people to stop by this truck after a night of drinking. Only problems are that it has long lines over the Friday and Saturday party nights and since it is a food truck, you gotta eat it outside. But it's 6 bucks so stop your crying. Although, since you're gonna be drunk and they're is no bathroom, beware for the possible public urination ticket.
Awesome. This is the ONLY halal that I like. Their chicken over rice is spot on! cheap, good portions, fresh and not overly greasy! There is always a line here, but they are quite fast with their service. I love buying my halal and indulging it at central park in the warmer months. Warning: go easy on the spicy sauce! white sauce is yummy too.
A New York City essential. So good! the white sauce is to die for. Got the combo (chicken and lamb). Hot Sauce is pretty hot. Just fair warning that it may not settle well. Your taste buds will be thanking you though.
Newbies-PLEASE...know what you want before you get to the front of the line (idiot tourists-bleck) Sometimes, it's better to go one block down-same guys, to avoid the line on 6th. Gyro is better than the chicken-get extra white sauce before they close the lid! Unbeatable pricing-I feel like I am robbing them every time I pay.
Surprisingly there still was a long customer line for Halal Guys at mid night. The taste is not bad. However, there is one problem, the rice is too dry, it may drive you crazy if you don't add a lot of sauce on the rice(and I saw a lot of people added quarters of ranch sauce there) or not have a can of soda with this. ?In my opinion, it is ok, basic on the low price, but unfortunately,it isn't good enough to make me to buy that again at mid night.
It's a popular street food cart and for some reason always a line, so I guess this is what attracts people to eat there. The food honestly is NOT that good. The meat is NOT spiced at all and the only thing that gives the food any taste is that White Sauce. This is why people drown it over the food. It's tastes a lot like mayonnaise and makes me natious after a few bites. ? ?It's simple to order since they only have lamb, chicken or both on rice. ?It's a little disgusting to eat there in 90 degrees weather when the workers sweating faces drips in the food but I guess that's what u get eating from a food cart.
I can't say isn't worth it to buy a big dish that fit two people for 6 or 7 dolars. It has a good flavor and the meat is very well prepared. always with big lines and people eating in the street. I liked the experience, but if the vary more in the food that they put in the plate is better!
Late night, dinner time, lunch time... If you're into this street cart, cheap food, amazing smells then The Halal Guys is for you. Yes believe the hype, I ordered the combination over rice, everything was well-seasoned and whenever you can get EXTRA white sauce. Second time I ordered just the chicken and rice and it was as great as the first time. Talk about consistency cooking in big batches. Now I know why people crave this so much when they come back home. Let the Halal Guys withdrawals begin, and I haven't even left NY!
This food cart is bomb. There are so many food carts in NYC that its impossible to choose from just randomly. Thanks to my trusty Yelp Friends I found the One. This cart is indeed on 53rd and 7th and there was hardly a line. Granted, it was also like 2 am so I can't tell you if there is usually one earlier. According to their sign this is another location from their very popular 53rd and 6th ave original location. There are specific hours from their sign (which i took a picture of but the words are too small): Hours: 53rd and 6th - SE 10am-4AM, 53 & 7th - same (Fri & Sat tll 5 am). 53rd and 6th SW corner - 7PM-4AM. We got the Mix option which is chicken with gyro over rice ($6) and it comes with a little lettuce and onions with pita on top. The white sauce and the hot sauce was on the side for us which I actually preferred than it smothering over everything. MY TIP is to mix the white sauce and hot sauce first to get a good mixture instead of pouring them both on it separately - it makes it more like a spicy mayo but not really spicy mayo. Also the hot sauce is dangerous!! If you are a lightweight with spices, then please do your self a favor before smothering it in it. It might actually kill your taste buds. (BUT IT BURNS SO GOOD!!) Overall it was pretty flippin good deal for some perfectly seasoned chicken and gyro and the fresh pita. Its a steal at $6 for a meal that can basically split into 2 if you aren't super hungry in the city.
The Halal Guys own 53rd street! A trusted name, affordable prices, huge portions -- a recipe for success in an overwhelming neighborhood with underwhelming options at overwhelming prices for underwhelming quality. This location is very close to Carnegie Hall, so I can just pick up my regular order (Chicken, Rice, Salad, Barbecue Sauce) on my way home, and even have leftovers for lunch the following afternoon, all for $5! The guys who run the cart are very friendly, which is definitely an added bonus, but to be honest, I'd put up with bad personalities for this deal, but thankfully I don't have to.
All the time I walk by this place I feel like buying a meal even if I'm full that's how good these guys are. This is the freshest halal food off the street you would get in NYC. It is addicting !!
The best late night meal you could ever have. ?It's great after a night of hanging out, drinking, or dancing with friends. ?Usually, around the early A.M.s, there'll be a long line, but don't let that discourage you! ?The line goes by ridiculously quickly. ?On another note, the white sauce elevates the chicken and rice to a whole other level. ?Yum! ?Slather that stuff on! ?Just be warned that their hot sauce is actually hot. ?It's actually spicy as hell! ?Start with a couple drops at first before adding more. ?The first time I got chicken and rice, I had no idea, so I made the horrendous mistake of pouring quite a lot of hot sauce into my platter. ?It wasn't long before tears were streaming down my face, but that didn't stop me from eating the rest of my meal!
The food is pretty good but the price to serving ratio is much better which could be ?huge reason why they do so well compared to the rest of the halal cart competition midtown. Rice however tastes like it came out of a plastic bag and was fried for some reason, lacking in a fresh taste but overall its a great place for lunch or dinner stop with college friends!
Being that it was our first time in NYC, we just HAD to visit this place. The line wasn't obnoxiously long, but well worth the wait! Don't get me wrong, I was hesitant to try a food cart, but man, I'm sure glad I did. By far, THE BEST FOOD WE ATE IN NYC. They are efficient, fast, and man do they give a ton of food. I would go back to NYC just for this.
Holy Jesus Christ. The first time I went to New York I actually walked right by and wondered what the line-up was for. I came here first thing in the morning on my second trip to New York and I was not disappointed. "It's just like shawarma, right? How good could it get?" Really. Fucking. Good. Best street meat ever. The first time I came I got chicken/gyros over rice. The second time, I just got the chicken. White sauce is fantastic. Red sauce is actually pretty spicy. I really wish they'd come to Toronto, but I know they probably never will. Best $6 I've ever spent in my life.
The Halal Guys really serve good food, i always order chicken over rice , portion size is really big. It come with lettuce 2 white sauce n one hot sauce. The white sauce they have its amazing. Its truly give taste to that dish. Moufh full of flavour. ? ? These guys are really diffrent ?their is so much diffrence in food quality. Halal guys have good quality rice n chicken ?and well seasoned. ? ? ?They have lamb, falafel n beef also., service is quick and friendly. Chicken over rice is only for $6 great deal.
It is the best! Love the sauce and hot sauce, but be careful not to put too much hot sauce.
You get plenty of food for your money here. Good late night eat after the bar/club. I recommend the mix bowl over rice and its secret white sauce. Some may find it a bit salty, so have a drink ready.
I always go to the one on 53rd and 6th. I've been going here for 2 years now and while I've noticed they have been cheap about their sauces over time, the bomb finally hit last friday: they wanted a dollar for more white sauce. That is crazy --- i will not go here anymore out of principle. How can you charge a dollar for one more white sauce? I am not even including the attitude they gave me for asking for more sauce..... Craziness if you ask me...
It's simply the best halal in New York.
I almost missed my flight home just to have this one more time before I left. Yes, its THAT serious. ?You think food card in NYC, Yuck. SIKE!! Definitely not, this is probably the best thing I've ever had in New York and so randomly I crave this so bad it makes me crazy! I always just get the chicken and rice plate and ask for 2 or 3 more white sauces and one more of the red one, and it is just, to die for! Haha, cant wait until I visit New York again, just to have this (Oh, and to visit my wonderful fam of course haha)!
Best meal I had during my trip to Manhattan. Do yourself a favor and listen to the the rest of the reviews, get both the white and hot sauce and revel in street food deliciousness. I got the sandwich cause I love my food wrapped in more food and I only had a $5 bill, but I assume the platter of amazingness is equally good. Definitely coming back.
Best street food in the city. Actually it's the only place I will eat halal street food from .
Amazing bang for your buck. Food is fresher and way less greasy than other Halal Stands. The line is always long but it's so worth the wait. Love these guys they are fast and considerate despite how fast they handle orders and your food they make sure you have everything you need. They are always super busy.
The best halal food in the city hands down. The meat is good. The pita is good. The sauce is good. Everything that comes in that tin platter is amazing. The line may be long at times. But they just opened shop by my job which makes things a lot easier for me. Especially when I'm craving their delicious food!
Honestly... only good when you're drunk. Wouldn't go out of my way to get it though
I absolutely love this place ... I used to eat here almost every week ,Just $6 for a dish . Must try Lamb over rice is owsome.
Everyone stands in the line, while hillariously the carts on the sides of them bring over their cooked chicken, people never cease to amaze me, it's a cattle call here, you gotta go through the big line yet the other 2 stands are cooking the chicken for them.. hillarious. Yes i stood in the long line still.. because i am cattle. rofl AMAZING AS ALWAYS
A must try place when in NYC! ?Inexpensive and ton of food. Look for the food cart. Be sure to ask for extra white sauce if getting to go. ?Adds a lot of flavor. They only take cash. So be prepared.
New York's best fine dining establishment.
So nice people, and a lot& good food
Missing the food right about now. Delicious, mouthwatering lamb and chicken over rice for only $6... can be made as spicy as you want. I'm salivating just thinking about the addicting red sauce (what is in that stuff??). The lines aren't as long in winter, and nothing like hot spicy food to warm you up.
A must stop in NYC! ?Always a long line but totally worth the wait.
Oh Halal guys. I'm not sure what you put in your food cart. That amazing yogurt and hot sauce. Well seasoned chicken and lamb. Rice. I mean who thought something so simple could be this addicting. Truly comfort food. Drunk or sober.
It was on our first day here in New York, and we had it for dinner before starting our night. We all ordered the chicken and gyro bowl. At first, I thought " I don't get the hype here. It's good, but not mindblowing." I thought the white sauce was a little too much and I underestimated the hot sauce by pouring 3 of those into my bowl. It kind of killed it for me. You know whats funny though? I found myself craving the halal guys everyday after that. I realized I really enjoyed how comforting the food was. All day, All I could think about was wanting some of the red rice with the moist chicken. I really like the pita bread they give you too. Maybe I just overdid it on the white and hot sauce that I didn't really enjoy it as much as I would've. ?I tried to get my fix before leaving NYC to see if I really truly love the food here or it was just my appetite messing with me. When it came to my last chance to try it again, the line was way too long and our flight was coming up. I wasn't able to try it again. I guess I'll never know until I visit NYC again.
The line is incredibly long but totally worth the wait. ?Tastes even better after 2am. ?If you can't take heat, skip the hot sauce because your tongue will die a little. ?The goop of white sauce really isn't as fattening as it appears to be, it's mostly greek yogurt. ?It's only $5 and you get you protein's worth.
It's quite obvious by the block long line that it doesn't get better in NYC as far as street food is concerned. Chicken and rice with extra white sauce! I'm salivating just thinking about it.
My go to spot for late night eats. Very filling and generous portion for the price especially in NYC. The white sauce is to die for. Don't be fooled by the imitations in that are in the area. If its not a yellow shopping bag then it's the wrong place!
This place was awesome! ?Super cheap and amazingly good food.
Set aside an hour and wait in line. ?Worth the wait, but it's a wait. ? Worth it though. A great introduction into street food as well. ?Lamb over rice. Wow.
The best night snack in NY u rly need to try it. Just 6 dollars. It's worth to taste it. I like chicken & gyro together. The sauce is pretty good. I like sooooooo much.
Basically , if 1. You are very hungry 2. You want eat some rice 3. You can't wait Just come Chicken bowl are the most people ordered. Pay then get yours very fast. the rice and the chicken are nothing ?special. HOWEVER, all the spirits are hiding in the sources at side of the truck. BBQ?SPICY?MAYO One thing I have to tell you is: the SPICY source is damn HOT. I can't believe anyone ?who try it without any drinks. Actually I really don't like it , drives me crazy... But I still have a satisfied dinner with the other people sit around there.
This place always hits the spot. ?With new locations, it's more convenient to get some chicken and rice. ?Always add the mystery white sauce.
Stood in the freezing cold in December to eat here but was definitely worth it! Really tasty - will definitely return. Lines are crazy long but cant take a star away for that.
I liked it when I was drunk. When I went to eat it sober and saw how gelatinous the white sauce becomes when in the hot tin ..I wanted to kill myself. That is all... Staff is friendly!
They picked out my food for me (I think it was the chicken and beef mixed with rice and special sauce). Then they gave me a cute key chain! (Big Plus: I did not get food poisoning like I did at the last place I ate halal food at) Yay!
Still as good as I remember it. That white sauce + hot sauce combination is to die for. Get the mix plate for the best deal! FYI Apparently they have bought out other stands and have physical store locations now so its more easily accessible. Still, the line seems to be longest at the original.
Gahhh I can't get enough of this place. ?But I'll travel 2,700+ miles for this stuff any day. Kidding! (Sorta, not really) Definitely a must-eat on your trip to NY. The guys are super chill too, making your experience awesome. GET THE WHITE SAUCE! Also, both the chicken and gyro are delicious! Can't go wrong here.
These guys need no more reviews (5000+), no more pictures, and no introduction. So why even bother? Cuz this rounds out my street meat week in the heat. Who else to finish with than the ones who inspired it all in the first place. The white SAUCE is addictive like New Jack City's crack epidemic, think Pookie w/ his white lips. FYI: It melts into what must be soybean oil if you microwave it by itself and it tastes much like an amped up ranch dressing. ?The hot sauce is molten red paste. ?Afraid of being on a NYC street at night? No prob, this volcanic magma is as good as pepper spray. The MEATS are as good as they get in a tin. Moist, small bits of chicken burst with flavor. Note: the chicken is a little lower grade than some of the rivals, like the imposter cart (NY's best). ?The kebab meat is finely minced and picks up loads of greasy flavor because of it and can get more steel griddle cooked texture too. The RICE is as atomic orange as the trim on a Knick's jersey. With awesome individual grain texture and deep salty/seasoned flavors, this stuff had to have been cooked in some serious grease to get this type of separation. The VEGGIES are not fancy, not a salad, and not trying to make any false pretenses of being anything but a provider of texture and cooling effect. Of you want vinaigrette, sliced beets, olives, look elsewhere. ?This place gives iceberg. Dollar per calorie they match toe to toe with the most ravenous competitor, with only the imposter truck (New York's Best) tying them in value. ?(For the same $6, I think I got more full off of the imposter truck's combo platter though.) So how good are they really? The long lines are around the clock, but less so in some other locations than 53rd & 6th. They just signed a franchise deal w/ a company that nationalized Five Guys burgers and branches are going out west like Tupac did. Good because my friends and family will no longer need me to bring back these circular tin platters for them on my flights across the country. ? Note: because The Halal Guys offer their sauces in individualized plastic containers (and they are not cheap about giving you more) and thus, they are the only halal street meat I know of that has this cross country portability! Yet another win for this famed chain of carts. My street meat week is over and the verdict is out...TSA, guess what platters I'm harboring?
I'm a huge fan of halal food and for the first time I finally got to try the famous Halal Guys everyone's been raving about. I'll keep this short and simple...food was AMAZING!!! I've had my fair share of lamb over rice throughout the city, queens you name it. And this by far has to be theee best halal food I've had.
Good! Nothing more to say
Not sure if it's crack or food.
Great amount of tasty food at a very reasonable price! Good job guys!
The number of ppl who have reviewed this place should be enough for you to consider lining up for this food cart! THE HYPE IS REAL. It's sooooo amazing. I've got to find a place in the OC/LA that can fulfill my cravings when I need it!!! Ordered half chicken & half lamb over rice. An excellent combination! I can get tired of chicken fast so it was perfect. Also it was about 6 or 7 bucks and they give you A LOT!! I mean.. You really can't beat it. GO EASY on the red sauce, it is good but it is fiiiiyaaa!!! & Everyone has said it already but ... WHITE SAUCE!! Get extra! :P not everyone has mentioned the bread they give too, but it's so good! I wish they gave more of it haha. Hands down a must have when in NYC! Don't be intimidated by the long line - it moves ridiculously fast!
Absolutely adore this place. The food is great. A friend brought me here while I was on vacation. This was during January, it was freezing cold out, but seeing how there was 30+ people waiting in the freezing weather, it fully reassured me of our choice! If you didn't already know, this is a food truck. The mixed gyro plates are to die for. I have yet to find a place in Washington State that could compete on the same level as The Halal Guys. They make their own hot sauce and white sauce (blended flavors of ranch and yogurt). You would think it's silly to get this excited over condiments, but this is one of those situations where you have to try it first before you would understand. It wasn't until I took my first bite to realize the freezing weather (16F ?) was worth enduring. Pros: 1. Great food 2. They have an efficient system in place - 4 people cooking, 1 packing the food, 1 taking orders/cashiering 3. Cheap, I MEAN CHEAP 4. They know the meaning of spicy Cons: NONE
Never had ?halal before, but I was told that this was the place to be. There are several locations, and they are all rarely seen without a line. I ordered the gyro/chicken over rice, and omg it was amazing...tender and fragrant meats that pair so nicely with the equally fragrant rice (WHAT do they put in there...crack?!) that's all tied together with their famous white sauce--makes me want to keep eating!! Also, VERY well priced, as one bowl can pretty much feed 2-3 people! Even my health-conscious friend inhaled half of it on her own! Amazing. I want some right now argh!!
Really? I don't know why people stand on this long line to get this "amazing" (most overrated word) food, when I threw mine in the trash. I waited on a long line to see what all the hooplah was about... I asked for no white sauce because they don't even tell you what it is or ask if you even want any - they just drown your food in it. The rice and chicken on its own has no flavor. Food that can't stand on its own without the use of condiments is really not good food. I was better off with a PBJ sandwich... If you're broke, starving, or just want to do what everyone else is doing, go for it. If you're looking for good street vendor food, there are better places to indulge...
Every time I visit NYC - this is a must EAT. ?After the club, or after any night event - I can eat here. ?For $6, cannot go wrong with a chicken plate. ?Not really a fan of lamb, so I always order all chicken. ?You get a large amount of halal chicken, rice, lettuce, few slices of pita bread - cannot forget their WHITE SAUCE and their spicy red sauce. ?I only do a few drops of the spicy red sauce, cause boy that sauce is HOT AND SPICY. ?Eat it for late night muchie and then breakfast the next morning - and it's still good!
To die so yummy! The mix of meat, rice, sauce, so good!! A must when visiting NY. ?Line usually goes quick, just have to find a spot to sit and enjoy it! So worth it!
I just have to say that the hype is real. ?Compared to other halal cart/stands, The Halal Guys are actually almost like an outdoor restaurant. They have the most customers I've ever seen for street vendor food. When I got here the line was super long. It took at least 15 minutes to get the food and that's saying something. With the amount of customers they have, it was a surprise that I got my food so fast. They are so fast with your food and it's well worth it. $6 for a bunch of food. I can eat and I still had leftovers. I ate about half and I was already full. I took the rest home for dinner. One of the most awesome features of this food cart is the fact that they allow you to add additional sauce. You can add as much as you see fit. The white sauce is tangy and almost ranch-like. The hot sauce is all heat, but it's still a must-try.
service quality has gone down. They used to be polite and give you a perfectly packaged meal that you could grab and take with you, now they kind of just throw an open plate of food at you: if you want sauce lids or bags go to the side of the cart and get it yourself. And let's be honest, it's still cart food. If you've never been there it's definitely worth it and I would still highly recommend it to out of towners but it's just not my go to spot for late night study munchies anymore.
Strolling down the busy streets of new york city, i stumbled upon this streed food vender. It smelled sooooo delish that i had to stop my power walking and see what it was. The menu is small and everything is under $10. The line was sooo long. There was at least ~20 people before me. Soooooo worth the wait!!!!!!!!!! I'm so glad I got to try this before leaving ny.
Was in NYC for only 5 days and I knew I had to make room to eat at this food cart. My family ate ramen tonight and I decided to skip dinner to wait and give The Halal Guys a try. Boy, I'm sure glad I did. I had to try both the chicken and gyro, and it was such a good deal for only $6! Everything was just so tender and packed with flavor. It was just the perfect combo. I honestly wish I could eat this every week for foreverrrr. The pita bread was surprising soft and chewy. Better than what most sit down restaurants serve you. The guys were so friendly and when I told them I made a journey just to eat there, they wanted to take a picture. Oh, and last but not least, the white sauce. I mixed it with the hot hot sauce, which made the most perfect bite and right amount of heat. It added a creaminess that couldn't be beat. Please run your cart to LA. Thank you.
HALAL GUYS never seems to fail me. Food: I always get the chicken over rice whenever I come to NY. This is a must go to place whenever I visit NY. A MUST! and I also tell anyone who is going there to try it and not once has anyone ever said it was ok or not good. They all loved it.. I was a bit whatever about this place the first time I tried it and didn't know what the rave was about. However, it's when I decided to give it another shot that I was taste blown. The chicken is good. Sometimes a bit dry but 95% of the time it wasn't. The white sauce and hot sauce goes so well with the food. The hot sauce is pretty hot so if you're not that good with spicy foods I would just put in a couple drops of it. As for me, I love spicy food so I put in about 2 little containers of it. Please come to LA. The imposters here are giving you a bad name! haha. Always busy. But the most I've had to wait was about 15 minutes. Customer Service, Atmosphere: The guys that are there are more of a get it and go mind. But hey, it's NY. Everything is so fast paced. It's a cart so the atmosphere is the corner of the street on 53rd and 6th ave. ? Price: Hey for $6.00 a plate. It's very affordable and I don't think I've seen this much food or flavor for $6. Rating: 5 out of 5 stars. The price is great. The food is great. What more can a hungry person ask for?
I'll definitely share next time - portions are huge. Really, really good halal. I had chicken on rice. That white sauce is also no joke.
You eat and you dont feel hungry anymore for 6 dollars and that's it. I cant understand the crazy reviews. There is nothing different from other street carts. And one more thing about the line. If they see the line short, they stop service and wait for it to be longer. So they are always "popular", day and night. Good strategy.
My bf loves Halal Guys so we got chicken over rice to go on the way to a party. It was sooo good after drinking, so a few days later I got it again. After buying it a second time around, it just tasted okay. It's good but not the best. The white sauce definitely makes it better. Add a bit of the hot sauce and you're good to go. The hot sauce can get a little spicy so be careful. For $6 it's worth a try.
Wow, tastes just as good as I remember during those starving student days venturing into Manhattan and sharing these between a few drunk girls at 3am ... but wait I'm sober and it still tastes good?! Love the price, the portion, and consistency. And wow love that they have the sauce on the side now so I can hate myself later on for putting as generous amounts of spicy sauce and that crazy good white sauce on as I want! I'm curious if their other locations are as good as it seems they are branching out quite a bit and are the rumors true that they are coming to Berkeley, CA? Who knows. I definitely recommend the chicken and rice. The half chicken/half lamb was good but the chicken is better and a must try for anyone new to the cart. It's a few blocks up to the park where you can sit and enjoy or if you can't wait then there are plenty of public spots to enjoy with the many others gobbling their's down.
My stay in New York would not be the same with out The Halal Guys! This late night grub food seriously changed everything! I thought we had good late night food here in LA but they changed the game! I was shocked at how good it was when I first tried it! The white sauce was so good and all the flavors really do competent each other! Loved it
Strictly speaking of taste and service The Halal Guys do not provide an experience worth noting any more than any other Halal Meat stand on every other corner of New York City. The lines? well, there are three Halal Guys stands on the corners of a four way intersection all serving the exact same food. One has a 100 foot line, the other a 10 foot line, the last no one in line. People like to stand in line because it makes them feel exclusive. Don't believe me? take a look for yourself on a Friday night.
Not that they need another review... But this is def the best halal. Awesome price for a hefty amount of food and these guys move fast so even if there's a line, the wait is only a few minutes. THE HOT SAUCE MANNNN. IDK what the HELL is in that hot sauce but it packs a serious PUNCH. I remember the first time I had it, I was like "wth am I gonna do with this itty bitty cup of hot sauce?!" One bite and I had nothing else to say about the amount! The white sauce is good for balancing out the heat. Going tonight for dinner...
Do you have 6$ for a round trip to your happy place and back? Perfect This isnt just any street cart people. This is the street cart of all street carts formulated for only one thing, World Peace. For six dollars you get a plate of rice lettuce and 1 or 2 meats of your choosing (lamb and chicken) then you will douse this plate with the white sauce crafted from the gods themselves and maybe if your feeling frisky splash a tid bit of the hot sauce made from the devil himself. Seriously dont mess around the hot sauce is not a joke. Then you will find a nice place to seat and you will go all Meg Ryan in When Harry Met Sally Restaurant scene. (Movie reference CHECK). Then you will eat the whole thing, look down at your plate and weep one single tear. Until the next journey to your happy place.
If you are hungry at any time of the day or night, I would highly recommend the Halal Guys. ?Prepare for a long line if you are going late at night, but it is well worth it. ?I could not find anything that was so cheap in NY that was very tasty. ?Make sure to get the different sauces and put in on top of the food. ?The white sauce it the best, which has a garlic taste to it.
Can't beat this (esp. for $6). Lamb over rice. Do it. But really: generous portions, not too greasy (the right amount), and a bit of lettuce to lighten it all up.
Absolutely had to try this spot when I visited NYC. The Halal Guys definitely live up to all the hype. It is great late night food that just hits the spot. I got the combo plate which has chicken and lamb over rice with lettuce. Also has their special sauce that they include. Love the hot sauce but be careful as the heat will definitely creep up on you. There wasn't a line when I went but it was also freezing cold and recently just rained/snowed the previous day. Be sure to bring cash since that is the only form of payment they accept. For the price you pay you get some amazing food that will fill you up. A must try if you are in the area!
Blessed assurance! Halal Guys is mine! Oh what a foretaste of glory divine! The gospel truth is here. Sometimes there is no line. There's little I can say that hasn't already been said about the guys. They're just great. I could eat it for breakfast, lunch, dinner or dessert. I'm not even kidding. Sometimes, I go a little too heavy on the red sauce. Take it from me, you want no part of that unless you have a quart of milk close at hand. In other words Halal Guys is church. And I am a forever worshipper.
I am a FAN! I stopped by The famous "Halal Guys," and boy do they live up to their reputation. The line is ridiculously long but once you order, the food is in your hands within seconds. The chicken over rice is to die for and there is nothing like that WHITE SAUCE! ?Would I go back? HELL YEA!
Now, if you need to try your first or have your last Halal, this is the place you go. It is just that good. There are some that say the chicken is little too stiff to chew, however, the real chicken does taste that way. Also, because they don't have a "special" marination on it like other Halal stands that it seems like a LEGIT chicken. Me and my friends would joke around saying "these guys have the real chicken, other places are pigeons." On the last note, I've tried so many halal places in NYC and haven't found one as good as here.
good lamb and rice.. but unhealthy.. actually, really unhealthy, but when you're in the mood for huge portions of lamb and rice that will hit the spot and give you the itis an hour later.. this is you're spot!
Always a lone but worth waiting .. Really great spot .. Open late
Hands down the best lamb over rice in New York
I have visited the world renowned Halal Guys on 6th Avenue and 53rd Street on 2 occasions, one for lunch during the day and another after a long night of dancing. ?Im traditionally not a fan of "street meat"...BUT I enjoyed this food IMMENSELY both times! ?The consistency of the customer service and enthusiasm that these guys service patrons with is second to none...AND THEY'RE CLEAN!!! ?Definitely a must visit spot for anyone passing through midtown manhattan! P.S.- Go easy on the red chili sauce...it sneaks up on ya!
My review means nothing. Just look at the other thousands of amazing reviews. If you're in the city just go (at the right time of day!). You won't be disappointed!
cheap. tasty. big serving portion.
Extra point for being super efficient - kept the long line moving along real fast on a Tuesday night. My friends and I were super hungry after the ballet so we came here to try the well known chicken over rice. We all ended up ordering chicken with gyro over rice just so we can try something extra. The one mistake I made was adding the hot sauce before having a taste first. From a girl that generally likes a kick to her food, this was more of a full on roundhouse kick that just lingers. I swear there must be ghost peppers in that sauce. I later added much more of the special white sauce and that definitely helped. For 6 bucks you get so much food - they really pack it in there! This does taste different than other Halal places I've been to, but nothing extraordinary. It is quite heavy, especially if you're heavy handed on the white sauce so it makes a perfect meal to soak up alcohol.
I went here all the time when I went to high school in Manhattan. The lines are kind of long during the day, but the food is still great. The portions are very filling. There used to be a better cart on Madison Avenue, but that one closed so this one is the best in the city in my opinion. Make sure you go to the one called "The Halal Guys" as there are several in the surrounding area.
Off the hook!!! I hate waiting in line but I'll wait in line for there food any day there food is so good.
Food is good, best part is its open real late so you can go out then have some good food. CONS.... really long lines BEWARE there's a lot of business who call themselves THE HALAL GUYS, but they are NOT the real one!
Halal Guys is a must try if you're ever visiting New York. Lucky for us, Halal Guys was conveniently located in front of our hotel at the Hilton Midtown! The mixed plate with Gyro & Shredded Chicken is amazing after a night of drinking. They give huge portions for $6, what a deal! ?It's also probably the cheapest meal you will get while you're in the Big Apple! Make sure to drench your plate with the yummy white mayo sauce BUT also beware when it comes to the red firehouse sauce. That red sauce is so deadly and one drop can make all the difference in the world. I'm warning you now, it's like Siracha times 50!!
Chicken and Rice for only $6!! ?This place is the best place for food after hours (my go-to spot for the drunchies) and for lunch or dinner as well. ?The lines may be long at peack lunch hours, but it is worth it. ?Serving sizes are huge as well! ?It can feed me for 2-3 meals. ?The white sauce is a must and if you like spicy, the sauce here is SUPER spicy! ?The first time I tried it, I used a lot of the hot sauce and that was a mistake (and I like my food extra spicy!). ?They have a few food carts, make sure you go to the Halal Guys instead of other carts that try to copy them.
I loved this food!! Definitely a must-try for street food! If you love spice, ask for the red sauce on the side, trust me, it's hot stuff!!
This place is great. The more white sauce you put on your plate, the better the food gets. Watch out for the hot sauce though. Two drops is all you need
YAY! I'm a fan of their chicken over rice! Thank you Yelp tips! I have learned early on that majority of halal carts have fatty chicken. I hate it. Just not a fan. Here, it's flaky shredded?!? I don't really know how to put it, but it's damn good. No gross fatty chicken gristle here. YAAASSSS! I get to apply my own amount of sauce. Which is always a plus! They have white sauce, hot sauce, and BBQ. When we arrived, the line was 10 people deep, but moved fairly quickly. I will assume that the rice is pre-placed in the plate (as there was a stack of them in the corner), and they just toss in your choice and a few pieces of pita bread when you order. My rice was a bit dry, but nothing more sauce can't cure. The lamb over rice is eh. The chicken is WAY better. Absolutely worth the $6.
MUST MUST MUST...! Go to NY just for this. Street food can never be so good. Cheap, quick and luscious Their gyro over rice is top notch with white sauce. My words are falling short and I have so much to say about the taste.
A mandatory stop whenever I am in the city. I love getting dish after going out. It is open at 2AM (I am not sure when they close) on a cold winter night. It hits the spot every time I get it. You need to ask for the white sauce and might have to wait a bit during rush hour.
Just the best.
6 dollars for such a big and delicious plate of chicken over rice, you couldn't ask for more! Whenever you go there, even if it's late in the night, you always find a long queue there. That already explains everything!
Okay, I've known about this cart for ages... I don't understand the hype of boiled chicken with black pepper over hard yellow rice... Then you have processed "lamb" which is super bland and flavorless. The guys are extremely rude. If you are into flavorless food and are willing to wait on a line of drunks who clearly have no tastebuds ... Then this cart is for you.
I finally had my first Halal Guys experience on my most recent visit to New York. The constant line moves so quickly, and before you know it you're receiving a heaping bowl of chicken and rice and pita bread that's ready for you douse in sauce. I love the white sauce that cuts the heavier taste of the food, but overall it amazes me how good just a simple bowl of chicken and rice can be. On top of that, the pita bread is grilled to the perfect level with a slight toast on the outside and a doughy interior. In terms of price, portion, and flavor, you really can't do any better than Halal Guys!
After my friend told me about this famous stand, I knew we had to try it for lunch. The line was long but it moved fairly quickly. I ordered the chicken and rice. It was huge. It could have easily been 2 or 3 meals. Everyone that has been talking about how great the white sauce is has not been lying. It was soooo good. The value was incredible. Getting fresh, delicious food for 6 dollars is the perfect option for lunch. I can't wait to go again
Got chicken, lamb, and rice for dinner and immediately following the next morning, I had gastroenteritis or commonly known as the stomach flu. I did not eat anything prior nor anything after so this is the only food that could have caused it. I never had such a bad experience with food before...Will not be visiting ever again.
I had heard of the Halal Guys a lot, and I was excited to stop by them on my way home from doing some shopping (on a sunday around noon). There was a line as always, so I waiting for about 10min before getting served. I got the mix chicken and gyro on rice. The service was good. I got my food all packed up in a bag ready to go. The food was alright. It didn't blow my mind, and the amount of "white sauce" (mayo +??) is pretty terrifying. It's also pretty heavy, so I was only able to eat half of my plate before saving the rest for later. I am not sure why everyone is so excited about this particular food cart. Not bad but nothing exceptional.
Being in NYC, I had to try the Halal Guys. ?Lucky for me, there wasn't a long line. ?The portion and the price were good. ?I can attest that the white sauce was great, and that the red sauce was indeed spicy. ?I have a high tolerance for spicy food, so I can tell you that it is SPICY. ? Eat at your own risk.
After having lived in NY for years now, and having eaten at countless other halal carts, I finally decided to try this place on a recent late night. Stood in line for about 30 mins, and finally ordered the chicken over rice. I have to say I was not that impressed. My expectations from this place were that it will be beyond any other street food 'chicken and rice' I had ever eaten - and it just did not hit the mark that high. It was still good eats overall (hence the 4 star) - but definitely not something I plan to get in a line for again for 30 mins. The guys at the counter were also pretty rude and arrogant with people ahead of me who were from a different country and were just tourists visiting NYC.
The best for late night eating. I will only eat at this cart.
So..if you've read my tip, then you understand why I'm giving Halal Guys two stars: Unsanitary. When I placed my order, the man took my cash with the same gloved hand that he began making my food with. I'm pretty sure any health inspector would not be down with that. As dismayed as I felt, I was still willing to give my meal (and my co-diners meal) a chance. What do you REALLY expect from a New York street vendor? The falafel sandwich was disappointing- dry and not fresh. The only reason why Halal Guys gets the second star is because, the meat-over-rice dish was actually very good. In short, if you can look past an unsavory health aberration, and you order a meat dish, then this place might be for you!
love their chicken and rice. For a while I would always stroll back to them and want more. no disappointments. Queue getting longer and longer all the time. Big portion. ask for the sauce remember!
a bit overrated
I cannot begin to explain how amazing the service and food is here!! Visiting from LA and absolutely loved our experience, I would definitely recommend this to anybody visit NYC!!!!
I work across the street from this place and it's hard not to notice the massive line at pretty much all times of the day. ?I usually never eat street vender food for obvious reasons relating to hygiene and quality. ?I've also noticed a few not so clean things relating to food storage in their vans with no ventilation and the general dirtiness of the cart etc... In any event today the smell was just coating the air and it smelt too good, so the hell with my guard and I gave into the temptation as I could just not hold of any longer. ?I also figured if all those people are waiting on long lines then it must be special. ?So, finally I gave in, I had to see what all this fuss was about. ? Bottom Line is that the food tastes good and smells good (in a raunchy ?street vendor late night drunk way). ?It however does not look good, but what can one expect from a street vendor that feeds one person every 30 seconds ? So now I'm ?done eating... 40 mins has past, and I'm still thirsty and this is after two cans of club soda where I normally have one during lunch. ?Not only am I thirsty but i also have the lingering taste in my mouth. ? I now continue to fight the thirst and oily lingering saltiness with about 8 cups of water. ?Two hours passes and I'm still parched and I still have the taste stuck. ?I pull out all stops now, run to Starbucks and get a large size mint green tea to cut through this sh-t. ?Finally a few hours later after a few more cups of water the saltiness and taste began to subside. ? In conclusion... If you want to eat this then yes you will enjoy the first 15 mins but then you will suffer. ?If you think about it.... Anyone can make anything taste good if they put loads of msg, salt, oil and spices. ?If you want to eat the equivalent of a Costco size Doritos that taste like salty oily lamb chicken and rice then this would be your best bet.
What is all the hype about? It's boiled chicken, ground "lamb" over dry rice and brown lettuce. Oh and old pita bread! You're better off paying one more dollar and sitting in an authentic middle eastern restaurant. They're rude too!! After an hour my stomach started churning. And I lasted two months in Asia with no stomach issues!! Bye halal guys!!
amazing
Your basic halal stand, plus lots more toppings! Delicious, cheap, I am a fan.
Decent food, good flavors, prices a little higher than they need to be, but overall a great place.
These guys are definitely original. With a line every minute of any hour, their system is quite simple and efficient. ?You fall in line, which will give you enough time to make up your mind on your order. ?You tell one guy your order, then you pay the other guy. ?And BAM! ...your food is in your hand before you know it! ? If you have more than one order, make sure you have help carrying them upon payment. ?The food will be handed to you (literally) seconds after you pay, or even at the same time! ?On a rush, It can be difficult to pay AND receive four chicken bowls with just two hands. You don't want to be the one slowing down their process or holding up the line. ?Thankfully, I didn't. But the pressure was on! You can't beat inexpensive street food served in large portions in New York. ?Both chicken and rice were plentiful. ?Beware of that hot sauce! Last year we lucked out at night with a short line. This year, the line was ten minutes long in the afternoon. ?Next year....we'll see!
Disclaimer: ?m a Nyer! And I know halal! AVOID THIS AT ALL COST!! I have waited countless hours on this the halal guys food carts after cladding out till 5am! All I have to say is thank god for its competitors! This is probably one do the worse halal place in NYC! Only reason why it's so popular cause it was one of the first ones!.. Honestly there's great halal carts around ?the area where they acutual let cook their meat and flavor it!
Great food
ugh...i've seen someone get inspected, fail, have the food thrown away and then once the inspector was gone take it out the garbage!!!!! nooooo thank you!!!!
The ONLY street meat that is worth the fear of meat sold in the streets. The REAL Halal Guys, not the posers who have monopolized on the proximity of their cart and the GOOD one. Although I miss the days when the confusion allowed me my Combo Platter without waiting on line. I always ask for sauce on the side as their 5 alarm hot sauce, and absolutely the best I ever had white sauce on the side because the are very liberal when they put it on, and I don't want the flavored of my meat being obscured. Also, it weeds out the posers from the real deal. This is the only cart I know of that my family, friends and I are willing to travel to as if it's a restaurant.
Been here so many times that I can probably make an entire album just for halal food. No review necessary, just one of the places you'll need to try before you die.
Yummy
I always get the chicken and lamb combo. You just can't go wrong with it. Ask for extra white sauce. Don't be ashamed, you won't regret it. $6 for your great meal, you can't ask more than that. Last time I had to wait around 40 minutes to get my food in December cold, but it was totally worth it
Why you so good? On a for real note, I took my best friend here a year or so ago when we were trashed. We were disgusting and devoured it on the subway, some guy stared at us in disgust the whole time. Now every time she comes for a visit she demands that we go see the Halal Guys, we try to eat it at my apartment now though.
Wow. If there is the perfect place after a long fun drunken night, this is the place! I always get mixed (chicken & lamb) with a ton of white sauce and a speckle of hot sauce (can't take spicy food that well). Don't be surprised if theres a long line on a weekend night!
This is an absolute must try. ?I have been frequenting these guys for years. ?Whether for lunch or for a late night filler after drinks, they never fail to disappoint and deliver some amazing tastes. ?If you can handle to heat, get the hot sauce right on your platter. ?If your like me, you may want to put it on the side and add at your own pace...that stuff is hot!! ?Cheap & delish eats are always a def favorite.
This place is pretty darn convenient and definitely cheap - both pluses - but it really is just OK, not amazing. ?The mixed chicken and gyro meat are tasty and they give you tons of food, but without sauce it is rather dry. ?Unfortunately, the white sauce everyone raves about tastes like bland ranch. ?The hot sauce is inedible IMO, and smells like they took chili powder and mixed it with water. ? If it's late and you're in the neighborhood, go for it. ?If you're staying at the Hilton like we were, it is certainly preferable to the overpriced junk for sale at Herb ' n Fare. ?But I wouldn't go out of my way to come here.
cheap, delicious, authentic, always ready and easy to get... what more can I say?
Is it just me or was it really awesome and delicious years ago but now it's still good as a late late lateeeee night option but not quite the same? Regardless, white sauce all the wayy! And if you haven't realized from the other posts, this is probably not the place to go if you're counting calories. Just sayin'.
This ALWAYS satisfies me for a meal. Some of my friends think I'm weird for putting barbecue sauce, but I think it adds so much more flavor to it in my opinion. :3 I tried a little bit of their hot sauce, but I'm not a huge fan of it. I like my white and barbecue sauce on my chicken over rice! :)
Very delicious. We passed by around 6, there was a long line. We went again at 11:00pm, there was still a line. Must try.
pretty tasty, quick and easy!
Someone stabbed a man for cutting the line. Enough said.
I had looked at reviews and when I saw they were good, I went to eat here. We were lucky today that the line was short compared to normal days, but we still had to wait 15 minutes. When we got to the front, we asked for 2 chickens over rice. They put the white sauce on without asking. And when my brother asked them, "Do you have wraps?" And then they just started making one and forced us to take it. My brother had also asked, "I don't want falafel." ?They had started making falafel, too. In general, they were very rude. But the food was the only thing that got my reviews up. If you are going to have a restaurant in New York, then speak English properly.
Dont know why everyone loves the place. Went there today after I saw great reviews here. I waited in line for at least 10 minutes. When we got there, I asked if they had wraps. Without saying anything, they started making me one. When I said I didn't want it, they were rude and said- You have to take it. They also gave me white sauce, which ruined it for me. The hot sauce was very spicy and was a nice addition to the dish because it blocked the flavor of the white sauce, which was basically mayonnaise. ?If you are going to have a food cart in New York, at least be able to understand English and treat a customer well.
We came here with my family visiting from out of town. We were following the reviews, I have to say it is good but not phenomenal: meat is dry (maybe they have to prepare it well in advance to keep up with the crowd ), rice is good BUT the key is the homemade mayo sauce they give you, if you don't like mayo don't even try it as it is really the key to the flavor. Don't get us wrong we ate all of it, it was good just not great
the food equivalent of cocaine in a foil tray.....theres a reason theres a line for this place every day..! $6 well spend....be warned....you will want it every day!
Simply Heaven. No Comments on Lamb over Rice, Just Heaven
The size is really great and $6 for mixed chicken and gyro is really a deal. Always the long line but moves pretty fast. Worth a try.
I've been here a handful of times, and each time it was just okay. ?Not sure what the hype is about. ?The chicken is diced and shredded to tic tac size, not exactly juicy or moist. ?The rice is basic yellow rice. ? It's also served with a slice of pita and some lettuce. ?The white sauce is pretty good. ?Each time I've been here, the line is about 50 people and the wait is easily 30 minutes.
Ahhh, the ORIGINAL Halal guys! ?I'm gonna leave this review short and sweet. ?The food, the portions, and the price point is what makes this place so loved by many. ?I personally like a little extra white sauce in mine so I'm glad they have the squirt bottles ?on the back of the truck for people like me to get some extra white sauce on there. ?The red sauce is SUPER SPICY and just a little bit goes a long way. ?For the people that are eating this for the first time, be careful with how much red sauce you put on there! I suggest trying it with just a little to see if you can handle it first!! ?Open late and for me and my friends this is perfect drunk food after a long night of drinking :) Also, eating the other imitation places is simply not even close to having the Original Halal Guys cart, so don't waste your time with the other imitation places.
Tasty at first. Nice orange puffy rice. ? Not sure if the orange color was saffron spice or something else, but the rest of the large portion was just ok.
I am not sure what the hype is here, chicken looks like it's boiled and tastes bland. However, the portion is huge for $6 (to the point where I can't finish it). Lineup is huge as well if you come during the lunch rush. I think there are better food carts in the area.
I don't get what the hype is about. Maybe my amazing experience at The Casbah - Halal Cart the night before put a damper on this one. Waited in line for about 20 mins. The line didn't move for a good 10 mins, as they mass cooked the meats and rice etc. Ordered the chicken and gyro over rice, the drenched it in the infamous white sauce. Everything was bland. especially the chicken and rice. The white sauce was okay, but it had been sitting on the side of the cart at room temperature. I think it should be chilled. I tried the meats and rice without the white sauce and they have no flavor. The bread given with the plate was also kinda too soft bland. I'll be heading to The Casbah - Halal Cart for my cravings.
You guys. ?What am I missing. ?My fianc? and I waited in line for 30 minutes for a bowl of chicken and lamb over rice with white sauce and spicy hot sauce. ?Yes, it's tasty. ?It smells even better than it tastes. ?Is it worth queuing all the way down the block? ?No. ?*ducks* It was so funny, my fianc? clearly didn't want to wait, and I was like "Look at the Yelp reviews! ?WE HAVE TO WAIT FOR HALAL GUYS!" ?So we waited. ?And waited. ?Then we got our food, sat on a ledge, and ate it in silence. ?Then we went on our way. ?It was not spoken of. ?The unspoken subtext from him was, "That wasn't worth waiting for, but I don't want to tell her so she doesn't feel bad." ?The unspoken subtext from me was, "Oh God I hope he doesn't mention how average this is because I'm embarrassed we waited for this." ?Three stars for food, minus a star because go somewhere else instead of spending your entire lunch hour standing outside for a bowl of decent food. Hot sauce is mega mega mega hot though. ?So....that's cool.
Amazing Gyro & Chicken platter
Honestly, their food was good - although it was pretty average for street car food. ?It was better than some, worse than some, but overall, I'd say it's not my favorite Halal food. ?Maybe I'm a little unhappy because I walked so far out of my way to get their food...which ended up being inferior to the two trucks next to my office. ?Or maybe it's just the eventual outcome of their commercialization? ?The line was long when I showed up and you could plainly see they weren't really trying - just simply stuffing food that was sitting there into containers. I'll hit up the trucks near me next time.
Definitely, one of the best cart food places in NYC. The good thing is that they are always there.. the not so good thing (for which I am taking away 1 star) is the recent increase in number of fake carts around. I mean, when you are drunk, you automatically go to the place you've always had Chicken and Rice. Now.. at 4:00 in the morning, you have get into all technical details about which side of the street are they, on which days, arrrgghhh... can you please move away all those fake carts if you are the original halal guys please!!
Solid food at a decent price, which can be tough to find in NYC. Quality-wise, you won't be blown out of the water, but you also won't be sick later over it. My wife got the falafel over rice and liked it. I got the kebab. Hers was a decent portion for the price, whereas mine was a bit skimpy. That being said, I stole some of hers, and called it a day there. We grabbed some off a cart and enjoyed eating it in the park people-watching.
Love Love Love Love it. The reason why this is the best and will continue to be it its because they keep cooking ?all night, therefore is always hot and fresh. Not left stagnant and reheated. I always have the chicken or mix the chicken and lamb. 5 stars to this halal cart
Great food, great price. Practically always open and their hot sauce is LETHAL! Go easy!!!
Had the lamb in rice with white sauce. One serving was enough to serve as a nice afternoon snack for four people. The food is delicious and filling. I've had halal food before but this was not like the other places I had tried. There was a 15 minute wait when I went but I've heard the line only gets longer the later in the night you come. I highly recommend this cart if you get a chance to try it.
The best six dollars you will ever spend. 2 pounds of extraordinary halal. Love this place--an absolute must.
Get the chicken on rice with white sauce, it's delicious. For six bucks, the Halal Guys food stand is pure value. You get a dollop of rice, a mount of salad and tons of delicious chicken spread on top. What more can I say? The halal guys is a must try - I will be coming back!
Can't get enough of them
cant believe ive never wrote a review for the awesome chicken and rice. so simple yet sooo delicious. the white sauce is an absolute must. this is one of those things you craaave. every time im in NY i come here at least twice during my visit. its just perfect. try it and i promise you wont regret it.
Perfect late night deliciousness. ?Dirt cheap and worth a try! Note: too much red sauce will hurttttt!
My friend and I were walking back to the hotel after a lunch at Burger Joint, and he was straight-up jonesing for street meat after we had previously passed by this legendary 53rd and 6th halal cart to said lunch spot. Figuring we wouldn't get the chance again, especially with a line this short, we made a pitstop. Yes, he wanted second lunch. After five minutes in line, I couldn't resist either. I had planned to stumble upon The Halal Guys, somewhat drunkenly as par for the course, later on in the trip. But that smell. It's so intoxicating. It sucks you in. Second lunch was a great choice. The Halal Guys is awesome. No other way to put it. A lot of white sauce. A dash of red sauce (careful, it burns!). Chicken. Gyro. Or Both. Rice, definitely on rice. And definitely some amazingly soft, buttery pita bread. Potatoes. Grab a seat nearby. Dash on a mite more hot sauce. Enjoy. Orangeade to wash it down after. Perfection.
For $6 combo plate, and being open at 4 am on a Monday night alone, these guys deserve a 5 star rating! Everything on the plate is diced up in bits, so it was very digestable, especially if you are drunk! ?The hot sauce is HOT, but good for the cold weather. ?And don't "faget" to put the white cream yogurt sauce all over the plate! ?Best $6 spent in NYC!
We got lucky with no wait on a Monday night. I can definitely see the appeal, well cooked rice, lamb, chicken, with those awesome sauces. Would I wait in line? If I was drunk, yes. Ha!
An NYC institution. I've had cart food from Queens to UK and Morocco and this Halal Guys ranks among the best. This much deliciousness for this price just packed on for your enjoyment? Is this possible? This must be a dream. ? If you aren't eating here late night you're missing out. Tender, delicious, spicy, saucy, goodness.
Out of the many times I've been back to NYC, I have to get chicken and rice at least once each time. Many friends back home also love it, so extras are always brought home even though it's a 4 hour drive home, without traffic. Sometimes up to 5-6 hours with traffic, but after heating them up, they're still very good. Although the chicken and rice is really nothing special, their white sauce is the best, you have to get extra of their white sauce! Go easy on their hot sauce though, because it has quite a good spicy kick in it. They're pretty much open 24/7, but on different corners close by. I stay in the Sheraton on 53rd and 7th, which is only less than a block away. Everyday I stay there, I go out and explore new places, run in different directions to see what it may bring so, I've seen a few Halal Guys' trucks scattered near the area during mornings and middays. So don't only stick to one line especially in the middle of the night when people are slowly coming out of the bars/clubs looking for food. Also they only take CASH.
Hands down, the best gyro that I have ever eaten. Six bucks for a huge round of gyro over rice. No skimping on the gyro meat portion. Dreams do come true at The Halal Guys; no need to beg and plead with the guy making your food for extra white sauce. There are 10 to 15 bottles to the side of the truck, free for you to drown your food to your liking. The line looked dreadfully long, but The Halal Guys killed it in less than fifteen minutes. Also, a couple of my vegetarian friends were apprehensive about asking the guys if they would clean the grill for them, because often times people don't respond nicely to that request. Here, that wasn't a problem. They were as kind as they could be, saying "We love it when our vegetarian friends come to visit; go to the grill and the man will show you how he's cleaned the grill for your falafel." The saddest part of my day in the city was when a homeless guy jacked my leftovers at Grand Central. I hope he enjoyed em as much as I would've.
I happened to be in the area, and thanks to the rainy weather, there was no line. So I decided to try the much hyped Halal Guys one more time. ? The chicken continues to be too minced and dry for my liking, but there were a couple of chunks here and there that were somewhat moist. ?Some extra white sauce helped lend some moisture and flavor to the otherwise bland bits of chicken. ?The white sauce is delicious, and the hot sauce is seriously hot. I grew up on spicy food, and this sauce causes some glistening beads to appear on my brow. ?A little bit goes a long way. The portion is very generous, and the rice, meat, a handful of greens and a few slivers of pita cost a meager $6. A-OK is how I would describe the experience. ?Not sure if I can declare that I am a fan. ?Can I really be a fan of an eatery where the condiments, no matter how awesome, are the saving grace for shortcomings in the actual dish? ?I think not.
There was no line when we went. we had to check to make sure these were The Halal guys and not some fakes. The guys kept telling us to come over and reassuring us they were the real ones. lol... Ordered the combo to go. They packed it full while making coversation. The white sauce taste so good. The meat delicious and the pita chewy. For $6 you cant complain but honestly nothing special from any other halal cart!
I love when the hype surrounding a food is worth it! Finally tried The halal guys and was not disappointed. My friend was visiting new york and this was one of the spots we had to go to before his trip was over. We went at 11:30 on a Monday. There were still 4 carts on the corner and a line a every one of them. But they were quick and gave us plenty of sauce. Lordddd is that red sauce intense! Whew. Ended up mixing a couple drips of red sauce into the white to give the white a lil kick. Got the chicken and gyro. I personally liked the gyro better.
These guys never disappoint. Theres a reason that they have a line out of their door every day. If this is your sort of rodeo than I definitely recommend taking a walk in. What's even better is that they just got a larger location. WIN!
I thought with all the hype, it'd be mediocre....but it was all that was promised. I ordered the mixed, as I am a fan of lamb, and the hubs ordered the chicken. The meat wasn't dry (and you would think it would be, by the way they cook it), the rice was light and fluffy and the salad...well you can't really mess up salad, can you? Now, the thing that pulls everything together is def the sauces! The hot sauce is no joke, and I recommend using sparingly, as you will pay later. The white sauce is light and flavorful, but again, I like tasting the meat so I used minimal amounts. Anyways, I'm a fan. Brought a couple friends from out of town to enjoy and was in and out of line within 15 min max!
It's a must go to place if you are in New York!! I'm from California and I'll never forget my hala experience when I came out there. 6$ for one of the best meals you're about to cheoooow down
The best in New York for cart food. ?Open late and friendly staff! ?it's almost like the unofficial after party of the NyC club scene
Amazingly good, clean, but be prepared for a long line.
So good -- but go light on the hot sauce (and this is coming from a half Mexican, half Pakistani girl!)
This place is convenient and always quick. Unfortunately, for me, the food has always been bland and a little overcooked. I know a lot of people that love this place, though. So maybe I'm just unlucky.
$6 for yummy cheap food. ?I wish they had these in LA. ?I ate this twice in NY. $6 rewards you yummy moist rice, some slices of nan-bread, and slices of chicken or whichever protein you like. ?Serving size is massive. ?1 serving enough for 2-3 people to share The white "ranch sauce" is extra delicious to drown w/ your rice. ?They also have red sauce but it's extremely spicy; I'm talking burn your mouth and you'll feel it the next day. ?You've been warned :P TIPS -They don't have water so bring some or pay the $3 for a drink -Sauce is bomb. ?Get as much as you can
Worth the line, the wait, and the heat. ? Amazing. ? So filling and sooooo delicious. ?4000 reviews don't lie.
Just got back from the States, ate from this place twice. I had to. Shudder to think what the calorie count would be however, this was hands down one of the most memorable meals I had in NYC!!! I especially LOVE that it comes with salad as well!! Then you can put as much sauce as you like and even the pita bread bits are super yummy! A friend ordered 1 to share between us for our last meal in NYC (it was midnight) and waited quite a little while. They ended up giving us an extra to compensate us for waiting and seeing there were 2 of us, which was nice...but there was no way we could finish one each (massive serves!) so we gave one to a homeless guy sleeping near our hotel. I'm sure he enjoyed it as much as anyone would, awesome.
Had to wait for about 47 minutes to get the food. The cue was covering a whole block and still the management was trying to hustle as much as they could. But definitely worth the wait. Chicken and Lamb was well cooked and succulent. The proportion of rice to chicken and lamb was low. A typical biryani has significant quantity of rice as compared to the meat that goes with it. Only try the red hot sauce on the side of your insides are made to stainless steel. It goes down cutting your tongue and throat. Delicious anyway.
One of the reasons why I come here to NYC. The food is good for their category and the guys who serve it are nice and very friendly!
The food was fine, but I had better halal food carts elsewhere. They don't flavor the meats when they're cooking them, so even with the sauce it's kind of bland. I don't think it's worth the wait.
do not go here at 4am drunk and cover the entire dish in the red sauce because you will still eat the entire thing despite becoming alarming sweaty and losing feeling in your face. and then next day you will poop your pants upwards of 5 times. i am deducting a star because of the recovery time involved with eating this glorious rotating meat stick ~~~youve been warned~~~~
love it!!!
Lived up to the hype and more. Still thinking about it. Mouth cascading with water right now. Use the white sauce to dilute and spread the red sauce around. It's highly concentrated and your butt will thank you.
The food is still good but discovered that the lamb is actually a little lamb but a lot more TVP (Textured Vegetable Protein) or wheat gluten flavored as lamb. So just giving you all who have gluten allergies a heads up.
Really good and really cheap. They are open at all hours of the day and night. They have good chicken and good lamb. You can order either as a sandwich or rice platter. You can ask for a Chicken/Lamb combo but I prefer the chicken. Their special white sauce is crack, you can pour as much as your heart desires, but I like to ask for it on the side and add sauce little by little. Good NYC eats.
Definitely followed the famous line and yes, it was good. Was it really oh so much better then a thousand of other halal trucks across the city? I don't know. It's good enough to be back tho.
Great plate of food!
This food cart hit the right spot in many ways. ?The hype is true in my opinion. ?One rice bowl order is enough for two people. ?The server work fast, so don't bother talking as they are hustling and bustling.
Over-hyped! Disappointing. Not tasty. NOT worth the long line. Any and every other street cart has to be equally good, if not better.
Finally got to try the legend that is the Halal Guys truck in New York! Overall, I'm not as impressed as I wanted to be. The line was MASSIVE but that didn't stop us...we knew we really wanted to try it...and we were surprised first by how quickly they were able to serve the hungry line of customers so quickly. We had our food in our hands within 5-7 minutes, so that wasn't anything to complain about at all. There was a slight mishap with my order as well as my friend's order (she wanted a meat option but instead got the vegetarian option) and I definitely had to wait for the servers to sort through some internal confusion regarding my order. Didn't bother me too much, but if you are someone who doesn't like chaotic and frenzied working (especially as it relates to service) this might be a turn-off for you. I ordered the falafel over rice (since I'm vegetarian). I love how they gave the sauces on the side to allow the customer to customize. I pretty much used up all of the white sauce (so tasty) and added a couple of drops of the red sauce. CAUTION: THE RED SAUCE IS EXTREMELY, EXTREMELY SPICY. I HAVE NEVER TASTED ANYTHING AS SPICY AS THIS RED SAUCE. Literally only added a couple of drops to my plate, and still my mouth was on FIRE, my eyes TEARING, and my face SWEATING. And I usually have a pretty good spice tolerance. Overall, cheap...fast...tasty but WAY too spicey. The falafel balls were great, and so were the pieces of pita. AND THAT WHITE SAUCE.
It was good. ?Not 30 minutes in line good, but tasty. ?Best $6 meal one could expect in NYC.
What to get: Chicken or Gyro or Both. Why: It's fast, it's easy and it's convenient. If you're shopping around 5th ave or Times Square, this the perfect place for a quick bite if you're in a hurry. Hint: Don't worry if you see a long line, it moves fast. Bring cash, and be careful of the hot sauce. There are also other "Halal" stands...just make sure it's the right one on 6th ave & W 53rd st.
I generally don't eat halal from food carts and this was my first time trying The Halal Guys. I ordered the chicken platter and immediately noticed the color of the pile of chicken....grey/pinkish? I thought it would be grilled and have that freshly grilled flavor... Nonetheless, everything was seasoned well and it tasted pretty good, but I felt like I swallowed a brick half hour after eating it. I'm don't really have a sensitive stomach either...but either way I will try this again at some point and perhaps get something different.
Also had a terrible falafel. Is this some imposter or was I just unlucky? See pic. The falafel was hard as a rock, and super stale. I just threw them out and ate the rice, which was okay with the white sauce. Will give this place another shot but definitely not ordering that again.
These guys exceed their awesome reputation. I make it my business to grab a plate every time I'm visiting NYC.
Good food, cheap food.
Honestly, I am a fan of Halal food but I think these people (Halal guys) are WAY over done. Their food is just under-seasoned food with a crap ton of white sauce to flavor it. They also just give you a lot of food which I guess is why people like it. If you just go about one more block down you find a WAY better halal cart that will change your opinion about halal guys. It's out in front of the Trader Joes-NYU building. If you're walking from the Halal guys on 14th it is the last Halal cart between the electronics store and the end of trader Joes. It's $5 for a huge amount of seasoned flavored meat with curry-potatoes, nan, lettus, cucumbers, tomatoes, rice and your choice of Chicken, lamb, or both. (Price doesn't change!) PLUS you get a free drink. They also have a variety of sauces other than the white sauce. I love their green-cilantro sauce and hotsauce. Super good! It's owned by two brothers Selem (I think that's how you spell his name) and his brother. Anyway it's open 24/7 too so that's great! It's the kind of food that taste great drunk or not drunk! SO I say forgot halal guys, and go here. Not hating, on them, but it's just WAY overrated for good halal food. IT IS OKAY. 2-3 Stars. Halal guys doesn't taste great sober either.
Absolute must. Price is the best I've ever had for any food in New York, period. Portion is great, and that white sauce is better than anything out there. Spicy sauce has a great kick, and just a little goes a very long way. Went during lunchtime on a workday, and still got my food insanely quickly. Can't go wrong with this choice.
A must when you're in the city! It's cheap, quick, and delicious! I usually get the mixed platter over rice. The lamb and chicken are served over a bed of veggies, rice, and pita bread. The portions are huge, and I definitely have to share with someone. Beware of the hot sauce! My friend warned me the first time but I didn't believe him. Boy was that a mistake. I seriously only put maybe a small squirt into my platter and my mouth was on fire the entire meal. I couldn't even finish half of my platter. Granted, I am not that great at eating spicy food but honestly, their spicy sauce is something else. I suggest putting their spice sauce on the side in a container and then slowly adding it to your plate. That's what I did the next time I got Halal Guys, and my meal was much more enjoyable! They have several locations so don't worry if there is too long a line at one place. Venture to another spot! But their lines move incredibly fast! Great service from these guys! I can't wait for Halal Guys to open in other cities around the US.
Being a foreigner, I was originally very skeptical about eating food from a street stall. However, my best friend introduced me to The Halal Guys, after insisting that it was indeed sanitary. My life has never been the same again. I now frequent this location after a good night out on the town. Honestly, there's no better way to end the night than here with your best friends. P.s, I usually go for the chicken, not the lamb, and put on a lot of white sauce with a touch of red.
Best damn food cart menu of all time. ?When I was in new York i must stopped by halal guys every night. ?We even brought back 8 orders for friends in California. ?Highly recommend!
This is the best $6 you can spend in Manhattan, even if you're sober. ? The rice part is fluffy and soaks up all the meat juice, and the chicken and the gyro are so flavorful. ?I usually do half and half (I don't even usually like chicken thighs or lamb). ?If you're getting it to go, you can get the hot sauce and white sauce on the side). ?Just so you don't feel so guilty, there's some iceberg lettuce on the side. ?The portions are pretty big, so it's more than enough for one person in my opinion. If you go during off times, there's not much of a wait, and they're super efficient.
They live up to their reputation, can't miss out on what defines food cart food in NYC. DO - Come here to experience the wait and the hype followed by immediate gratification when you get your food and sit down on the steps to eat it next to a wave of other hungry folks waiting on the line. DO NOT - Come here expecting fine dining service or a healthy bite -- you're gonna want all the sauce you can get in your food, because its just that good!
if late in the night and everything is close it's ok
It's okay. Their are better food carts around.
Hands down best Halal in NYC. ?Worth the wait--and extra white sauce.
YES, the hype is real. YES, it's that good. YES, it's worth the wait. YES, I'll come back. HINT: Don't trust the other imitators around NY, this is the only legit tasting cart.
Through my experience, some places live up to their hype and some do not. This place my friends, LIVES UP TO THE HYPE. Halal guys takes the cake and every minute you wait on that line is worth it because soon you will be having an orgasm in your mouth as you devour the hot tender chicken and lamb drowned in EXTRA WHITE SAUCE and a dab of that flaming hot red sauce; A DAB is all you need, trust me on this one. I think I'm going to get me some "53rd and 6th" for lunch tomorrow.
In the midst of this week's snowstorm, where every street crossing had 5-inch high sandbars of snow and slush and cars are splashing this nasty wet water all over me, where walking many blocks to get to this famous food cart, treading between the slipper puddles at every street corner, getting my feet wet became unavoidable. I was asking myself whether waiting in line with wet socks, shoes, and ankles was worth it. Half an hour later, back in my hotel room ready to compare their product against the other well-reviewed places I've eat this week, where those other places were fancier and much more expensive, the Halal Guys is a stark contrast and a perfect example of how you don't need to spend much money to enjoy one of the best pleasures in life! Usually when one's expectations are set so high before their first visit to an eatery, the vendor is bound to get some critical remarks.... But not this place; not today. Get the chicken and gyro combo. Hands down the best meal I've had this week. Falafel wasn't great, but I can't ding them because it was wrapped in foil and got soggy by the time I sat down.
After a late night of having some drinks you can always count on these guys for some delicious chicken & rice! Love that white sauce & that hot sauce is no joke lol. This is a must try!
Aside from Grimaldi's...this is a must if you visit New York. I was brought here by a friend that lives in the area to try the staple street food in manhattan. Believe it or not, I could not finish it. Great late night meal after a night of drinking. There was about an hour long line which we waited in, my only gripe. Doesn't beat a California taco though.
Great place to go for awesome chicken and rice. ?Not great place to go if you want a romantic sit-down.
No review needed if you have not been yet, ?gooooooo!!!!! Amazing food lamb is my fav over rice be careful red hot sauce will set you on fire use sparingly plsss
Standing in the long line is part of the experience. Do it if you are a first timer or going with a first timer. Don't go crazy with hot sauce (it is extremely hot) but definitely try the white sauce. Don't get fooled by the impostors. ?They do have multiple locations now. Check them out on Facebook & Twitter for exact locations. I usually get the lamb gyro platter. I am not a fan of the rice so I usually get mine without it. Would advise picking up a second one for later too.
I've had my fair share of chicken and rice cart platters around the city and this one really is the best. Yes, the lines are long and yes you can easily go around the corner to another halal cart but you'll be missing out. They just do it right: the portions, the price, the service -- it's all great. Get EXTRA white sauce and just enjoy the chicken and rice goodness. I've waited and eaten this in the freezing cold and it was worth the wait and my $6. If you want to try great halal food for extremely cheap, don't waste your money on the other billion chicken and rice carts in the city and just try The Halal Guys.
Another place that's been hyped up so much that it ended up being a disappointment. Hell yeah it's good for a late night post-alcohol grub. I would even get this for lunch on a normal workweek (granted they opened up a branch in LA). It was a mind-twister to me seeing the hordes of people lined up 40, 50 even 60 deep. I got the mixed gyro/chicken over rice. All components were hot and fresh. I guess it's all about the white sauce. Without it, HG's food would be dry and bland. Add the red sauce as well. Pour it all over and be friggin' adventurous for gyros sake.
Chicken and rice modestly served in a foil platter for $6. Packed with flavor, served with generous portions of pita and crispy lettuce, and doused in a creamy white sauce. My friend and I shared one, but no red sauce for us because of her bad prior experience with the spiciness. What exactly makes it so delicious though? I still can't pinpoint it, but I do believe the hype now. There are lots of random Halal Guys look-alikes surrounding this area which are also called 'Halal Guys,' so it's a bit confusing at first. Be sure to double check to make sure you're actually at the right cart. Although this place is yummy, I can't imagine eating it at any other time except after 9pm.
Stumbled on this place in NYC and thy are bomb and you can put whatever sauce u want and however much u want. They are so good and straight to the point. Lamb is juicy and the rice is super bomb! This is NYC living eating on the streets! Best street food!
So much food for $6.00. ?The line was 20 people deep at 1pm on a Thursday, but it moved fairly quickly. ? We took our lunch over to the nearby public space and dug in. ?Hubby and I shared the mixed gyro and chicken. ?Make sure you ask for extra white sauce and the hot sauce. ? The hot sauce burns slowly. ? We shared but still couldn't finish our order. ? Bottled water and a canned soda. ?Whole thing came to $8.00. ?Cheap eats.
Pretty solid food, but the food can be bland at times depending on when you go. It's all in the white sauce.
I love these guys. they give you a ridiculous amount of food for only $6. I couldn't even finish it in two meals. be careful with the red sauce - it is HOT. white sauce is great. get the gyro (lamb) meat over chicken.
Super good. Chicken over rice and tons of white sauce. If your in NY you need to come here!
If you want a serving of food that can feed 3 average sized adults, then come to this spot. I really don't think this halal cart food is any better than the myriad of other carts scattered throughout the city. But I do think that they provide the best bang for your buck. Especially when you're drunk as hell on a Friday night.
Six dollars. In NYC. A simple six singles gets you a humongous plate of everything good in the world. srsly. Look at this sexy mess: yelp.com/biz_photos/the-?. This MIXED CHICKEN & GYRO over rice plate was only $6. Heck, any plate is $6. If earlier that evening, you managed to shell out more ones than you had intended, don't fret--$4 will get you a sandwich chock full of gyro, chicken, or falafel. Keep in mind that their tahini tastes like frickin' ranch and is just as addictive. For those of you who thinks ranch goes with everything (chicken nuggets, fries, pizza, chips, eggs, you name it), you'll love this stuff. As for their deadly red sauce...it ain't playin' around. Have some milk on hand, because it will burn. Yes, the offerings here are nowhere close to gourmet. But it's huge, cheap, and filling. Don't tell me that doesn't pique your interest in one way or another.
Cheap and cheerful food at its best. Although the line is usually very long, it won't take you more than maybe 5-10 minutes to get your food. I ordered the chicken and gyro combo, and they were both very tasty. However, some idiot decided to scratch off the warning next to the sauce bottles that said the hot sauce was extremely hot, so I put equal amounts of the hot sauce and white sauce. My mouth was burning so hot that I had to take a break in between my bites to chew on some ice. If you experience the same thing as I did, just put some more of the white sauce to lower the spiciness. Also, hot sauce on the bread is a lost cause. Just toss it, or you'll be on the verge of tears. The lesson learned here is always look at the reviews of a place before you go...
Had this for dinner last night and compared to the Others, This is less greasy, less buttery, and tastes fresher. Maybe because they turn their food from grill to tummy so fast! Be warned I love spice but this place makes a mean mean bully of a hot sauce. Holy jeezus! One time we said "hold the white sauce." Never ever again! Get the white sauce. It cools the tongue and breaks down those hot oils. The owner is a smart business man. He either franchised it or employed all the other males in his family...they have like 6 carts mostly along the 53 street corridor from 6 Ave (every corner) to Broadway. There's a van that drops off fresh meat to help the carts replenish. I mean, think about it ...it would be pretty unsanitary if all that raw lamb and chicken sat in a little cart under the hot grill, while hundreds wait on line daily! My mouth waters when I think of the Halal Guys!
My husband raved about this place non-stop for a while saying that it was the best chicken rice he ever had. ?I think he talked this place up so much that when I finally had it, I thought it was just okay. ?Sure the food is really cheap for NYC. ? It was a short walk from Broadway and when we arrived, the line was super long. ?It was already 10 pm yet business was still really good. ?The line moved pretty fast, taking about less than 10 minutes. ?There weren't any places to sit so we walked for a while to find a public place to stoop and eat our food. ?I'd say this place is worth a try. ?it wasn't the best I've ever had though.
Classic, cheap, delicious.
I have always noticed long lines at The Halal Guys when visiting The Big Apple. ?We arrived late Thursday night and were staying across the street at the Hilton Midtown. With nothing much open at 11PM I jumped in the long line and anxiously awaited. ? Most seemed to be locals in line, a good sign, and nearly all were ordering "Chicken Rice", not "Chicken on Rice" as listed on the side of the cart. ? I had my heart set on a gyro sandwich, but when it was my turn I chickened out and ordered "chicken rice" like everyone else. ?Super delicious!!! ?Amazing!!!! ?The white sauce that is served with it, is to die for! ?And the hot sauce, beware it is crazy hot! ?But the combo of the white sauce + the red sauce was perfection. The Halal Guy are extremely efficient,and the line moves quickly. ?Plenty of places to sit and enjoy this delishisnous. I will now make it one of my staples when in NYC. This is one more thing that makes NYC so great...the Halal Guys!!!
So many reviews, but I feel inclined to add my two cents, as this is one of my favorite meals in NYC. Good flavorful food, big portion, friendly and quick service, great price - what more then can you ask for! I always the lamb and chicken combo, the best of both worlds. ?The rice is actually my favorite part of the dish. ?I have tried other carts, but have not found another comparable one.
Only one short avenue away from the famous first Halal Guys cart, this outpost on 7th avenue barely ever has a line (I guess I'm letting the cat out of the bag...oh well). ?This street meat is AMAZING. ?It's so cheap, a ton of food, and the fastest fast food you can imagine. ?The meat is so flavorful and tasty. ?Oh yeah, the pita is some of the best I've ever had. ?I think I will have to change my walking route home from work because the smell from this cart is too good. ?Chicken, lamb and rice for life.
I love the food here but don't have experience with other halal places to compare it against. Given its popularity, it should be no surprise that you're expected to wait in a long line. I only had to wait for 15 minutes and apparently that's considered "lucky." Also because of the amount of people these guys have to serve, I found that at times they were rude and aggressive about getting the line moving and having people get out of there ASAP. I also asked for a to-go bag 3 times and got ignored but was also yelled at when I tried to grab one myself... So if you only care about the food, then you should not hold back from checking this place out, but it will not be the most positive experience.
Half chicken, half lamb is the way to go! Top it with sauce and enjoy the best of New York street food.
This place isn't remotely close to being even one of the best let alone THE BEST Halal cart in NYC. Over 5000 reviews & they have 4 & a half stars?! You guys must love barely seasoned grey chicken meat & have never had truly amazing halal. If that's the case then some of you might orgasm on yourself when you try some REAL top notch Halal if Halal guys was amazing to you! It's bland chicken with an unappetizingly grey color that desperately needs sauce to even be passable. However, they do give more food than any other cart for the same $6.00 price. But I like quality over quantity. Thumbs down.
The ONLY food on a truck I will ever eat . Lines can get long, but its well worth it! My go to after a tired night after the club lol
Best chicken over rice you can get from a food cart. Line is always long, but goes by surprisingly quick. The white sauce is AMAZING!
"One lamb platter, no lettuce. Extra white sauce." - Words of a perfect meal.
This place has long lines for a reason! The quality and the portion of food you get for the price you pay is definitely a win, especially in this part of town. A group of 5+ more of us would take multiple trips a week venturing out from Brooklyn. For 6 dollars, you get a LARGE, and I mean LARGE portion that will not only fill you up but probably put you to sleep afterwards. Make sure you fill up your entire plate with white sauce - it's like halal liquid gold. ***Beware the hot sauce, that sh*t is spicy! If you are brave enough to try the hot sauce, make sure a toilet is accessible.***
If you want chicken and rice you have to go Halal Guys or risk becoming an old man, filled with regret, waiting to die alone. Also, beware the hot sauce is really hot!
I am not sure which TV show I saw this on, but when the taxi from Newark airport dropped us off at the New York Hilton across the street, I just knew I recognized those yellow shirts from somewhere. My mouth remembered even though my brain did not and I started salivating immediately remembering the show talking about lamb, chicken, salad, sauce and it is some good eatin'! Our flight from Dallas that morning was an early one so I was so hungry, in a new, and yes scary city so that looked like a quick option. The line was 15 deep, so I told Mom to go and check us in and by the time she was tipping the valet in our room for handling the bags, I was walking in with 2 chicken/lamb combos with salad/rice, pita and extra sauce. We unpacked, chowed down and it was the perfect lunch to fuel us to explore this crazy city. The lamb was tender and perfectly seasoned. Creamy and flavorful, fresh and quick. The chicken had a tasty little char on it and the juices got all down around the rice.. mmmMMM, but it was really the pungent white sauce was the thing that brought it all together into a balanced bite. We had a blast and ate at some amazing places during that trip, but my spontaneous run across the street to get some real New York city street food was awesome all the way around, y'all! Go get some! Just look for those crazy yellow shirts.
No introduction is necessary. The lamb over rice is my poison and have never been dissapointed.
Food is out of this world. the sauce they have is amazing. you don't understand how good this food is until you try. at first i was saying : how chicken over rice can be that good ?? until i tried and now i am believer. you must try if you are in NYC.
I could say it's a gift and a curse that my boyfriend lives 4 blocks away from here, but i love the halal guys. they're SO friendly, and will give you anything extra on the side (white sauce!!) if you ask them nicely. We always went to their car on 14th and 2nd and It's great for them that they now have a store to sell all of their halal goodness. We go here once every couple of weeks to treat ourselves and I'm SO glad they now do portion sizes because i could never finish one of those giant platters myself.
Worth to try if you go to NYC! The line was so long, but they served quite fast. The lamb was really good. You can also request for half chicken and half lamb. Be careful with the hot sauce, make sure you have water with you. I saw people running around freaking out to find water.
This place really is what it is cracked up to be! Yes, the lines are extremely long and you will be there for awhile, no matter what time of day. But it's so worth it. The portions are HUGE, so you should probably plan on splitting it. Every bite was amazing, so trust me, I did want to try finishing it. Even the rice was flavorful enough that I wanted to stuff my face with it. That white sauce though...it'll change your life.
Great food at the cart near the Hilton hotel! Do stop by - even if there is a line.
Over-rated to say the least. White sauce is amazing but rice and meat is sub-par. As others have mentioned who wants to eat shredded diced up meat?
Service What surprised me the most was even with the long lines and being outside. This street vendor actually seems surprisingly jolly. They are very animated and even makes jokes as they collect you cash. Food The white sauce is delicious and the gyro is favorite part then the chicken. I definitely recommend getting the combo because you can get chicken and lamb. Value Excellent $6 dollar get you a pretty big plate of food. Thought personally if the line is to long at the original I would go to the neighboring cart which I think is actually owned by the same company.
Pretty damn good, probably would have been better at 3am and me being drunk as he'll. however 6 dollars for a tom of tasty food is a good deal. ?I Have to say that you should beware of e hot sauce, the guy warned me but I guess I didn't take him seriously. It was ridiculous and made my mouth burn for hours ;-(
I have to have this every time I go to NYC. Whether it's the food cart or their new restaurant, you're guaranteed to get something great food. My favorite is the lamb/chicken combo platter with white sauce and hot sauce!
It's the Halal Guys, what else do I need to say?
On my first visit to NYC, I remember the long list of fancy restaurants I wanted to check out. That is until I was introduced to The Halal Guys. I don't know what it is (something in the water like everyone says about food from NY) but it was truly incredible. It became the only meal I wanted everyday I was there. Which saved me a lot of cash in the long run haha. It's super affordable and beyond delicious. Did I mention that white sauce? I have no clue what's in it but its so good. And 5,500+ reviews you know it's gonna be good. But don't take my word for it. Come check it out when you're in The Big Apple.
Where in Manhattan can you get a humongous bowl of delicious Chicken Over Rice for $6, enough to serve two people? The Halal Guys, of course! ?The white and hot sauce make it even more amazing. The long line is worth the wait.
Nothing I can add that people haven't already mentioned. - Line moves fast - Put the mysterious white sauce on your food - 6 dollars for a container of food? Say wha - Sometimes they will sing for you - Food is awesome - Best late night snack
Don't let the price fool you, halalguys is priceless! Watch out for that hot sauce, by far one of the hottest sauce I've eaten. And generally speaking, I eat quite spicy!
I've been going to the infamous cart on the Southwest corner of 53rd and 6th for over 13 years now, even in the snow, ice, and rain. ?Something has happened within the past year that has brought my level of reaching melodious splendor, well, down. ?It could be the recent surge of demand that has brought the place to franchise, forcing more carts to open and more supply to be ready to go. ?With that, the product has honestly diminished; not the taste of the mysterious white sauce or the potency of the tasty hot sauce, but the quality of the meat and how it is cooked/served. ?My past few encounters has included dry chicken with little taste, super oily lamb, and wilted lettuce. ? So with that said, I was in the city with my lady the other week and while walking up 6th ave on the west side of the ave we saw that both the southwest and southeast halal guys stands had packed lines. ?Though it seems as if it could have been too annoying to wait to possibly get the recently poor experience, I saw a few of the "old-timers" at a cart just south of the southwest halal guys stand, with nobody on line (the taller guy and his trusty assistant who've been taking orders from me since 2000). ?Without hesitation we trusted our instincts and took charge. ?I got a combo platter and she got a chicken only. ?The chicken was white meat, juicy and extremely tasty, the lamb was delicious and not too oily, as I always remember. ?The white sauce seemed to have a slightly tangier taste, but still mysteriously delicious, as well as a solid hot sauce like always. As it turns out, this place is a different operation, and they live in the middle of the southwest side of 6th ave between 52nd and 53rd st, where I've always been sketched out about because of the serious imitators that used to have the square plates. ?Well, times have changed. ?I honestly believe, as a vet, that these guys have taken either the recipe or the love of the real-deal to this cart. ?Their bags are different, their shirts says something else (even though they look like the same yellow), and they serve on a similar round plate. ?There have always been warnings out there "Don't trust the guys in the yellow shirts if they don't say The Halal Guys" or if they don't have the "People on line Logo". ?There is something deeper going on here, possibly a halal cart turf war? who knows... All I know is that by giving this review a 1/5 stars, it might just spark the interest of some of you long-timers to go and check out where I believe the original recipe as gone to. ?A plate of deliciousness that seems like that same first bite you've ever had. ?This is your opportunity to chase that dragon!! ?now go out and get'em.
Best place to get food after going to a bar... ?I heard the lines can go around the block so go early or wait forever.
The worst street meat in manhattan, period.
this is one of those things that sounds great before you eat it, tastes great when you are eating it, and then makes you feel disgusting afterwards. ?its especially popular with people who need something to eat after drinking for 6 hours. ?and for that, its great. ?but it also constitutes about 50% of the hangover the next day. ?worth it maybe twice a year... but no more than that. ?oh and go to the ones on 6th ave and 53rd street right by MoMA. ?those two are owned by the same people. ?all the others in the city are imposters.
Hands down, one of the best meals we had in NY. Our group waited in the cold and in the snow for these guys. I personally prefer the gyro sandwich, but the the plates are awesome as well. Dat white sauce doh. I think it's tzatziki. Hot sauce can get pretty hot, so have some white sauce or pita bread ready to calm yourself. Why do you have to be so far?
Best chicken on rice with white sauce for under 7 bucks. I don't know what's in that sauce...but wow is it good...and there hot sauce is extra spicy. The only bad thing about this place is there is no seating near by. There portions are huge as well.
The white sauce is good and you get a pie pan's worth of food for $7. Maybe it was an off day for them but it was just ok tasting. I gave most of my food to the pigeons who had a field day with it.
The long line is truly worth it. My office is across the street and I cannot get enough of this place.
The Halal Guys can be considered part of the NY experience. Long lines at almost all times of the day - but they move through it rather quickly. As someone passing by observed, they're definitely raking it in. The hot sauce is pretty hot, so take it easy on that. The white sauce is pretty good though, so make sure you try some. Chicken was dry and the rice was acceptable. White sauce helps fluff it up but nothing to write home about. Would I go there again? Probably not. For the price ($6), there are definitely better offerings throughout the city. Can't justify paying for some dry slightly stringy chicken and rice - the pita is a solid touch though.
I love The Halal Guys! LOL Frequently come here after a night out partying at a club or concert. Even at 3:30a.m.. there's a line at least 10-15 long! These guys have a cult following! Although I haven't had halal food there in awhile.. I think the last time, was after a Krewella concert on Halloween last year.. :-( Soon..very soon.. :-D
I am a fan. They give you lots of food and it's quite a good deal. The only issue I've had is the long line. Try to go during off peak hours (late afternoons, weekdays).
Don't let the long line deter you: ?It goes quickly, it's GREAT food, and it's only $6!!! The combo is tasty, and go ahead and put a lots of white sauce on it.
love this place! always crave it and definitely have to stop by whenever im in town. I love the lamb and rice...lots of white sauce and little red! =)
Halal guys are seriously amazing. For $8 i got a lamb/chicken combo over rice with extra white sauce and two water bottles! It's a huge plate that you can share or save for 2-3 meals depending on how much you eat. Ask for the extra white sauce on the side cause then they give you a huge container of it! (you'll thank me later). you get pita with it along with a salad. and definitely say yes when they ask you if you want onions! it makes everything mesh together so well. i opted out for the hot sauce cause i heard of how spicy it was (and i'm not a huge fan of spicy). when i went there around lunch time there was already a long line but the line does move quickly! i'm craving it right now as i speak and i wish i was back in NYC to get some!
We stopped at their cart on seventh Avenue and 53rd. There was hardly any line. We got the chicken and rice. One serving was enough for both of us. The chicken was a little too finely diced for my taste. Everything including the rice had a good flavor. The white sauce tasted basically like mayo with a couple of extra spices. I did like the hot sauce though. Pitas were fresh. It was pretty good for street food. I wouldn't stand in line for an hour like some people have mentioned they do.
I. Love. The. Halal. Guys. Seriously. ?This place is magical. ?$6 for a HUGE plate of delicious food in NYC? SHUT THE FRONT DOOR! If you haven't hit this place up yet, go now. ?Shut off your computer and take the train to 53rd and 6th. ?You can thank me after your glorious food coma. Everything about this place is so right. ?The chicken melts in mouth, and the rice is perfectly cooked. ?Get copious amounts of yogurt sauce and slather it all over your meat! ?Ha, sounds dirty but seriously. ?They just should call it "crack sauce" because it's just that addicting. ? Oh, and if you're a fan of spicy food, the red sauce here is RIDONKULOUS. I mean, they're not messin' around. ?We're talkin' serious heat here. ?I pride myself on eating mad spicy so I didn't think much of it when I asked for a HUGE amount. ?Yeah, bad call on my part. ?Now I know to just ask for extra red sauce on the side! ? The platter also comes with pita bread and salad. ?Aw man, now I'm craving it hardcore. ?Sigh. ?Let me leave you with this though. ?I would seriously DRIVE 4 hours to NYC just to eat here. ?That's how freakin' additive this place is. ? Please go now so I can live vicariously through your taste buds.
This need not a review... If you need a review you obviously have not had fun in New York yet. Chicken and Rice. BOMB! Freaking delicious. Throw that white sauce on it and put some hot sauce on it. Cry and laugh at how delicious and spicy it is. And then KTFO. Wake up and take the fattest, but rewarding shit ever. the Great, GumZ
As the Dallas Cowboy cheerleaders say: "Often imitated, never equaled" There is no place like 53rd & 6th. If there is one stop you ABSOLUTELY have to make, it HAS to be this place. Yes, there is a looooong line Yes, you will be standing in the heat, rain, cold, whatever crazy temperature it is Yes, you will pay for parking if you decide to drive here Yes, you should bring friends to keep you entertained Yes, bring cash monays Yes, you should buy 3 or 4 or 5 to take home when you leave this state... or be a REALLY good friend & bring your friends a plate...because it is THAT good. (Get extra bags so you don't smell up the whole plane) Huge portions- you'll only finish half. Quality is always stellar. 1/2 lamb & 1/2 chicken is what I usually get... or all lamb since I don't get to eat it often. Get extra white sauce & just one pack of red (it's HOTTTTT HOTTT HOTTTTT).
I went to NY with friends. We heard so much about this cart food so decided to give it a try. Super long line but it is worth the wait. It is excellent and so delicious. They give so much food for only $6. So much food that can feed 2 people. My husband and I buy one and share. The white sauce is amazing over the food. The hot sauce-- *warning*-- it is super hot so you might want to go drop by drop. We bought 3 extra boxes to take back to Atlanta! They already pack it securely so there is no issue with spilling or anything. You can take food on the plane. Definitely will be back next time we are in NY.
Oh my! Wish that's all I could say but there seems to be a limit to this post... Hands down, so worth staying in line for. Food is abs. DELICIOUS and cheap!! I drive all the way from jersey just for their food..
Absolutely worth the time you spend here waiting. From one block away it seemed like a mile of line, but fortunately those guys know what they do. So fast, and in 10 minutes I was at the point where I had to pay for my order. Food is really delicious (mixing with white sauce) and only $6. I couldn't eat it all, so I left some for the morning :) If you are in midtown and hungry, do yourself a favor, just walk some extra blocks and try them out. I would only recommend it for lunch and later meals, since the food is really "heavy" and I will really feel sorry if you do get it earlier
The food was not as good as I expected. I got the falafel, but it was kind of dry. The bread was really good! The price was good though. $6 for rice, lettuce, bread, and falafel!
As good as everyone says it is and then some (I hold this cart responsible for 5 lbs. of unwanted weight). ?I refuse to eat halal from any other place. ?I always get the mix (lamb and chicken) over rice and pour extra white sauce on it and one container of the hot sauce (a little bit goes a really long way). It's only 6 bucks for a ton of deliciousness in your belly.
ITS HALAL! If you are visiting NYC - this cart should be in the Bucket List for sure!! it is been around for over a decade and its popularity precedes it. Most fellow NYers go here for lunch. Very popular for post clubbing food. Although lines are always a full blocks length, it moves pretty fast! i can assure you it is worth it! :)
I frequent this cart with my friends right after class. Good food, at a very good price! The red sauce is EXTREMELY hot, but it when mixed with the white sauce, it's like a perfect harmony.
This is the one and I mean ONE place in the city I'd give zero stars to if I could. I'd normally try to find anything good to give credit to. A roach crawled onto my arm at applebees once and I'd still give that one star. Halal guys was one of the first street meat gyros i've ever had so I didn't have much to compare it to, but I liked it. The line was super long but it moved quickly. The servers are so obnoxious which was always something I hated about this place. I get they probably deal with a lot of nonsense from kids late night but still it's a business of serving customers. But overlooked that because it was $6 and tasted good and big portions. One day the server robbed me. I ordered two platters and gave him $20 he gave me $8 change. Then they made and gave me my order and asked to be paid. I told ?them I already paid them and showed them the $8 change that was still in my hand (why else would I have $8 in my hand). They held on to their claim that I didn't pay and never gave me my gyros. It was a blessing in disguise. Obviously I never went back there and it led me to some of the best gyros around the city that I would not have had the inclination to try otherwise. Hamza and Medina in queens is absolutely the best gyro in the city and never would have had it if it was not for this experience. I went back to halal guys on day years later after letting go of my grudge because I was around the area and wow I cannot believe I used to like it. It is virtually flavorless on its own. There is a line between tasting stale and tasting bad and this gyro walks right on that line. Even the white sauce is pretty bland and stale tasting. The hot sauce is the only thing to cut through the blandness but it is so hot you pour enough of it and you are defeating the purpose. Do yourselves a favor and try other places around the city, especially two that were up for vendys (Sammy's and Hamza and Medina). Even if you didnt have a bad experience like mine, the flavors of these other places will make you forget about this place.
For the cheap price this food actually tastes very good. The lamb is superb, the guys are very friendly. Definitely worth the long lines!!!!
Their lamb is quite tasty and they give A LOT. I don't like their chicken much, but you can't beat the price.
The food was incredible! After eating here the first night when we were in NY we loved it so much we went back before we left. Everything we tried was wonderful! Can't wait to visit NY again so I can come back here!
It's been almost three years now since I've had that mouthwatering bowl... I still think about it here and there
Cheap. Delicious. Did I mention cheap? You can feed yourself two meals (portions are HUGE) for about $7 - I haven't seen those kinds of prices since I left North Carolina. The first time I came here I ordered the pita thinking I was going to be more carb conscious - wrong. GET THE ORANGE RICE. Just do it, and thank me later. And the white sauce is as good as they say. Tip: don't sit on the stairs to the CNN building or a very weary security guard will run you off. And get it to go so that you can pack up those leftovers and cart them off with no fuss.
This cart makes my heart sing happy songs (and my tummy)! DELICIOUS, fresh, warm and heavenly!
This food cart is always one of the highlights for me after a night in the city. The chicken with rice, salad and pita always hits the spot. The white sauce is addicitive, and I even dare to have some hot sauce on top. Beware, it is beyond spicy, but still excellent. You aren't going to find a better deal at 2am in NYC than Halal Guys.
Give you tons of food and it's amazing food, especially for the price. When I'm back in NY i'll be going there again.
I'm going to jump on the underdog side of the debate and say this isn't my favorite Halal Guys location. The guys kept the long line moving at this uber popular location. ?But when it came to my falafel sandwich, I wasn't as impressed. The falafel tasted dry and stale. ?It was drenched in white sauce (apparently it's possible to have too much of a good thing). ?There was a messy take-apart procedure to add the red sauce myself. ?And there were stray pieces of random meat that ended up in the sandwich. ?I know the grill is shared, but the 'bonus' mystery meat was not appreciated. ? I think the carnivore platters are the way to go at this location. ? As for me, I'll be sticking with my brick & mortar location on 14th street. ?Luckily I'm living in a city where I can debate the merits of various Halal Guys locations. ?(Keeping my fingers crossed that I'll be seeing those red & yellow uniforms dishing out cheap eats in my other favorite cities in the future!)
Six dollars got me two delicious and satisfying meals from The Halal Guys. I would eat anything they served me at the stand, so it was hard to decide what to get, but at the last second, I decided on chicken over rice. And that white sauce, yeah, that's as good as everyone says it is. I'm a big fan. If you're a fan of spicy things, then maybe use a bit of the red sauce, which tastes harissa-like to me, but beware, that stuff is spicy spicy spicy. The chicken is perfectly tender and roasted, the rice (albeit orange) is mild and flavorful, and there was even some lettuce and pita in the bowl too. For something this good in this part of town, you really can't beat the price. I'll be back.
Hands down, the best chicken and rice dish you can get at a street corner. ?Any time of day, or night, there is a line. ?I came here at 4am, line, again at 10 am, line, and 5 pm, line. ?It's that good. ?I always take the lamb and chicken combo on rice, and I'm never disappointed. ?One tip, always get an extra sauce (white sauce). ?I think it's some kind of yogurt based sauce. ?The two they give with every order is enough. ?But if you want to live, you need the extra one and pig out.
First of all, I grew up eating gyros all the time and I'm happy I got to have a taste of this successful vendor. My cousin recommended me to them one night and surprisingly I didn't even wait at the line too long either. But wow! There are like four carts with really long lines! Anyway it's a super cheap treat!!! I enjoyed the chicken gyro with rice and had some if my brothers lamb. It was good but not great enough for my expectations. I had tons of white sauce which is totally essential and a bit of the hot sauce which should have a bit if a warning since it was a bit too much. All in all it's an inexpensive meal.
Lived up to the hype, red sauce is spicy spicy. Love it, the line goes fast, the lamb is the best. Cheap delicious. It's only 6 bucks.
I don't know... I feel like i must be the only person in the world who is just mehhh about the food. It was flavorful, but SO greasy! I mean the kind of greasy that makes you ill if you eat too much. It could have been because I got the gyro, maybe the chicken is less greasy but it was too heavy. The white sauce was awesome though, could have just happily ate a bunch of pita with the sauce. I'll probably give it another try and order the chicken, but I feel almost like an odd ball for not falling in love right off the bat...
This just might be one of the best meals I've ever had for 6 bucks. ?I ordered the mixed platter of chicken and lamb over rice without the lettuce. ?Extra white sauce which is delicious as most have mentioned in the other reviews. ?I was only in town for 2 days and I made the walk to this location twice. ? It's that good! ? They are fast as far as service. ?The food is just divine. ?The red sauce they give on the side is pretty hot and tastes great in small amounts. The dish it self tasted amazing. ?The chicken is shredded and mixes really well with the lamb meat crushed up like ground beef. ?Mix that in with the white sauce and rice , is just amazing! ? Will come back every time I'm in NYC.
I can see why everybody prefers The Halal Guys! It's awesome, and affordable. The line is not too long. The food is just wonderful! I really love there spicy sauce. This place is great. I strongly recommend you try if you are thinking about it.
Halal Guys gives you a lot of food!!! ?There seem to be a lot of trucks sprinkled around Manhattan that look like the Halal Guys carts, but they don't have the lines. ?I figured a cart with a long line at 11pm on a Monday has to be good. ?Plus, we found that the line moved really fast. ?Also once you place your order and pay another guy was standing behind him with your food ready for you. ?So their system is definitely efficient. My husband and I shared a chicken and gyro rice plate. ?They also give you a couple of slices of pita. ?The one plate was $6 and it fed the both us until we were stuffed. ?I can see why the cart stays open until 4pm. ?This is comforting food if you've been out and about all night, or if you get off work late. ?After all, this is the city that never sleeps, right? Flavor is okay. ?The meat is a little dry. ?I think portion size and late night availability is the biggest attraction.
One of the best values in NYC. $6 gets you a ton of food, we got the combo chicken and beef, it was piled high along with rice and salad. The garlic sauce that comes with the food is really tasty, and mixing it up in to the dish gives everything a garlicky taste that still manages to not leave you smelling like garlic. Get the hot sauce, but beware, it is HOT! Worth the wait at any hour!
As it accompanies all places that are super hyped, I was bracing myself for some disappointment. It was a little cart at the corner of an intersection, and the line was short: only about half a block long. My friend got me a classic chicken and rice bowl, which was basically.. a bowl with chicken and rice. Nothing more nothing less, exactly what the name implies. After I got my bowl, I was instructed to a section devoted to the sauces. There was a thick white sauce, and a lighter red sauce. Do not be fooled by this "lighter" red sauce. It is one of the spiciest sauces I've ever put on anything ever. I think the white sauce is where the money's at for this place. It is a mayonnaise-based sauce that is simply delicious with the food in your bowl. Most people drench their bowl in this sauce, and I followed suit. I have to admit, the seemingly mediocre bowl of chicken and rice suddenly tasted unique and delicious. However, I think the bottom line is that this place depends 100% on their white sauce, while their rice and chicken is nothing special. Still not a bad deal for like 6 bucks, and they give you a lot! Overall, these places never live up to their hype, but I think Halal Guys comes pretty close. It is a place you definitely want to check out if you're in the area. David's Value Per Price (VPP): 8/10
I don't get the hype. Maybe I didn't use enough of that white sauce but this place is just 'good', not anything superior to other middle eastern places selling the same dishes. The line does move pretty quickly because of their efficiently, so that's a plus. Price is also decent for the amount of food you're getting. I'd come back but it really is pretty average tasting.
Writing this review so people don't make fools of themselves. The chicken has no flavoring and that's why people are dumping mysterious white sauce all over it. Also what is this "mysterious" nonsense? It's a yogurt sauce DUH. Okay now that that's out of the way..interesting to see halal food with Spanish rice? How is halal- Pakistani food have Spanish rice? Lol you must get real rice before I can consider this an actual south Asian meal. Lamb is just as tasteless. This place has blown up so in order to attract the palettes of people ahem who eat plainer food IE food without spice or flavor. Now this is what it comes down to..its a decent amount of food for $6, that is if you like your chicken or lamb minced into u recognizable crumbs and drowned in white sauce and then the $6 is acceptable. Now if u want to wait anymore than 5 mins for this "food" then you are insane. Now figure yourself waiting for more than 30 mins, you will be disappointed in the food as well as on yourself for being sucked into the HYPE. that is all.
Hit this cart with every trip to the city. ?New this time - you have control over the white & red sauces, now around the side of the cart... perfect flavors & fills you up. Always get the combo. Sadly, nothing back in California where I live like these guys. ?Thumbs up.
Omg i have to say their chicken over rice with white sauce is the best. I am addicted to it, and it's cheap :-p ... Whenever I have chance to go to NYC, I'll stop by and eat :)) lol
It is well known that when we as a country go to war, the service people that come back will crave the food that they had while in that country and that country's cuisine winds up introducing itself the the American masses. The war in Afghanistan introduced NYC to Middle Eastern food carts selling their "street meat"; plates of spiced chicken (boiled) or lamb (gyro) or both served with rice, lettuce, tomato, flat bread, and a mysteriously addictive white sauce (almost like tsatsiki) and a red hot sauce (liquid fire). You'll find these food carts on almost every NYC street corner but the most popular one is The Halal Guys located on 6th Ave and W 53rd St on both East and West corners although the West corner has a longer line. I've watched on one occasion as a white van would pull up to a couple of food carts up the block a bit drop off steaming stainless steel trays filled with boiled, spiced chicken, which would be then chopped up by hand noisily ?with metal spatulas on the hot flat top. The pungent scent of oregano and cumin wafting about with the steam swirling about them. When the meats were finely chopped enough, they would be scooped up and put back into the metal trays to be rolled over to the awaiting corner cart bedecked with yellow umbrellas, blinking lights, and signs. There is almost ALWAYS a long line of hungry people waiting patiently to shell out $6 for a take-out plate that is tucked into a yellow bag for them to bring back to the office for lunch or to eat sloppily anywhere they can find to sit nearby late night. I say sloppily as the majority of the people that are ravenously consuming this street food are the inebriated young club and party goers that need that meaty, carb laden, spicy fix before they stumble home to bed and sleep, praying they don't get that hangover. Their partially empty or fully emptied and carelessly tossed takeout littering the west side streets and corners of 53rd. I have tried this sober and it's good and filling but have made replicated this dish at home so I don't have to wait so long on a queue that can go down and around a block.
Their chicken over rice was so good. They even give pieces of bread on it, something you may not get at an ordinary Halal stand. The bread pieces were amazing!
I walk by their various carts all the time. I've ordered a few times because, let's face it, it's smells fn amazing. I'm no halal foodie but I really think this food survives on the back of the white sauce. It's basically ranch dressing and without it, these plates fall flat. 5 stars for the white sauce, 3 for the actual food.
One of my favorite foods I've tried thus far vacationing in New York. I went on a cold rainy night and escaped the line. I would love to eat here one final time before I fly back to California! Dat white sauce doe.
I have no #$%#$% clue why people venture out in the freezing cold, balls-sweating humidity, mud-butt haziness, flu-epidemic season to see this place. I went to Baruch adn this place JUST OPENED back in the day. The MSA (Muslim Student Association) and I were their biggest customers before the long lines and such. They had basmati rice with actual spices and the chicken was amazing. But then they became assembly lined and everything went down hill. Absolutely disgusting and I despise cart food to begin with, I went there for nostalgic purposes on Dec 26 with friends of mine who never had it. The gyro lamb sandwich I had, tasted extremely plain even with extra sauces. People need to experience real 'halal' food. Head down to Yemen Cafe and have yourself a feast.
Dont think its worth the wait. It tastes better than the standard street meet cart but you can get the same thing at any restaurant in Curry Hill no wait and seating! Lot of tourists come here because they think this is the place to go.
Hype is real. Food here is amazing. The wait is alright but totally worth it. Best halal food i had. The flavors are amazing. Other halal street vendors can't compare to these guys. And take caution, as the hot sauce is extremely hot. I had to get a lot of white sauce to satisfy the fierce hot sauce. The price and portions are amazing.
Had the Mixed combo(chicken&lamb) with sauce on the side,The white is very good,the red is very hot, Could not stop eating. There are 3 carts there now,but i sugguest the one on 53 & 6th ,by the hilton sign. The lines are long for a reason.Great food $6.00..
Finally, I tried The Halal Guys. It was very very good. I got the mix over rice and both the chicken and the gyro was good, but I liked the chicken more. The white sauce was awesome and the Egyptian guy who took care of our order was very welcoming and friendly. also, the pita bread was very yummy. The prices are very good $20 for 3 people with drinks! I will go back again in my next trip to NYC.
I pickup the mix platter everytime, lamb and chicken, white sauce with a small side of red (very hot). excellent halal kart food.
Amazing street food. I got the chicken and lamb combo with rice and it was cheap, filling, and delicious. Highly recommend to anyone visiting NYC.
My absolute fav place in nyc! The chicken rice is to die for. One just needs to go easy on the hot sauce.. You got to create the perfect harmony for your palate with the yogurt and the hot sauces. Its cheap and totally worth the wait! Can you please open in Dallas?
Praise these guys for putting out amazing food at a cheap price. Was in NYC on a recent trip and made it my mission to stop by this place. there are many other carts serving the same style food, but these guys got the line flowing down the block and that is always a good sign. Don't be alarmed it moves fast. I got the Mixed plate comes with chicken and gyro meat over reddish rice with lettuce pita bread, white and red sauce for 6 bucks. be careful about the red sauce, i eat lots of spicy food and that sauce made me choke up a few times. the white sauce is bomb diggity though. the portion is awesome definitely enough to share, but i don't share food well. grab a spot on some stairs and go to chomp city people will look and stare at your primitive eating behavior but who cares when you have a plate of Halal Guys in front of you.
It's all about the WHITE SAUCE!!!!!! yumm....the only downside is my stomach can't always handle it.
I've been going here for years. ?I remember when it was only $5 and the platter included a decent looking salad & the chicken wasn't just a shredded mess. ?So although I would eat here again, I would never eat here 'sober' or if the choice was mine to make. ?There are so many better "street meat" carts out there.
5stars for $6 well spent on a late Saturday night ! Everything is just perfect , the fact there's a line also adds to the experience and contributes to building an appetite for the feast about to be placed in your palms ! Totally dig !
3.8/5 great price. its only $6 water:$2 I ate thenmixed chicken& gyro it was good. but do not expect really high quality food.
Amazing. A "must" when in NYC.
Went here with my boyfriend who swears by this place. I, on the other hand, didn't really find it all that amazing. Sure the chicken and rice seemed a bit more flavorful and well-cooked than other food carts I've been to, but with all the hype surrounding this food cart, my expectations were much much higher. I'd recommend people still give this cart a try since it is a tourist/foodie attraction now and for $6, you can't really regret the experience. I just think the food doesn't quite live up to the level of hype. If you do visit this food cart for the first time in your life, just bear in mind that this is still food cart food. It won't be as fresh or well-prepared as something you'd find in a nice restaurant. No snobbery intended. Just a fact of the matter. No matter how much hype, it's still street food. Food: 2/5 -- ok; not great but not bad either Service: 3/5 -- efficient and organized; it's a food-cart... not much else to say Atmosphere: 2/5 -- a bit cleaner and larger than other food carts but still just your average food cart kind of environment Overall: 2/5 -- decent
I can't even go here anymore because the lines are too damn long. ?Even their second cart across the street has a line now. ? The best part about Halal Guys is the fact you know the meat is constantly getting cooked fresh and not sitting around like other carts. ?That said, let's not get cray because it's still street meat and not a hipster food truck with organic, free range, virgin, blah, blah, blah. ... They have been around forever and I actually think it got better. They are too scared to fuck it up now that they are famous and making crazy $. White sauce is second reason they kill it though. THAT, is crack. ? So, is it the best of its kind? Eh, I actually think I've had better in Astoria. ?And, if you from queens you know what I'm talking about. But, I ain't telling cuz the last thing I need is for tourists and foodies to fuck up my access AGAIN to great white sauce over lamb and rice...
You can find tons of halal carts everywhere in NYC, but honestly, Halal Guys really do make some good Middle Eastern food. Their cart compared to the other carts are just worlds apart. No wonder the competition is so fierce. They won me over the very first time. Best halal ever! Everything is seasoned well and it's not salty. The white sauce and hot sauce complement the food very well. I got the gyro over rice (lamb). Pita bread and lettuce is also included with it. They also give you TONS for just six bucks. You won't walk away with a giant hole burned in your wallet either. And unless you're starving, you'll have enough leftover for later. Really glad that they have more than one cart location. Beware of the fake carts though. And it's awesome that they are open late into the night!
I must say the halal guys were super friendly and were very easy going. I chose the chicken/gyros sandwich ($4) with white and hot sauce The gyros was a bit bland but the chicken was okay. The Arabic flat bread was delicious though but all in all it was just okay. I expected more.
Inspired by the NYTimes piece describing the impending massive expansion pan by these guys, who have join forces with the people behind Five Guys rapid ascension from the DC suburbs, I decided it was time to weight in on this much hyped halal cart. ?I definitely think it is just a tad overrated, and probably not even in the top ten of such carts I have sampled. ?That being said the lamb is quite tasty, and both the generously applied white sauce and pita above average, and the price is always nice. ?I found the chicken actually a bit nasty however, and no matter what I have ordered I have always received a rapid and harsh one-two punch to the stomach soon afterwards and wound up regretting the meal for the greater remaining part of the day, a common occurrence where street-meat is concerned.
What can I say...I stayed two nights in NYC and both nights I ate here late night...it's THAT good. Staying at the Omni was so convenient because we picked up Halal Guys and walked a few minutes back to our hotel to feast on the deliciousness. I don't know what it is - the meat, the sauce, the rice, my late night munchies hunger, or a combination of everything that makes this the best meal of the day after a full day of walking around NYC and a night of drinking. The white sauce is delicious when mixed up with everything and make sure you get some of that red "crack" sauce that's so spicy that only a few drops will be enough. Mix it all up and enjoy! For $6, this meal is a steal! It's definitely a must on your places to visit in NYC. Even my dad loved it! Bon appetit ya'll!
Don't live in NYC, but when I come into town....I always stop here. Not a fan of the sauce, but the rice, chicken and gyros are the best. There is a reason there is such a line!
Long line, but great food for a cheap price!
Let me start off by saying I'm not usually a big fan of rice or chicken and when my brother took us to this cart I was very doubtful I would enjoy it. However, I was very pleasantly surprised! My brother ordered the combo for us to share with white sauce, and it was super yummy! Definitely a must try if you're in NYC! Word of advice though, not all of the Halal Guys carts are owned by the same people so there are different cooking styles and different ingredients depending on the cart. So just make sure you're headed to one with good reviews!
A little heavy but well worth it yum yum yum
I used to enjoy this kind of stuff when I was younger and way more broke. The more you learn about the importance of proper meat storage and refrigeration practices, and the more you experience getting sick from food a few times, you really learn to appreciate real quality food. This isn't quality food. Maybe it tastes good to an extent but for $6, you have to remember what you're getting. I can't imagine the quality of meat being used here being ?decent and food stands don't have to answer to the same rigorous guidelines as restaurants. Where is their meat stored? I've seen vans pull up dropping off big bags of meat and that's not a pleasant sight to see. ?All I know for sure is I've never felt good after eating one of these things, even half a portion which it really should be. I'm convinced eating these platters take years off your life. I know that it's a big tourist spot with a lot of hype, but I don't recommend it. You know what, just do yourself a favor and dont buy food on the street in general. Your body and mind will thank you for it.
Best Halal stand in the city. Hands down. Interested in seeing the storefront... Hope it has more offerings like Chandni Halal.
Wow! I had a halal guys combo for lunch. The wait was long but it was so worth it! The lines are long for a reason. Best halal food I've had so far! Cheap and sweet, food cart food at its best!
Very prompt and timely service, amazing food, and SO affordable. I ordered chicken over rice for 6 bucks and was served within 2 minutes. The chicken was delicious and perfectly cooked, the rice was zesty and went very well with the chicken. It was also served with a few slices of naan and some lettuce. I would highly recommend that you use the white sauce that they give you.. It's AMAZING and makes the food taste even better. The serving size is pretty big.. So you can definitely share with someone and you both will be satisfied 100%. The guys at the cart are friendly and funny and generally very pleasant people. 6 dollars for a dinner that I was too full to even finish! Also not unhealthy food at all. You should definitely check it out.
So good. Just so good. Wish Philly's best halal food trucks would be more generous with their white sauce. If so, they would be on par with these guys.
$6 for a metric ton of rice, meat, sauce, and veg. all about it. it's delicious. is it gourmet? hell no. will i continue to eat an unhealthy amount of this stuff. yeah.
If you want clean, organic, high-quality, nicely presented food, then this place isn't for you. But this place is every bit as good as the long line indicates. ?It just hits the spot. I always get the mixed chicken / gyro. ?It's $6, but you can give them $8 and they pack it to the very edge of the container. A real NY treasure, I eat here several times a month. Tip: the one across the street is the same exact food, shorter line. ?Make DAMN SURE that you don't get it from a knockoff cart. ?There's one just down the street on 52nd.
This stuff is good, worth the line and you get great portions. ?So good that i force feed myself even though i'm full because i'll regret not eating it the next morning. Do not however get the hot sauce! I'm like the retarded hamster that keeps getting electrocuted in a science experiment..i just never learn. ?Sauce is so hot, it always ends up with me laying on the floor and making peace with the world. ?It's not spicy going in but is neutron star hot going out. ?Unless you wanna start trippin balls, do not get the hot sauce.
I always love going to these guys whenever I'm in New York late at night and craving some lamb. I definitely recommend these guys and no other cart for some good platters. Cheap and delicious, you get one giant serving of rice, lettuce, choice of meat, and pieces of bread. Add their famous mix of white sauce and it is just beyond delicious. Although their line is always long as hell, their service is quick to serve. I exclusively order the lamb platter from them and it is always delicious. ?Never once has their food disappointed me.
Delicious, fast on the go, cheap medditeranean food
This is strictly a review of the Halal guys cart located on 7th ave and 53rd street. As I waited on the line to order, my co-workers and I witnessed the man who was handling the cash with his right hand (hand had a glove he didn't replace) he grabbed the lettuce and pita bread with his right hand. Then would take the cash dip his right hand (glove still on) in his apron pocket to pull out singles to make change and again handle the food with his right hand (SAME GLOVE ON!). When one of my co-workers pointed out that he shouldn't handle food after touching cash the man asks him if he was from the health department????? My co-worker calmly stated his handling of cash and food is a health violation. Again, the man from this famous halal stand asked if my co-worker was from the health department. What is needed here is a reality check for these guys. A violation is a violation. Playing with someone's health is NOT acceptable. Wake up because the health department will be next. No regard for your health just your money! This happened today btw 12-1pm.
Fast service and yummy food! You get a lot for you money and it is easy to grab on the go. Even though it always seems to be a line you never have to wait for long since they have a working and pretty effective way to deal with lines. I am honestly not a big fan of food stands on the street like this but.. I can definitely go with the Halal guys.
$6 for the best drunk or sober street food in NYC. Go for the mix combo and use the hot sauce sparingly!
One of the best food carts I've eaten at across the country. Great flavors, kind service. I'm in town for three days and I'll be back for more!
Their hot sauce is literally the hottest sauce. All good though.
I've definitely had better gyros/halal. ?I asked for no onions but they only had a pre-made mix full of onions. ?If you're looking for great gyros try Turkiss down by NYU. ?If you're in midtown, the cart on 47th/Lex is on point every time.
Good amount of food for a great price. Always consistent! Love the red hot sauce, but don't underestimate it.
LEGIT. Halal Guys definitely hits the spot whether sober or intoxicated. Out of all the eateries we hit up in NYC, this was the most memorable. I can't stop dreaming about the $6 mix chicken and gyro over rice...
Went here last night to the stand right across from the Hilton. Im with my date whom swears its the real deal. When we get over there I see the line of like 20 people and thinking what's the big deal?! its just a food stand. So we wait not terribly long since there are 4-5 guys working it. When we got the food I was blown away with how good it was. The chicken is flavorful, the gyro pita things taste good, the rice is good, the veggies are good. Oh and the coveted white sauce makes it even better. The portions are huge, 2 people could probably share one $6 bowl. Or definitely have lunch/dinner for the following day. Just amazingly good. If you're in the area and are hungry or looking for something inexpensive, I'd definitely recommend, ?the other reviews for these 'guys' are not wrong.
Very cheap but really good street food. Had halal from different vendors but this is way better.
Wow. I live here in the city all my life. Talk about connivence , cheap, and awesome food. Hands down, the halal guys are one of my favorite.
$6 for most filling and delicious meals I've had in NY. I think that's enough said.
for a casual, cheap foodgasm, visit the halal guys.
I'm not a huge meant-eater, but this place is good. The chicken and lamb had great flavor. I got the sauce on the side, which was nice, considering how spicy the red one is. Will be back!
I would wait hours for this food! When I first got there I saw the line was wrapped around the corner so I was hesitant with so many places to eat in NY but thank goodness I decided to wait! The line went by extremely fast and boy was the food worth it! The white sauce is to die for! The chicken is amazing. If you don't do anything else at the very least eat here! Very cheap and well worth it!
Oh man, this place is a great find! My friend told me about it so I went looking for it. It's a little far from my office, and the line was pretty darn long, but it was worth it! Add soon as I got near the place, the smell told me it would be worth waiting in line for. It didn't disappoint! ?I can't believe how much food you get for such little money. I can eat a good amount of food, but this was far too much to finish.
This food truck is great. ?I enjoy eating here every time I go!
I am a big street food fan.. Tried many of them in NYC over the past 5-6 years I have been here. I am especially picky about my Lamb or Chicken over rice.. I must say these guys are great. There quality of Rice and meat is awesome. I usually ask the cart vendors to show me the rice and meat before I try a new cart but these guys are amazing.. Their hot sauce is good too, not that I care about hot sauce. This is definitely one of the things to do in NYC...
love. never gets old! the best halal in midtown!
If you are going to travel to New York, you must visit this cart. ?The chicken and rice plate is amazing! And be sure to get the red and white sauce. ?If there is a line, just stick it out . There is nothing like eating a hotplate of chicken and rice on the side of the street at night in NYC . The combination of the rice, chicken and sauces cannot be duplicated. Once you try this place you be craving halaal food each time you are in New York !
I hate this damn truck! why do i say that and give 5 stars? becuase im from freaken boston! I was legit craving for this for a few days after trying it for the first time last summer. I WAS INSTANTLY HOOKED! that i ordered 2 more plates to bring back home and regret not buying anymore! I even looked up youtube videos on this truck and it really is that serious that there are those stupid imitators who even wear the same colored shirts so people would think they have a second cart. come on guys! you are all so sad! even going on yelp to rate it so terrible and all! silly competition. The guys who serviced me were also very nice, had a little conversation about boston and the city so its a pleasure for their services. and of course when i ask for it to have in a bag, they already know to stuff the bag up with so much sauce! that great magical white sauce that someone would kill for! and also, me and my buddies were so drunk one night that a friend of mine asked me to quickly dip my tongue in the hot sauce and FML that was so crazy hot! i recommend putting a few drips in the white sauce container, mix it thoroughly and pour it into your plate. This place is seriously good and as a tourist, the best thing i ever had in new york, even better than the restaurants I had there. PS. You seriously have to only eat it with the white sauce because without it, its going to taste so plain and dry. trust me
Forget the Statue of Liberty or the Top of the Rock, you must visit this cart when you're in NYC!! ?Perhaps, one of the best drunk eats in the city. ?Get the chicken and gyro combo with extra buttery pita bread and make sure to add more of that white and red sauce - HEAVENLY!!
Amazing! So glad that I read the reviews on this place. My eyes were bigger than my stomach and I ordered 2. I could have gotten 1 and shared with my husband. The white sauce is a MUST. I asked for some hot sauce to go, and it spilled in my bad. OMG mouth on FIRE LOL :) The guys are so kind, and the food is great! Sad that I'm leaving NYC tomorrow. My midnight food run at home is Taco Bell. I'm jealous of the New Yorkers who can come here for a midnight nosh ;)
We love them! Best Halal food in NYC! I can't say enough good things about their food. Love the mixed plate with white sauce. The hot sauce is really hot. You can always they the newbies who pile on the hot sauce and then can't eat it because its too hot.
I am currently craving this awhile I'm typing up this review and I'm excited excited to be back in January to eat this again. I love Halal Guys! Probably the best $6 I've ever spent in my entire life. Basically how it works is you start with rice, salad and pita bread then you pick your meat. I choose the chicken and lamb and it was such a delicious meal. It's actually alot of food, it can serve up to 2 people. I think I added too much red sauce though but it was still good overrall. This is a must if you're in New York. I had it at least 4 times during my 2 week stay in New York! The line tends to get super long and it's a free for all for your seatings.
The wait in line is worth it. They are super fast at getting your order and making the wait bearable. Loved the yogurt sauce with the chicken on rice. Plenty of other halal food carts, but this one is the best I've had. Great food for $6.
I like their food a lot but to be honest I dont think they handle it all to well. I dont expect much in terms on cleanliness from a street vendor, but they dont seem to do a very good job of that. I saw a guy once litterally drop the chicken and throw it back on the grill to be cooked. Avoided that batch all together.
With 4700 reviews, do I really need to review this place... The food- obviously delicious and perfect to end a night out in NYC. [Personally I'm a fan of the lamb+rice and the mixed (chicken/lamb)+rice.] I only wish they'd be nicer to customers..but I guess they're used to having to deal with an inebriated crowd. They're a little stingy in giving out the take-out containers of red/white sauce, but if you ask politely (bonus if you're sober), they usually say yes.
chicken and lamb combo + sliced up the pita (you have to ask them) + white sauce + dab of hot sauce + optional dabs of bbq sauce = best $6 to spend after a night out.
5 stars no questions asked. These guys ARE different. I ended up eating here when I wasn't able to eat at 5 guys around the corner because it was after 10. Well, am I ever glad my original plan didn't work out. Got the gyro over rice. Filling and delicious and inexpensive. Perfect late night NY street food.
The chicken and lamb over rice is the real deal Holyfield. This place comes as advertised. It is a must for every visitor to NYC. There are several locations to choose from and it's very inexpensive.
Believe the hype! I saw the Eater NY article about Halal Guys signing a deal to start franchising so I figured I better get a taste of the original before they became too middle america lol. ?I got the mix plate (1/2 lamb, 1/2 chicken) and I was so hungry that I kept debating the whole time that I was standing in line (not too long, maybe 10 folks in front of me, but I came for a really early dinner) whether I should offer to pay more and ask for "double the meat". ?I finally decided against that because they have a well-oiled process in place to move the line along very quickly and I didn't want to hold it up with my special request. I handed the guy exact change of $6 (only!) and brought the meal back in its bright yellow bag to my hotel room to gorge on. ?It was flavorful, moist, delicious! ?Definitely hit the spot (after having just a veggie salad for lunch). There's way more rice obviously, but plenty of meat! ?And yes do heed the warnings about the hot sauce. ?I sprinkled on the smallest amount possible and it was still very fiery! Now off to get a froyo to cool things off!
I ate at Halal Guys everyday in NYC. I was quite pleased and very grateful for it. I did in fact say "Alhumdulillah!" when I saw them. I'd seen their food carts on past extended stays in NYC but never had a moment to stop and get anything. This time, I had the lamb over rice (Tuesday), Falafel over rice (Wednesday and Thursday), fish over rice (Friday). All of my friends ate it as well. It was so good that I didn't eat lunch at the hotel where my meetings were held because I just wanted Halal Guys. One night I walked outside and found a huge line of people that I appropriately guessed were from Iran and a few from Pakistan (with a few other cultures in between. Gotta love how cultured NYC is, so beautiful!). Smiling, we nodded at each other almost with relief that a halal shoppe with amazing food was right here on 3 corners of a main avenue and in walking distance from the hotel. Though I ate there a lot I spent very little because they are so affordable. I think I spent about $15 a day (got extra for later) and sometimes left a tip/didn't accept the change because I was just so grateful for the wonderful service. The staff was friendly and spoke Arabic. Though they spoke English just fine, I didn't HAVE to complete my order in English. It was refreshing and made me feel at home. I look forward to eating there often. It's a must!! Shukran jazillan! My new favourite place in New York!!
The best late night, cheap eats in the city. I live in Midtown east, and go out of my way to get this and walk home over 20 mins of stumbling as I eat this with the white sauce which most people would consider liquid crack. Be careful with the hot-sauce ... truly hot and could ruin the flavor if you dont love your mouth to be on fire.
love it
FRIGGIN. AWESOME. Careful of the hot sauce, I'm korean and it's a bit much for me if you pour it all over.
It's a food truck on the side of the road so no real seating. Halal Guys is a "restaurant"/food truck that my friends recommended to me as a "must go" for our trip to New York. After visiting it 2 times (at 2 different locations), I believe I have a fairly good idea of what this place is like. First off, Halal Guys is one of the countless halal food places you can find in New York. Since I have not tried the other halal places (although I saw my friend try once), I can't give a perfect comparison between the few. However, I do believe it is significantly better than many other places! The items to get here are the chicken and lamb combo meal. If you are at a food truck, your order will be given to you within 2 minutes. Along with your box lunch, you will receive a couple little cups of sauce that you can add to your meal, which I highly suggest applying. After that, I believe the meal was actually not too bad. The meal I got from the food truck had a crap load of rice at the bottom, and topped off with lamb, chicken, and gyro bits. The rice is so-so cooked, but I mean considering the price (around 6 bucks), for how much food you are getting it is a great deal. One warning is DO NOT GET THE FALAFEL MEALS HERE. My friend, a vegetarian, got the meal from the food truck and was heavily disappointed by the quality of the meal. It might be better in a store, but if you are getting your meal from a food truck, def don't get the falafel cuz all you will paying 6 dollars for will be a box of rice with some badly cooked falafel balls (they taste dry as heck). In all, this place should be visited if you are in new york. Since it provides really fast service and gives you a pretty decent and pretty decently sized meal, I would recommended it to most people :) (just not vegetarians).
Amazing food and a great value! Flew in to the City late on a Sunday night. Fortunately, the hotel was just a stone throw away from the Halal Guys food cart. There were a few things I wanted to try while in the city. First, try a New York bagel. Second, a New York pizza, third a New York cheesecake. And fourth, the Halal Guys. Except perhaps for the cheesecake, the Halal Guys was one of the places that was a hit for me. It's nothing fancy but it was delicious. And, it was inexpensive! I've seen this place featured in one of the food channels before but can't recall exactly which one. What I do remember is that it's a good value and they have a separate line for cops and service workers. Cool. Not surprisingly, there was a line when I got there at 11pm. But, it moved quickly. Opted for the chicken over rice $6. It came with two containers of white sauce and two smaller containers of hot sauce. I'm not exactly sure what's in it but when you mix everything together it's amazing. It's a great value too when you compare the portion size to the price. Must try if you are in the city!
CHEAP. LARGE PORTIONS. YUMM! To avoid long waits, go to the one in 7th ave! tastes the SAME! it's from the same guys, with NO LINE! I like it with a lot of sauce (both white and hot sauce).
I don't even live in New York, but love eating here every chance I get. $6 gets you a heaping plate of turmeric-scented rice, perfectly spice lamb, "salad', and bread to cover with all the white sauce your heart desires. It's probably enough for 3 meals, but I'm lucky if it lasts more than one. The line may be long, but they understand how to move quickly, especially if it's in the late-night-bar-crowd-crush. Spend an extra $2 to get a drink and maybe you'll be able to handle some of the spicy red sauce, too.
Life's too short to exercise restraint when you're in the vicinity of Halal Guys. Just be aware that life will become even shorter after consuming a platter.
New location on 14th between 2nd and 1st is even closer to me, so even better! I think their spicy sauce is stronger now. Other then that best halal you will ever find. The staff is so friendly and chill. Only downside is when you order inside the restaurant it costs more, I believe $7 and some change, but hey that's what happens when you have to pay rent in the city.
Hands down, the very best if you want to try good Halal street food! If the line is long, don't venture off and try a knock-off option - just try coming back at a later time or the following day - it's definitely worth the wait. PROS - The food always tastes fresh, never had a bad experience with this place - The synergy between the chicken, rice, lettuce, white sauce, and hot sauce is amazing - Pita, please? - a nice chewy yet light pita? two thumbs up! - HOT sauce - there is a reason why they pack this devilish sauce in itty bitty containers...proceed with caution! I challenge you: Where else can you get a delectable meal for $6?
I really don't easily give in when trying new eateries, nonetheless outdoors. However, a friend of mine brought me here one night at 2am and if there's anything I was pissed at, it was the fact that didn't know about this place from the jump! The best halal I've ever tasted for $6 dollars hands down. Also the freshest, one truck is chopping up the freshly stored lamb and chicken, the other cooking and dishing out the orders. If you have friends in town, this is the place to break em in.
3.5 to be fair!!! Yes it was my first time ever going there, yes I did eat everything (with the help of Sam M). Yes the line is a decent one anytime you go. ?Why I'm not giving 5 stars? The flavors were not there. The chicken was mediocre so was the rice so was the naan. You guessed it I ordered chicken over rice. ?I would like to try their gyro in a wrap next time to see if it changes my mind. ?It was unique to see people super dressed up getting food from here and then there were casual locals and then the tourists who wanted to know what the big popularity was about. I think it's good to try local favorites such as Halal Guys. They have an empire of carts with 5 locations. The best option for late night or you want something to quick on the go. I would try them again just because the sauces were good, specially the red sauce was spicy and not sour like most places, and the white sauce did improve the taste of the lack of seasoning for sure!
If I could just give the halal guys 5 stars and walk away without saying anything else I would. It's that good. Halal guys is the epitome of New York City in an aluminum bowl, wrapped in a yellow bag with red writing. You'll feel as though Christmas morning is being handed to you. +CHEAP. ($6 a bowl y'all, and the generous portions lasts me two meals. ***CASH ONLY***) +QUICK. (Don't fear the line, it goes by super quick, you'll get to the front before you can go through your entire instagram feed, trust me. Perfect opportunity to make some new friends, NYC is such a diverse place!) +DELICIOUS. +SPICY. (if you want it to be, but don't get too cocky with the red sauce... they don't play around with spicy here.) +SAUCY. (that white sauce is boss, don't forget it!) +SEXY. I can't ever leave NYC without paying a visit to my favorite guys first. ;)
Stop by for some rice over chicken with a selection of sauces.Sit nearby and watch the world go by.
Their lamb gyros and rice plates are consistently delicious and juicy. They're what I crave at 4 AM after clubbing. Never had their chicken, so I can't say. Their falafels aren't very good, mostly dry and cold or lukewarm, so just stick with lamb. If you want falafels, the other halal food carts are way better - hot and crispy, just how i like 'em.
So i saw these reviews and decided to pop by while I was in midtown last week. I must say there was a big line and it took roughly 15 mins to get food. I got the mixed meat with rice and salad. I also got the white and red sauce as recommended by fellow yelpers. The quality of the meat is quite poor, and you can tell its the lowest quality (otherwise why would it be so cheap?!?). Afterwards my stomach churned and it took at least 2 days to digest and 3 days to get the taste out of my mouth. For a cheap eat, i would recommend $1 pizza and maybe a rat on the street, than eating here.
oh the goodness... lamb over rice with a warm pita, go easy on the hot sauce because it really is hot. ?the price is the best factor, I think... line moves fast
Definitely my favorite street food in NYC. The food is extremely fresh (served hot), cheap and yet scrumptious. If you eat meat, i would strongly recommend the gyro over rice. It' absolute heaven. you can also go for the chicken and gyro combo. The only gotcha? Tread carefully with the amount of hot sauce you put in. It's one of the spiciest ones around (read volcano brand spicy).
Amazing at anytime of the day. Could favors could be adjusted a little bit. Hot sauce is extremely hot use with caution. Soda cans are 2.00 way over priced.
Staple NY halal, cheap and worth the wait. ?Belongs on the rank of places to stand in line for to try.
If we will eat here you never pity about it! It cost only 6$... You can take 1 portion for 2 people!
All that hype got to their head. The food is different now, prices are higher! and you have to pay extra for the falafel!! that is unacceptable ... i avoid them like the plague there are much better carts in the area. Esp in the fidi area near maiden & Front...thats my go to spot now. It's still only $5 and you get the falafel like the old days!
You can never go wrong with the lamb and rice with extra white sauce!
This is the best halal food i had in NY. The best dish is the lamb & rice! The flavor is great and the quantity is excellent with great price. My advice would be to stay away from the red hot sauce, it is REALLY SPICY! And i can handle some heat but that sauce is not required. Just use the white sauce and you will be thoroughly satisfied.
My mouth is still watering, it might have been my favorite part of NYC. I wanted to try this place so bad, nothing was going to stop me! And it was alllll worth it :) Even in sub zero degrees and snow, ice they were out there cooking and the line was still down the street! Tell me that's not some good food! After freezing our butts off for 20mins waiting, we ordered the lamb and chicken platter with the white sauce and a little red... wooo! If you're not a spicy fan, definitely order the red on the side, it is SPICY!!!!!!!! If it was a nice day there are a million ledges to sit on and enjoy this meal but because it was 0 degrees we headed over to Rockefeller Center and found a table there to eat. It was so good it was crazy. Sad I didn't get the red sauce on the side and also sad I couldn't finish it all and didn't want to carry it the whole night back to the hotel. It could've been enough for 2 people, my boyfriend probably ate less than I did. Can they come down to DC because I need this in my life every day!
this is good, but not 45 minute good. I would also note that the other carts that are the same symbol of each of the four corners really really are the same (so please visit them). I actually think that down the street on 47th, there is another cart which does chicken and rice and adds and EGG - that man is genius.
I think this place is COMPLETELY overrated. I didn't find anything really that special about it. The chicken isn't that good and the rice is meh. I know its pretty popular, but I'm just not a fan.
Considering this as my first legit halal cart meal, it was actually pretty good. The chicken is spiced nicely, and the rice compliments the chicken well. The white sauce is really nice and creamy; nice texture to go with the soft chicken. When they ask if you want hot sauce, they mean HOT sauce. So if you're a fan of it, and enjoy the feeling of your tongue coming straight back from hell, be their guest. If you have time, then the line for the place is right for you. If you're in a rush and there's a line, you're better off going somewhere else. $6 for a big aluminum bowl of chicken and rice is a keeper. I enjoyed it. Keep it halal, habibis. It's the way to go.
Worth the line.
$6 for a HUGE plate of food!!! Cant go wrong. Must try.
One of my all time favorite places and groups of employees. ?Love it +
I'm a fan of almost every Halal cart I eat from. The food always seems to be good. The Halal Guys are no exception to this. It's Manhattan so sometimes the line to get food is very long even though the guys are very fast to get things moving. When home back in Queens I am a big fan of Sammy cart in Jackson Heights for the sauces they have. That's the one thing that cart has ahead of the Halal Guys. All being said though, This cart has really good food and rice and I wouldn't hesitate to get the halal cart craving food from here at all
From all of the reviews this place has, it pretty much speaks for itself, but I'll write a review nonetheless. ? I would say this is a must have if you're visiting NYC. ?Not only is this place delicious, but it is cheap and affordable!! ?For just $6 you can get chicken over rice meal that can feed 2-3 people. ?The chicken is nice and tender, but what really makes it amazing is their rice. ?I have no clue what they season it with, but it is phenomenal. ?It is a very different and distinct taste, that's for sure. ?They have this sauce that you can add to your meal, it's sort of ranch based. ?Even if you're not a big fan of ranch, you will want to add this to your meal. ?It makes the meal 10x better. ?They also have a hot sauce that you can add to your meal, be warned because IT IS HOT. ?I love spicy and I have a high tolerance for it, but boy it this sauce hot. ?I wouldn't over due it and smother the entire meal with is, but it small doses it definitely amplifies the taste of the food. ? There are no seats available to eat, so you can either eat on the side walk nearby or take it home to eat. ?The lines get pretty long, about 25-40 minute wait, but I would say it is totally worth it.
Great food when you don't want to spend a lot of money or you already spent a bunch of money in the surrounding area and want to feel full. Also great when your drunk! this is the best halal spot so eat away!!
So it's just a bowl of rice and meat??.. You better fucking believe it. Halal guys is literally the best way to spend 6 bucks in all of NYC. The food portion is massive and the staff is no bullshit types. Get in, get your food, get lost. It's sick. They have three sauces to put on your food; a tahini style, BBQ, and a very hot chili sauce. Put all three to work if you're not scared.
Things to know! 1) you will be waiting in some sort of line. 2) it will move quickly, these guys know how to pump out orders and keep you happy 3) you will want to order EXTRA white sauce, its that good 4) if you are on the fence about spicy, maybe just try the red sauce, or use both red and white, its a little on the hot side. 5) there is already a bajillion reviews, mine is pointless, i am just solidifying the fact that they are this good. 6) $6 combo (Chicken & Lamb) = home run -- seriously $6
I appreciate these guys - If I happen to be in the area and on my way home I would pass by and make sure I got a mixed over rice for dinner. It is not a weekly thing, but once in a while, yes! Its tasty with the white and hot sauce. Healthy, I don't know - for once in a while it's fine.
Yummy! I got the chicken and hubby got the mix chicken and lamb. A must eat if you're in NY. You won't be disappointed.
Food sat very heavy in stomach. Very greasy. Flavor ok but nothing to write home about. You would do better to cross 6 th ave and get food from the Korean cart.
Best late night meal!! I've been coming here ever since 2007. I always make it a point to bring all of my non-NY friends here. This may as well be the highlight of most people's night. Few tips: -WHITE SAUCE is the bomb. Just down your bowl with it. -Careful of the red sauce. Even if you like spicy stuff, this is REALLY spicy -There are two carts across the street from each other. They are the same -$6 combo (chicken & lamb) is the way to go
great late late night snack! deliciously amazing
White sauce. That's all you need to know about the amazingness of the halal guys.
Top notch chicken and lamb on rice. I normally don't like halal chicken, but I love the mixed chicken and lamb here, nicely spiced and not dry at all. The food even reheats well! The best hot sauce around- I always complain that they've given me too little, only to empty the teeny container or two into my food and severely regret it the moment the food touches my taste buds! [so spicy, but it burns so good!] The lines here are long at times, so keep an eye out for their new carts across the street (look for the yellow Halal Guys bags)
The best food cart in the best city in the world. Get a Combo Lamb/Chicken over rice with extra white sauce and a hint of hot sauce. Ask for no vegetables to get more chicken and rice. Don't go overboard on the hot sauce or you'll regret it later. Overall the best meal in the city with a 6 dollar price tag to go along with it.
Awesome food after a night of drinking!
So here's the deal... late night drunk good. ?Lines after 1AM can get damn right insane but the food is good. Recommendations, avoid the chicken and go lamb with rice. ?Their hot sauce is mind numbingly hot. ?Like can't leave the bathroom the next day at work and people judge me hot. ?Use it sparingly. ?The white sauce is like a dill sauce that is refreshing and amazing. ?Grab the sauces on the side of the cart, douse your rice and protein with the sauce and go nuts. ?They also sell drinks at a cart right next to them. ? Hot damn the place is great but it is great late night while slightly loaded.
SoCal kid in NY and when I heard "Halal cart" I was like wtf?! The reviews were off the charts so I said F*&$ it.. we doin this! WHOA the food was DELICIOSO!!! I'm not even playin, it was the most memorable street food I had in NY and NY has an amazing array of street food. I had the combo plate which includes chicken, lamb, pita, and rice all sauced up in spicy goodness. It's fast, cheap and super filling. I have 1 bone to pick with "The Halal Guys".. These dudes could not stop looking at my girls culo. It's like they never saw a beautiful girl in their lives!! Anyway the food was so good I took it as a compliment just next time I'm gonna put my girl in a Burka. Peace
Spiciest hot sauce in all of Midtown. I'm West Indian so I can properly gauge how hot "peppa sauce" is. Rice is always delicious but that is where it goes downhill. The chicken is always bland and flavorless to me no matter how much I drench it in sauce. These guys give you a ton of food for $6, the line moves quickly and the food is ok. There are much better street meat carts in Manhattan like Kwik Meal. Occasionally when I work super late I'll grab a bite from here but for the most part I think the cart is just hype.
I heard these guys are millionaires.... and I wouldn't be surprised because this super affordable plate is SO GOOOOOOOOOD. The amount of food is a lot! Never had anything like this and it definitely lived up to its hype. The rice was perfectly seasoned and cooked perfectly. The meat, the sauces... everything just blended perfectly! So worth the wait, which is generally quick even though it's long. Look at this address on Yelp/Google and don't accidentally go to the other 'fake' ones. Ugh, now I'm craving this and I don't even like street foods. Would I say it's the top quality? No, but this is very NYC and their food is super special.
At first, I thought this place was extremely overhyped because Halal carts are all over the city. Although the line was very long, the wait was relatively quick. For $6, you're given great proportion size of food. The sauce was just right! The meat to rice ratio was perfect as well! The meat itself was very tender and flavorful. This is a must-have; we will be back!
When you come up to the cart, you see a simple cart, 3 cool looking swarthy guys handling customers quickly. They have to be quick because the line has about 25 + ppl at all times. I went past the cart the first time, thinking it would be shorter later, not at all, so I gave in. ?I liked it ok, but I dont really see what the fuss is all about. It wasnt bad though.
It's very easy to try fall victim to what would look like the Halal Guys but get stuck at some knock off that for whatever reason wasn't made in China. ?Luckily, we were able to find the Real McCoy. I will say that the prices are hella reasonable given that its New York City. ?It's enough to feed for a day--six to eight days if you're a college student. They have the ordering process down to the original Ford factory. ?So efficient that they cut out some crucial steps, and we were forced to back track to get a couple of simple things like to-go lids and containers of their mythical sauces, aptly named White Sauce (that's what she said) and Red Sauce. I dunno whether they were being difficult by it took a minute of my friend sweet talking the dude short of flipping tricks on the side to get the dude to fork it over. Doesn't detract from the place or the food. ?I'z jus' sayin'... Be careful; that Red Sauce is potent. ?I wouldn't be surprised of the unknowing were #2'ing hot lava and flame throwing the next day.
Heaven. And such nice people serving it.
Went to their new store near Union Square -- very clean and awesome food. Definitely get the spicy sauce.
This is the best NYC "Street Meat" around. Definitley a must have at 4am after a night of bar hopping. Learned about this years ago from a kid I went to school with and have introduced everyone I know to go here at least once.
Overly hyped. The hot sauce is like the devil's saliva. Couldnt breathe after a bite of it.. & I rly do like hot sauce): Ordered a lamb & chicken combo.. the meat came out shredded like tuna. Literally tuna. Great location, though.
This is my go to place when I want any kind of halal food in the city. The wait is worth it! ?From what I noticed, the lines are usually longer very late at night. It's okay though because the workers there are actually very quick and efficient. ?I don't even want to go to any other halal truck in the city because I know I will just be disappointed. ?I've been here sober and not so sober at times and it always hits the spot. ? Be careful with the red sauce, it is VERY VERY spicy. I can only handle a few drops. I prefer drenching my platter in the white sauce. ?That white sauce is so freaking good! Do they put crack in there?! As good as it tastes, this is definitely not something I would eat every time I go to the city. I know some people that drive all the way to the city to eat this. I wouldn't. ?It's definitely not healthy and the meat is not quality (you get what you pay for). There are so many great options in the city. I usually come here for a really late night meal and ?it's usually when someone else wants it. It tastes so good while you're eating this type of food but after you're done eating, you kind of regret it because of the way you are feeling afterwards lol. The portions are huge and the price is VERY good ($6 for a platter), I suggest sharing it or taking some of it to go because you will feel like crap if you eat the entire thing. Food coma to the max if you eat it all!
This is great for a street cart... The food itself is good, but it's the sauce that makes it great! This is worth a try at least once.
The Good: the food! Good lord this place is legit. For $6 it cannot be beat. Who knows what the hell is in the white sauce but it's damn amazing. Urban folklore has it that the sauce is made by culinary angels and delivered to earth on soft white clouds. I hit this place up regularly and don't think twice about making the trek all the way from Harlem. Do it. The Bad: the wait, but I get it, it's great food. The Ugly: absolutely nothing.
Gyro over rice. It's amazing what they've accomplished with lamb and a food truck. This is mobile culinary excellence. If you think you can handle the spice of the red sauce, you have another thing coming.
Upon arrival at NYC on Friday night... my first stop was Halal Guys. Yup, I took a cab directly from the bus terminal to Halal Guys! They pass my criteria for amazing food: 1. cheap. 2. delicious 3. large portions (i brought my 2nd half back to Boston and was crying over every delicious bite) 4. quick 5. delicious. People say this is the best drunk food around in NYC, but it's delicious even when sober, haha. Be careful, the red hot sauce is dangerously hot... just a small amount and my mouth was on fire!
Honestly, they've kind of gone down in quality since they became famous and featured in time out ny and other various media. ?The lines are ridiculously long and that corner of the street it's always hard to tell who the real halal guys are and who the non real ones are? Also, I actually have had the big apple halal guys and it was the same. ?I don't understand why one cart has a line down the block and then there's this shady shifty cart 10 feet away that's empty. ?I only give it 4 stars because im so pro putting my own sauce without any judgement and without having to say...more..more..more..ok you know what, I know that seems like too much but just keep squeezing....=/ Also, know when the guys are around because there are imposter carts there in the morning and afternoon.
Great food for the price. that 6 dollar meal can last you the whole day. I was in NYC for 3 daysa and i went to The Hallal guys twice. Definitely a must have when visiting NYC. Don't hold back on the white sauce, especially if you're on vacation! Use the spicy sauce with caution..... I learned that the hard way..... 4 stars only because its not unbelievably goood, it is GOOD for the price
Meh food for a good price. I can't be too harsh on these guys since for $6, you get a lot of food- really cheap for manhattan standards. The food you get is something you can easily make at home: saut?ed ground lamb and/or (really dry) chicken over a bed of rice, topped with shredded lettuce. You also get some type of pita bread and sometimes onions and peppers on top. There are sauces available: ranch, BBQ, and spicy chili. I made a stupid mistake and inundated my food with spicy chili sauce, because I thought it was BBQ. Do not make the same mistake I did! At night, the color difference between the sauces can be hard to distinguish, resulting in a burnt tongue and a painful trip to the toilet. Also, one final point: from what I observed, the cart on the SW corner of 53rd and 6th usually has a really long line at night- maybe around 75 people. However, the cart on the NW corner of 52nd and 6th usually has very short lines or no line. THEY ARE THE SAME GUYS AND SERVE THE SAME FOOD. Just go to that cart instead, you don't even need to cross the street!
I've never not seen a line here before. ?During all hours of the day, the Halal Guys always have a line down the block. ?Don't be discouraged because the line does go by quickly. Throughout the years, I've seen this food cart get bigger and bigger. ?The service and quality hasn't changed. ?It's cheap, service is quick and the food is delicious. The hottest, spiciest hot sauce ever. ?Just a little does the trick. ?The white sauce is so addictive, you will want more even if your plate is loaded up. My favorite is the combo platter with chicken and lamb. ?You get the best of both worlds.
Pepper sauce that's actually hot, mixed with cream of god knows what and high quality shawarma. ?I can't eat chicken or lamb from other places because this was so good. ?Add in some nutritionless lettuce and you've got yourself an NYC icon.
Everyone told me to try it when I said I was going to visit New York... so there... it's quite amazing! I think the magic of this 'white sauce' is really Mayo + some mix of seasoning... you HAVE to add it... or a lot of it. Hot sauce... is crazy hot, at least in my opinion... but then again, I'm not a spicy eater... so beware before you drench your meal with it. Serving size is HUGE! I can make two meals out of it... and it taste quite nicely the next day too. Waiting time is long if you are adamant about buying your meal at the 'original' stand, but the entire block is run by The Halal Guys, so if you want to save some time, cross the street or walk down to the opposite corner of the block. See photos for their other locations. Don't expect much from customer service, but the guys are very efficient moving the line along.
Every Time I'm in New York I eat at this place. Seriously the best cheap eat in the city. So much food for $6
What can I say that others on Yelp have yet to say. This place is amazing. They're famous for a reason and it's because their food is bomb. My boyfriend and I tried this place after we saw Avenue Q and instantly fell in love. We loved it so much that we had to go again after another show we saw on Broadway. Our first time we ordered two combo plates. We didn't realize the portions were huge. We ended up having to throw half of it away. You pay 6$ for these huge plates of rice, lettuce, pita, chicken/gyro, and these amazing sauces. What a deal. Our second time around we were smart and only ordered one with only gyro. We both preferred the gyro meat because it was, in our opinion, more juicy and tender. I can't wait to come back to NYC and eat at Halal Guys again. Note: at first we were confused why there were so many Halal Guy carts in the span of the same area, we thought some of them were fakes. Although, we read later that the carts around it are the same company but people prefer the first one, which is the one in the corner of the street.
cheap,fresh, and good!
best place for the yummy and cheapest food in nyc
Awesome food. Long lines but the food is worth the wait. Chicken over rice always hit the spot :)
This isn't the "best" Halal in the city, but it's a great value (and very tasty). ?Sometimes, when they aren't looking, I fill my pockets with white sauce and run away. ?Totally worth the price of a new pair of jeans.
Burning the midnight oil to hit this place up was definitely worth it. I happen to come across Halal Guys after a rave at Roseland Ballroom. Definitely one of the most enjoyable experience I had and nothing taste better than some delicious halal food after shuffling for like 5 to 6 hrs. I got the lamb as I had the chicken before and unlike other halal stands, The Halal Guys' chicken is rather bland because they do not spice it or marinate it, rather they just cook the chicken breast with some salt and pepper. I would recommend the lamb instead and if you insist on chicken then at least get the mixed rice if not put a lot of white sauce and a bit of barbecue sauce to give it a bit more taste to the plain chicken. I would hold off on the hot sauce as it runs closer to the spicy end of hot sauces. I would not ask them to put it in for you, instead put a little at a time as your own discretion for a better balance in taste. They include a pita bread which is adds a much needed textural element to the dish. No doubt about it, The Halal Guys is something everyone has to visit and get a taste of it. Nothing says a good night out then ending it at 3 am with some halal food from them. I went extremely late, however they open up pretty much around 7 pm and close at 4 am. When they open, there is usually a line there for the legendary cart so its best to go later if possible.
Yummers!
If you are in NY and do not go here... you must be crazy, the best food on the planet, everytime im in NY i try and take some back home with me to San Francisco, Simply the best
Coming from Southern CA, late night Mexican food is the fourth meal of choice, but this is honestly an amazing alternative since moving to the east coast. I was weary of trying street food in NY just because sometimes it doesn't seem to be the most sanitary, but every time I've had this I've been absolutely fine - not to mention really surprised at how delicious it is. As everyone says, hot sauce is SUPER hot - watch out. They only give you a dab and it is plenty. A little goes a very long way. The white sauce is amazing, too, I usually get a little extra to balance the kick of the hot sauce. Plates are huge, definitely good for drunk munchies or if you're super hungry walking around the city. There is always a line and they are always quick! Love them!
After being a long time patron, maybe I'm just getting spoiled but I feel like the quality of this place has gone downhill in the last couple years. Some of the workers are also pretty rude sometimes. I mean the food is not bad and it's still a great value but a lot of times it's just hype. I'll bring my friends when they come from out of town but for me, I prefer other carts in the city.
Wow! I am in shock, this place is the SH*T! ?The food is not greasy or salty, very tasty and was hot and ready to eat! ?Made chillin in Midtown West great tonight, good eats! We Came. We Ate. We Loved Halal!
Best drunk food ever. What more can you ask for $6
Absolutely greatness! Delicious, cheap and fast! What else you want to expect from a food cart
I'm starting to feel like the east coast is more privileged solely based on good food! Another 5 star joint that I will forever crave until I can make it out to this side of the America again! I got the gyro + chicken mix plate, drenched it in that white sauce and sat down on the stones next to the cart, freezing my butt off in pure happiness. ? This is definitely a joint that NEEDS to be visited if ever in the area. ?There are carts similar, but not as good as this one. ?Eating here is doing yourself a huge service! ?Your happiness level with definitely increase!
So happy their great food now is on 14th street - got the combo over rice -- it last for 2 days and was utterly delicious.
The halal guys never fail me. It satisfies my every late night craving in every way. The portion size is huge with the chicken being perfectly cooked and the rice always fluffy. Definitely different from the crap that's available near me. That being said, it's always worth a trip here as the taste and price are always on point. Easy on the hot sauce unless you really like the kick because it is hoooot but extremely delicious.
BY FAR ONE OF THE BEST HALAL SPOTS AROUND!!! Don't go too crazy with the red sauce though, it's spicy. The price is perfect, the food is excellent, just wish they'd open one up in NJ.
I couldn't tell any difference between their food and other halal food elsewhere. Their food taste normal and nothing really impressed me. Besides, the rice was dry and the falafel was horrible. I waited 15 minutes and the food is not worth the wait.
This spot is legendary!! ?its 5:30 in on sunday morning and my mouth is watering just thinking about the amazing..one of a kind Chicken and rice!!!!! Don't forget to get extra white sauce!
I legitimately look forward to NYC trips in part due to the Chicken & Rice (that's what all my friends referred to it as in college) cart. ?I've been frequenting this spot for about 10 years now and it never disappoints. ?I personally prefer the lamb & rice combo, with a ton of white sauce, and a ton of red sauce (probably way beyond a healthy amount). ?The meat is always juicy and perfectly seasoned, and they always give a generous helping, which is not the norm at most carts, or even restaurants. ?The rice & salad balance out the bold flavors of the meat in a complimentary way, and the sauces are uniquely delicious. ?The white sauce is not exactly a tzatziki, nor a garlic paste, or any other sauce you've tasted - you just have to try it. ?The red sauce is SPICY - I consider myself a spice lover, but even I have over done it by mistake, so I recommend you starting with a smaller amount than you think you can handle. The best part is that you can get all this deliciousness for less than $10! ? Give it a try, you won't be disappointed! ?[it's a near statistical impossibility :)]
This place really was worth all the hype. For just $4, I got a delicious chicken gyro mix on a pita. The meat is so fresh and tender, much higher quality than say the halal that is served outside next to the megabus terminal. That secret sauce adds some serious pop to the dish. Now I've gotta go back and try it over rice! Overall, it's quite the spectacle to see so many people lined up at 10pm on a week night... And there are two food trucks on each side of the street, each w four guys working them since there's so much demand! Go experience it, the line actually moves quite fast.
Guess I'm definitely in the minority here, but I don't understand all the hype about this place. Stopped by with a friend for a late lunch, got the mixed chicken and gyro over rice, put reasonable amounts of white sauce and hot sauce - their hot sauce is HOT! I love eating spicy food and put about as much as everyone else around me did but literally started crying (with pain? joy?) at one point because it was just so damn hot, even after I gulped down the entire contents of my water bottle. One serving is huge. And 80% meat (my guy friend was a very enthusiastic fan of this fact). While I was eating all of it I couldn't stop, though not actually sure if that was because it was delicious or because it was sinfully spicy - heavily leaning towards the latter because of course the only way to stop your tongue from burning while eating spicy food is to eat more of it, yeah? But after I finished I felt sick from so much meat and oil and richness and ulcer-causing sauce. The food also didn't taste at all discernibly different from the cart food across the street. I guess I'll come back if I'm ever in the area and starving and in desperate need of a calorie injection and feeling rather masochistic that day, but otherwise no big hurries to visit again.
This place is definitely worth the hype. This small food truck packs a punch of flavor! I got the chicken and gyro rice plate mix which also comes with a bed of lettuce and flatbread. The rice is an orange rice (not sure what that is called). The meats were seasoned and cooked very nicely. Add some sauce- the white is very similiar (or maybe it really is) ranch, the dark brown is a bbq sauce and the dark red is a VERY spicy sauce so USE that sparingly. When I say sparingly i mean just a tad on one of the prongs of the fork. It's painfully satisfying and I do recommend trying it. It's a big portion so try sharing it :)
Delicious! I followed the recommendation of fellow yelpers and got the split plate. Do it! And to echo the other common recommendation, use extreme caution with the red sauce :) Best late night eats in NYC!
Can't go wrong with a big plate of chicken, lamb, rice, pita bread, topped with creamy white sauce/hot sauce/BBQ sauce...all for $6!!! Don't be intimidated by the line (even at 4am there was a huge line...), it moves pretty quickly and well worth it. The hot sauce is super hot!! I would recommend getting it in a side container so you don't burn your mouth like I did. I noticed that the other carts around the area had no one waiting and it was funny because they were actually transferring the meat from those carts to this one. Not sure how different the other carts taste but thought it was interesting that it's the exact same thing but people would rather wait in the line for the original. I can't wait to come back next time I visit!!!
I just waited in line 30 minutes and when i opened it up back to my desk it was entirely wrong. I ordered lamb gyro platter just white sauce, and i got chicken with onions, hot and white sauce. Pretty bummed. Moving so fast I couldn't tell it wasn't my order when they handed it to me.
Just the thought of having this over in California excites me! I can't have it now so just looking at all the savory pictures here on Yelp is only making me more anxious yet virtually satisfied! When I had the opportunity to eat this last year, their half chicken & lamb is way more delicious than just their chicken alone. And their food reheats days later into even more tastier and well absorbed flavors! I brought 2 back and they were devoured by the time I woke up. Sad to say, I didn't get one bite of my own leftovers ! That's how delicous these were :)
Once a month! mix plate rocks ;)
My wife and I come to the city mostly for this food on nights when we have a craving for the best street food around. We have been coming for five years and the quality and price has not changed.
overly hyped!! not bad when you really don't feel like eating anything expensive or when your in the area at 2 am after a long night of partying and your super hungry. ?But if you really want to experience the real halal food, the real chicken and rice? Go somewhere else where theres flavor and the chicken is not over cooked and dry.
Best in the city!
I come to new York a few times a year and despite the massive number of similar food trucks in the city I still trek all the way up here to this cart because it's (in my biased) opinion the best halal truck in the city. I went again last night with a friend after indulging in some adult beverages nearby at the Viceroy ?and so we were craving something awful for you and it clicked where we were in the city so I dragged his ass to 54th and 6th ?to try it. We both had the lamb wrap, over doused with their white sauce, my friend screamed out like a little girl when he took his first bite in awe of the explosion of awesomeness that proceeded the bite. I don't know what they do to the meat (and I probably don't want to know) but it's some of the most delicious gyro meat I've ever had. I've tried the plates too which are delicious but I stopped getting those cause it's too much food and every time my fat ass would get it I acted like I was in a military mess hall and I hadn't eaten in weeks but for those of you normal people it's a good option. Buon appetito!
halal guys ruined halal for me when i tried it. overly hyped, food was bland and had a weird aroma. whenever my boyfriend and i walk by nowadays and see the line, we're always like, we don't understand what the hype is all about because their food isn't that great but i mean, to each their own.
Very good halal food. ?Be warned...their hot sauce is the hottest I've had at any halal food stand. ?Don't be put off by the line, they process you very quickly and you'll have your food within 10-15 minutes.
Definitely worth trying at least once. Only trust the original on 53rd and 6th and their other limited locations.. All the other Halal's are fake.You can tell it apart by the long lines they get. Great food. We had the chicken and gyro plate. Gyro had a delicious seasoning in it. Good pita bread. Not a fan of rice in general, but I'd say their rice was tasty. Don't overload on the hot sauce, unless you have a very high threshold for spicy food. Also, don't be afraid to add the BBQ if you like your sauces.
The later the hour, the longer the line gets. Many people are not aware that there are 3 other stands in the immediate area that sell exactly the same thing and are run by the same guys. But if it's your first time, it's nice to experience the Line Ride.
If there is one thing that I miss most about my time living in NYC, it is most certainly The Halal Guys. Here in Rochester, NY, you can't get Halal - I'm devastated. No more drunkenly going up to 53rd & 6th and grabbing some deliciousness. If you have been living in NYC and haven't gone to The Halal Guys... What the fuck is wrong with you? Get your ass up right now and go (it's only 10pm... GO!) Oh, and make sure to dump all of the red sauce into your Halal and mix it around. It's delicious. JUST KIDDING. DON'T DO THIS. You'll see why not... I can't wait to get back to NYC and have some Halal Guys in my belly... That sounds very wrong...
There's a reason why this place is crowded 24*7. It's super-cheap, addictive cart food. What to get here? Lamb over rice or chicken/lamb combo over rice. Slather it with white and ?then hot sauce. Go easy on the hot sauce though, it's fiery hot. Don't fret it if you think you've not added enough. They place extra bottles on the side of the cart for you to pick up and squirt to your heart's content. For vegetarians, there's falafel over rice, but that's rather disappointing. There are much better falafel places in town. Other Tips: - If you've been here once and want to escape the crowd, these same guys have a cart on 53rd and 7th which has almost no crowd at all. It's the exact same food, but not many know of it. If it's your first time and you want to experience the craze, not minding the wait, go to their flagship spot on 53rd and 6th. - There are 2 carts on either side of 6th Av, 53rd st. The one on east side of the avenue is for to-go and is usually faster than the have-here cart on the west side of the road. - The portion size is huge, so if it's 2 of you, consider sharing. I wouldn't suggest saving the left overs for next day. Covering all the positives, I should remind you it's cart food after all. So yeah, unhealthy. ?Nevertheless, a "Sinful delight" is how I'd tag this food and come here once in a while giving in to my temptation!
I CRAVE YOU, I DREAM OF YOU, I WANT YOU IN MY BELLY! Combo platter to go; never fails whether it's 4am pulled over on the curb next to my own puke or just for filling my monthly cravings. They aren't stingy with their sauces, but they can be pretty rude when there's a line curving around the block and they want you out their face. Nevertheless, Halal is always a good idea.
We ate here twice in 4 days. ?The line is intimidating but goes fairly quick. ?We had the chicken over rice and gyro the first time but that was a lot of food. ?The second time, we just split the chicken over rice and that was dinner for two , $6. ?It was raining the second time we went but that didn't stop the line from forming down the block.
Heaven is a place on Earth at 53rd and 6th. $6 gets you a platter of delicious food that usually lasts me two days! Super cheap and GREAT quality. I always get the chicken and rice. And no meal is complete without their famous white sauce. You WON'T regret it. If you're looking to kick up your taste buds, the hot sauce is like fire! So good, but be careful. Even a little drizzle of that sauce on my food has my mouth spewing out flames. LOVE LOVE LOVE Halal Guys!
The best. The line is always down the block but moves very fast. Always a great option. Their white sauce is the best I've ever had.
The hot sauce is really good and the rice is nice but honestly the meat is not that good and it is too dry overall.
Bring on the hate lol By looking at the Yelp reviews, I am in the minority, but if I wanted shredded cat food, I would go to the local bodega and buy a can. Sammy's and King of Falafel is where it's at people, fyi, they both have Vendy Awards for a reason. I have been here twice and the portions are very generous, the chicken breast they serve is just OK and the hot sauce is just heat, there isn't much flavor to it. I am typically a firm believer in the longer the line, the better the food, but this adage does not apply here.
So good! I need to stop visiting NYC in the winter so that it's a more reasonable temperature to venture out at night and eat this amazing food. Easy on the hot sauce though. It can be a little spicy!
Stand in line for at least 20 minutes for a huge plate of food. ?The sauces are great. Ask for extra white sauce and don't try to figure out what's in it. ?Way more calories than you want to know!!
This is not my favorite, but if i'm really hungry, need something fast, and only have $6 id much rather eat food from here than at some other fast food chain. At least the food is prepared by nice people. The portions are also really big for $6, every time i buy food from here it lasts me 2 meals
so after all my friends raved about it, i tried the halal guys. honestly, i don't see what the fuss is all about. i've had it 3 times so far, and i'm not impressed. sure, it's good, but it's not worth trekking out to the city from queens just to pick some up, as some of my friends do. the meat isn't particularly seasoned well.
nothing more to say. just one word "DELICIOUS." the chicken is so tender, and the fried rice and fresh veges are a perfect match. the white, bbq, and hot sauce is a must. SOSO GOOOOD. even while Im writing this review, i just wanna go there and grab a bite! i've had many halal around flushing, manhattan, bayside.. but nothing can be compared to this thumbs up, the best halal in city. no wonder everyone lines up here like crazy even in like rainy and awful NY weather. THE BEST HALAL IN NYC. PERIOD.
I love this place! They give you A LOT of food, so much that one might be enough for two people! The chicken is so delicious, as is the flatbread. What I love most, though, is the hot sauce! It's very spicy, so a tiny bit goes a long way in spicing up your chicken and rice. The location is super convenient as well whether you're getting a quick lunch or a late night meal. This is a food cart, so there isn't any formal seating, but there are ledges of nearby buildings to sit on.
Sauce is super spicy, cousin drags to me to the long lines. ACROSS THE STREET is the same damn thing, yet retarts thinks its ok to stand on that LONG line. No further complaints.
Ohhhh yeahhhh! I loveeeee me some late night halal, with extra white sauce. And by extra, I mean, white sauce overflowing out of the tin. Yes, it's THAT good. The white sauce is the holy grail of all sauces and there's no such thing as too much of it. But the red sauce? I eat it in tiny little drops with my precious halal. Any more than that and it will not only ruin the meal, but your GI tract as well. Just don't be fooled by the wannabes nearby, even if they have long lines. The fakers sport the same yellow and red colors. Carefully look for the original to enjoy the best $6 dollar meal in the city!
Great late night destination grub with a group of friends. ?Watch out for that red sauce though, that stuff will cook your insides and burn your nostrils.
After eating 53rd and 6th for a few years now, I still do not know what all the hype is all about. Their chicken is bland and there should be no reason why you have to drench your food with the white sauce for it to be "delicious". I would choose Sammy's Halal over 53rd & 6th any day. Sammy's originates from Queens but they recently opened up a new cart on W 4th & 6th Ave. Check that out if you haven't already.
Very simple words: THE BEST HALAL STAND IN NEW YORK!!! Only $6.00 with a huge platter! Enough said! Don't let the line turn you away! The line moves very quickly and you will get the best Halal food ever!!! This a a must-stop if you are from outside New York City! I usually get the rice platter here - Combo with rice. Add in the white sauce and a teeny bit of hot sauce! Your taste buds will be jumping! The food tastes better at night! You're missing out if you haven't tried yet!
WARNING: THE HOT SAUCE IS POTENT AND DANGEROUS! DO NOT EAT IT!!! I had one bite of it with my food and it sent a instant punch and shock to my stomach. My stomach was cramping, I was cold sweating, and my body was going into shock. There was no water and restrooms anywhere.... It got so bad that I was one step away from asking my friends to call 911. If it had not been for Starbucks and the nearby hotel extending some help, I would have been in more dire circumstances....
What can I say? This is the best $6 you'll ever spend. Best end-of-night meal. There's usually pretty long lines, but it goes by quickly. Absolutely delicious!
Mad good halal
Best Halal food in the world. I don't think I could ever say that for any other place but these guys are the best. The food is soo juicy and delicious and their sauces are amazing, ?just adds to the flavor. You can NEVER go wrong with the Halal Guys. MUST go if ur around the area!
Took me long enough... You've never experienced New York until you've eaten at The Halal Guys. The first time I've had a hot delicious plate of what we fondly call "Chicken and Rice", I remember ?the fireworks and glittery butterflies that flew around me. Pure happiness. Then I graduated to the Combo platter with no salad. This is now my drug of choice. They now sell their crack white sauce for $7 (I think) per bottle- TOTALLY WORTH IT. ? I like the combo because the greasy-ness of the lamb/beef go well with the chicken. I drown everything in white sauce and put exactly 6 drops of their HOTT HOTT sauce, 7 if I'm feeling frisky. Also, the best hangover meal comes from being smart enough to buy a second platter for the next morning and adding a fried runny egg on top. You'll thank me later.
They've gone dramatically downhill over the past 8 or so years. Before it's delivered to the cart, the meat is pre-chopped very finely to a consistency something like a nubbly dog food. Onions, peppers and the other niceties that made this place a legend are no longer regularly on the menu. In fact, you can't really make requests at all anymore. They old yellow shirts are now distinguished only by the size of their platter at not at all the quality.
Rating this place 4.5 stars because I'm so jealous we don't have this in California ... However, a little bird told me that this might change in the nearby future! Oh, yes! Approached "The Halal Guys" which lacked a line and people, this caused some hesitation because hell isn't this place supposed to be amazing based on the reviews? Plus the sign says, "We Are Different" and I was aware that there are copycat Halal Guys carts and wasnt so sure. Just check the address and you'll be fine, cause this is the REAL DEAL. My family of four (including me) were hungry from our travels and decided to get two chicken and one lamb over rice bowls. At $6 each it was a steal andthey gave us tons of Garlic White Sauce and hot sauce for our meals. Omg, yaaas! The chicken is tender, flavorful, chopped finely so it's easy to eat, comes with pieces of lettuce, yummy rice and pieces of pita. Some rules to abide by: DO drench your bowl with white sauce, PROCEED WITH CAUTION with the hot sauce. It tastes awesome and has a delayed release of heat which packs a punch. I'm not kidding with this sauce, just dipping your fork into the sauce and eating it will set your taste buds on fire. Our eyes were definitely bigger than our stomaches as the three bowls were way too much for four people, we could've easily shared 2. I would say one bowl feeds two very hungry people, or three people. Amazing food, everything they serve you is made and assembled right in front of you, the portions are outrageously generous and the guys working this cart- you are a blessing and the price is so decent in turn for quality and is far superior versus that crappy hot dog or 1989 stale pretzel off the cart across the street.
It's sooooo good and soooo cheap. There's always a long line, but it usually moves pretty fast. It's nice to just stop by when you're craving food late at night.
Best street food really for the money. Portion sizes are humungous. I love the lamb over rice!
When I saw the number of reviews, I had to try. I thought it was just the hype... I was wrong. It was great. Price is very reasonable too. I ended up going back to eat again on the same day
2 words - YOGURT SAUCE. Don't know the proper name but its soooo good. I always get the falafel over rice and although the falafel itself isn't the best, they give you a lot and the rice and pita and everything else is yummy. And its only $6 dollars which is a okay with me.
What can I say about Halal Guys that has not already been said. This staple of NYC not only tastes amazing it's only $6!! I typically venture out here late nights after hitting the bar scene. I have recently went during the day for lunch when working in the city. There are a lot of imitation carts around the area so be weary when picking the cart. I went with the chicken over rice platter which comes with a "salad" (basically just lettuce), but no need to worry about that becasuse the chicken and rice is all you need to fullfill all of your hunger needs for the day. The white sauce is amazing and for some heat add a splash of the red to balance things out. Everything is cooked to perfections and never dissapoints. I make it a point to stop by here whenever I am in the area and always reccomend this place to friends and family!
I was in New York for a day trip so I made sure to ask my foodie friends on Facebook ?the best places to eat. This is what they suggested. The line was pretty long for a food truck but it went by pretty quick. For a few dollars you get A LOT of food, I got chicken over rice and that's 3 meals for me right there! It was so delicious! Don't underestimate their hot sauce, it's pretty hot and I love spicy food. I highly recommend this place. Can't wait to go back to NY just to have this again!
Best post drinking/partying food. Always tastes great when I am drunk. The magic is in the sauce - if you can get the right combination of the white and the uber-hot sauce - it'll taste awesome. Tricky to get it right though.
we bought 4 plates while we were there , although we only have 2 person. the wait is super long, but worth it. there are a bunch of fake halal guys close by, but they named themselves halal guys express, etc. don't get fooled by the name. i would love to go there again if i visit NYC.
be careful with the spicy sauce, Its REALLY spicy. since they have a huge crowd, they make chicken in bulk and keep it, the chicken they make is not crispy, it looks like its pulled chicken. The other halal carts across NYC have a good crispy tasting chicken. anyways, its a good tasting halal food.
Best $6 you'll spend for food, especially in the city. Get the combo with extra white sauce. Beware of the hot sauce!!!
BEST HALAL BEST PRICE These guys really give you a mountain of excellent tasting middle eastern food. I always feel great after eating this stuff. Warning: The hot sauce can be intense so use sparingly.
This place is the place to go after a long night of drinking. They have now expanded their business so you don't have to worry about the long lines as much anymore!
When it comes to halal, The Halal Guys is definitely at the top of the bunch. The halal costs a dollar more than usual, but that's because they try to pack as much as possible into your little takeout container. It's truly amazing how much food fits into that box! But mind you, it's not very good for the health-conscious ones. I always get the falafel over rice. While the falafel has a tendency to be a little bit too crunchy, I really enjoy how well the rice is flavored and how they always add fresh lettuce and chopped tomatoes to the plate.
Perfect drunk food to wrap up a night. Line is long because they're so popular, but it moves quick. The menu is very simple and the portions are big. But let me add...be careful with their hot sauce!!! That shit BURNS son!!
Theeeeee best Halal food on the east coast! We make sure we stop here anytime we're near, anytime we wnt halal, halal guys are the halal gods. and the best part is its cheap. One plate is about $8 and it can last at least 2 meals. You will never go wrong there. Dont let the long line fool you either. If you can take chipotle's long lines then you're fine, Halal guys are 10x faster. And way more worth it.
I don't always want halal but when I do it's 53rd & 6th halal guys! The line is long but worth it! Very inexpensive also and is a must try just ask for the mix!
Better than advertized. ?Hot, Fast and Great Food. ?We were there about 130am, there was a half-a-block line that they moved through in 5-10 minutes. ?no nonsense, no frills just ?excellent tasting foods. ?The sauce station on the end of the cart allow for some customization of fllavors and spiciness. ?If I was a local, I'd be here 2-3 times a week.
I've heard a lot of hype about this place. ?I wasn't very impressed. The food was cheap and there was ALOT of it, but I didn't actually enjoy the white sauce or food. ?I am certain it would have tasted phenomenally better after a drunken night out.
Delicious food and what a bargain! The portions are huge. The white sauce, tahini sauce, is divine. Can't miss the Halal Guys, just follow the long line that winds around the block.
When I went to NYC, one of my MUST Stops was this food cart. ?Why? Well because I have been in Austin and NY, where they have tried to match these guys. ?How can you compare without visiting the original? I must say we did stop by here early late night, so we did not get to see all of the craziness that I'm sure swarms this place. ?It was a little before midnight so people were dressed up, so much ratchetness you wouldn't believe. ?But there there are those families just want some good food. I really could not tell if there was a difference but I ended up at the on at actual 6 ave and 53rd, not sure if the other vendors were the same brand just at near by locations, but since I was here what's another few minutes of waiting? So the line even at 12 am was already long. ?But these guys have it down. ?You order, you pay with cash and then you grab your plate and move on. ?Conveyor belt success. ? My gf had the chicken over rice and I had the lamb over rice. ?It's a HUGE serving and comes in a metal to go container. ?Perfect for those few bites and save the rest for tomorrow morning. ? Our only mistake was trying their SUPER SPICY SAUCE. ?WHY?!?! I saw the white sauce, which I knew I liked, I saw another hot sauce bottle, but the guy before me grabbed their blazing sauce and covered his plate with it. ?Being the MAN that I thought I was, I used the same bottle and squirted it over our plates. ? My gf bit into the hot sauce and was like no more! I was determined so I ate up all of the contents covered by the sauce on both plates fast. ?By the time it hit my taste spuds and my brain could react, I was literally in tears! Once the heat had subsided I was able to enjoy both dishes, but at that point I was done. ?We packed up the rest and saved it for the next morning. I must say reheated WITHOUT the hot sauce, it was still 5 stars!
This place qualifies as NYC dining institution. It's got 3 stands right in the 6th Ave & W 53rd St area. The chicken kebabs at $4 are real tasty and an absolute deal for the price. Same goes with the $6 chicken and rice trays. Pro tip, grab a plate and bring it over to Central Park. Makes for a great outdoor meal. =)
I have never seen a line, a long line that kept on getting bigger. I had to take a second look , seeing this was for street food. Hmm, ?all this for a Falafal or Gyro? What is this madness that has taken up both corners and across the street with lines that seemed to be never ending. A Gyro? Really , NYC has been handcuffed by a bunch of street vendors , dishing out pounds of meat? Cars parking illeagally with hazards flashing, people jumping out to get into a line for "Street Meat" as my sister would say. Ok I'll bite, ?lets see what the hype is all about. Fellow yelper and friend Jason K. kept on saying these guys are " BANGIN ! " ?as we were pulling up. ? As I was standing in line , that was moving at a good fluid pace I might add. I was looking over the options. ?I had decided on the Falafal with half chicken and half lamb combinaton over rice, with pieces of pita all around. ?Within 2 minutes I was handed a dish that had some pretty good weight to it. As I am saying "Are you kidding me?" the attendant said ?" $6.00 dollars please" . No this is not a miss type, $6.00 dollars for a dish of food that could be shared with 2 others. Well worth it, add some of the different sauces and now you have brought this dish to a whole different level. Watch out for that hot sauce, I love adding a little more kick, and I kinda doubted this. ?I WAS WAY OFF on that one, I swear I thought I was dying, ?take it in small drops. They also have their white sauce (Ranch like flavor) which helped defused their homemade hot sauce. Great flavors, nicely prepped , not a dry piece of lamb or chicken was to be had. Again for $6.00 you can't go wrong. The Halal Guys are on point with this, give it a try. ? Maybe he can send one of his carts to Philly !!
It's just a cart on the street, but it is the BEST cart on the street if you're talking halal food. We showed up at 1pm on a friday, there were about 40 people in line but the total wait time was about 15 minutes from the end of the line to having food in hand. CAUTION, their red sauce is VERY spicy. I put too much on and had to scrape if off later/ add way more ?white sauce. The flavor of the food beats any other Halal truck in town. The price, the food, and the speed of the food warrant a 5/5.
Best hands down food cart in all of New York!! $6 for so much food? Can't complain there and don't hold back on putting a ton of there white sauce! That's their signature secret!
Yeah these guys are legit. Food isn't sickly greasy and that red sauce will burn your face off. But I just can't get behind waiting in those lines man, christ. What is up with New York becoming Disney World it's ridiculous. Just give me my damn meat and rice and move on.
Thanks to guys like Ahmed the VP is the reason this business is successful. Never expected such professionalism out of a mobile vendor ever. No offense guys... Had a minor insignificant issue yesterday with my food, made a minor complaint and this guy stepped to the plate to clean the mess. No wonder these guys are well known. Thanks for the food and that white sauce that might as well be crack, addictive!!!
Not by any means a "must have in NY" , but a pretty solid lunch for 6 $ . Good shawarma for new york , but no match to any real shawarma for anyone who tasted mediterrian one.
Super bland and disappointing. The chicken looked under cooked and had a funny smell. These guys are super popular, but I don't understand why.
There are a lot of food trucks all around Manhattan. ?I was reading the reviews on these guys and was confused, aren't they all the same? No, they are not all the same. ?We ate at another truck just to be sure. I'm now adding this to my must-eat list at NYC. ?It's the best $6 spent. ?And I was lucky enough that the line didn't wrap around the corner like the reviews I was reading. ?I was the 15th person in line. Yay!
Must eat street food. Yellow rice, chicken and spicy sauce.... HEAVEN. Plus, there was no line! ?There are a few different locations- just look at what they are wearing to spot The Halal Guys.
can't give it 5 stars because its a food truck, but its an easy 4 stars. ?Greats place after the bars or clubs, open all night, the line gets crazy long but its sorta worth it and the lines moves pretty quick, also really cheap
Picture it, I've just moved to New York and my family are visiting, staying at the sterile, but lovely, NYC Hilton. ?They're hungry, I'm hungry, we're all fatigued, and nobody wants room service. ?Of course, I'm already thinking, oh god no, don't make me deal with midtown with my family, bickering over what to eat and ultimately choosing something terribly pedestrian like Olive Garden, and so we're outside and we see this cart with a line that is wrapping around the block. ? I remark, let us be New Yorkers, be local, and eat from a cart and this cart must be pretty good. ?I also noticed, many of the people in the line were obviously not tourists. ?Recent immigrants like me, maybe, but very few of those cud-chewing peripatetics that is the annoying tourist type. ?I was thinking, if locals eat this in such droves, it must be especially good. The line moved pretty quickly, the guys were positive, and the price eminently reasonable. ?We carted our sweet smelling (oh so good) food up to our rooms and in the deliciousness of fatigue, ate our way through some of the most indulging comfort food. ?The white sauce is truly lovely, creamy, fun, etc. ?The rice, perfectly cooked, the gyro so good, salty, tender, not stringy, tastes like it actually did come from an animal... The Halal guys are the end of all arguments about midtown cuisine and tourist traps. ?There are upscale places of incredible cost and legendary quality (Per Se) but many 50 dollar plate restaurants in the area cannot pony up food as purely coherent and pleasing as these cart guys. ?Ruth's Chris, which we ate at three days later, was much less fulfilling. We recently went to the MoMa to check out Magritte, and after a heady cultural experience like that, my companion and I, now much more seasoned New Yorkers these days, went straight to the Halal Guys. ?You're not going to enjoy super subtle flavor and challenging, adventurous "worldly" food, but you're going to get the perfect fast food at a price per value that is unparalleled.
Feels great in the moment, but terrible the next day...
Their hot sauce ALWAYS gives me the hiccups, but one of my best friends loves it. I eat spicy, hot, african/carribbean spice all the time, so not sure why I get that reaction. Anyway, I never thought there was anything that amazing about these guys that warranted the ridiculous lines they always have. I'm just glad we were all over them before they got hot. Doubt I would go back now.... Unless I time travel back to my early 20s and embark on another classic 4am food conquest...
delux
Is this the best Halal in town? Probably, yes. Is it any good? It's fantastic. The sauces are great. What if I don't want to get the sauce? The hell are you eating Halal for then? It's not any good w/o sauce. You should go get something else. How big are the portions? Decent-sized. More than enough for the average female. Usually enough for the average male. Is it worth the wait? Depends. The wait shouldn't take too long - usually 45min tops. Is it overrated? Probably. Who usually goes to eat there? College kids. Late night crowd. Tourists. Should you go there? If you're a tourist, student, or drunk yes. Everyone else, variables depend on waiting time, party size, and how health conscious you are.
The stand we went to was at Times Square. Jason got the chicken and I got the beef. I didn't know they put it in a hot dog bun but it so good! I've heard that sometimes these street vendors don't prepare thing up to code but we watched him cook our food so it was hot and fresh. I would definitely get some halal food again. The price was pretty reasonable as well. Since we struck up a conversation with our cook and he gave us advice on things to do, we gave him a tip. Basically, all the halal food stands sell the same things but what makes the difference is the one running it. Luckily we went to a good one.
Definitely one of the best street meat vendors in all of Manhattan! One of my old coworkers would trek half way across Manhattan to get this Halal. Of course, we would all make him get us some too - he would return with 10 - 15 trays of Halal. If you are in the area - wait on the line it is worth it! *-Happy Eating -*
As far as street meat goes, there is no better place - period
4.5 stars. ?Likely the best chicken and rice I've had in NYC, but it's not something I'd queue long for. ?Today, there were maybe 3 ppl in line ahead of us. ?Extra white sauce and red sauce is key. ?Nice guys serving it up.
This food truck is pretty good. It's cheap. It's a lot of food. Even in 10 degree weather there's a long line. The guys that take your order and serve the food are kind of rude. Dude didn't even look at me while I was talking just stared at and answered only to my boyfriend. I had the chicken plate. The chicken was kind of dry to be honest but slather that whole plate in that amazing white sauce and you're good to go. For six bucks and extreme hunger you can't go wrong.... But you could probably find better halal food somewhere else....
My spot to swing by and get rid of my tipsiness at 4AM after the club. ?If you don't like lines don't bother to come here but if you prefer to be sobered by the strength of their hot sauce THIS IS THE PLACE!. ?Food is great as well, the variety platter is my weapon of choice.
Warning! Some fake Halal people stole their main spot. What the heck. Those bastards.
My review is the 4715 review, what a number. The Halal Guys is a simple equation 1 + 1 = 2. Clean food, tasty (delecious), good portion, unbeatable price, awesome sauces, and friendly people. that what makes The Halal Guys, The Halal Guys.
Go nowhere else! ?I've tried every halal cart in midtown, and these guys are the best. The mix with salad and rice is awesome. Huge portions. Also, same guys are located on 53td and 7th, usu less of a line. The best $6 you can spend!
HUGE portions. ?One plate definitely serves two or more. ?I got the combo plate which was good. ?It is VERY greasy but spiced well, perfect when you are hungry and want something filling. ?Unfortunately, the spices does not do the breath well and does not do the intestines well the next day so BEWARE!
When they say the to be careful because the hot sauce is really hot. .. believe them!! I didn't and my face melted off into a glistening puddle on the sidewalk. Finally a hot sauce that's actually what it says it is. ?I had the lamb and rice and I sat on a stoop eating every mouth numbing bite. Delicious!!
Food was not the greatest but for $6 it was good and the portion is very big I couldn't even finish. The hot sauce is very hot so try little first. Service was super quick but the guys were rude. Like many reviews pointed out, you can find similar Halal foods all around the City.
Spectacular meat and pita. A larger size, and I always get combo over rice. Great drunk food.
They give you a lot of food. Otherwise it doesn't live up to the hype. I had the lamp over a rice for $6 even. It was spiced ground beef served over rice with a few pieces of pita and lettuce. The portions are large, and foolishly I ate all of mine. There are far better middle eastern options in this city. BZ Grill and Duzan in Queens to name two. Both at a similar price point. Halal guys is a reminder that the favorite activity of New Yorkers (or at least many of them) is to wait in long lines for food (see cronut, ramen). Fortunately, that is not all there is. There are plenty of wonderful places for those who do not their restaurant choices validated by long waits.
Whenever I head out to the city, this is my first stop! I don't care how far I have to walk or how long of a train ride it takes to get here, I must have my mixed over rice fix. I always get the lamb + chicken & rice combo and add a generous amount of white sauce on top. For $6 this is going to probably be the best bang for your buck meal in the city. They give you a very generous amount of food -- enough so that I will usually share with another person, so basically you're paying $3 for a legit meal in NYC. That is unheard of! I promise you will enjoy Halal Guys. This is the one place in NYC that exceeded the hype surrounding it, and is a must for anyone looking for a cheap, delicious meal. Also, be VERY careful with the red sauce. A little goes a long way. I did not realize this until it was too late and I regretted it immediately.
I love you guys but what's up with the super slow service lately c'mon I've been in line for ten minutes and I need to get back to the office.
This is the best food sand in NYC. It's a must have whenever visit. The waiting in line is worth it!
This is one of my favorite foods. This halal cart is the best amongst all halal carts in NYC and I've tried a bunch. There are two carts. One that comes out after 7pm across from the Hilton (the original location) and another cart that opens earlier on the other side of 53rd st. at 10am. Both carts taste the same to me. For some reason the line is longer for the cart across from the Hilton. I don't know why, but my only guess is that its because its the original location. There is more turnover there, so the food may be a smidge fresher. The most popular options here are the combo (chicken and lamb over rice) and the chicken over rice. Both are $6 and include a small side salad. I've tried the combo, which is good, but i prefer the chicken over rice. The flavor of the rice is awesome. The portions are large and are enough to feed two. Drench it with white sauce and drizzle it with hot sauce. Yum, so tasty!
The only place where Halal food actually tastes like ... Gasp ... Food! ?You know it's good when cops and taxi drivers pull up. ?If you're from out of town make it a point to go here for a legit NYC experience.
When I'm really hungry, this is the place to go for a big, inexpensive meal, though I'll have to remember to allow for the time to stand in line. I always get the combo over rice. These guys have quite the system; they've adapted pretty well to their station in life as the go-to food cart. The biggest hangup I've had is when I once got there at shift change. That meant an extra wait while they tended to business. Even that was kind of interesting, watching how one guy has to sweep up all the spilled food from the previous shift! My only complaint about the food is that they give you 2 tubs of white sauce for the platter, when you really need 3 or 4. When I've asked for 3, the guy taking my order says yeah and then when I get my food out of the bag (back at the hotel or whatever), there's only 2. :-(
Honestly, let's just call a spade a spade and come to the conclusion that this is drunk people food. Its greasy, its fatty, and its smelly. Its the best sort of food for when you get the late night munchies after having fun with your friends, but I really did not care for it at all. Firstly, there's always a line, so there's that. The meat is all congealed and there is a rather horrid odor coming from the area. You can taste the fat and its pretty unappetizing. The "White Sauce" tastes suspiciously like ranch and mayo. The rice looks old, and the vegetables were distressingly wilted. The pita bread was whatever. Honestly, I'm not understanding the halal cart hype. Call me a food snob, but I feel like there are so many halal and middle-eastern restaurants that charge you $2 more for similar food that is more fresh, more clean, more spiced and more satisfying. ?I don't know if I caught them at a wrong time, but the food was not good. 2/5 (It's cheap, being its only saving grace.)
A combo meat+rice plate with enough to feed 2-3 people for only $6? Nothing can beat that. It's the perfect street meat to get when exploring NYC on foot! The white sauce is so good and if you have a high spice tolerance, get the red sauce (but you have to really like spicy foods to enjoy it!)
Why is there a line half way around the block? ?Because this is some of the best street food in NYC -- indeed, some of the best food in NYC in any format. ?The choices are simple -- chicken, lamb, or a combo. ?(I always choose the combo.) ?Whichever you select, you will have as much mouthwatering rice and meat as you can possibly eat -- all for just $5 or $6. ?Be sure to try both the white and the red sauces, but you might want to ask for a small container of the red sauce so that you can apply it in small doses (it burns like fire in anything but tiny quantities). THREE POINTERS: ?(1) The same guys have 3 or 4 carts within a block or two but the most popular -- and, I assume, the best -- is on the SW corner of 6th Ave & W 53rd. ?(2) They don't open for business until the evening. ?So whatever other cart may be in this location at lunch time is unrelated. ?(3) ?Just tell them "to go" if you won't be eating it there. This may seem obvious, but it isn't. ?You'll see half a dozen people who didn't make this request struggling to get their own lid on the container. ?(It's harder than it looks.) ?Plus, when you ask for it to-go, they give you a bag and sauces on the side.
Needed to urinate. Unbalanced. Head spinning. Waiting on line. Listening to random conversations about tampons, how halal here is so good, and drunk girls so happy about life. Ordered mixed over rice and squirted a load of white sauce over he food and gave it to gf to eat. :T Scarfed down the halal without even chewing. Drunk halal eating is the most amazing experience in my lifetime. Late night Chinese, Korean or pizza has nothing on it.
Its almost too good :)
Delicious gyro over rice for me! Been to new york 3 times and always looking forward to eat here. There are a couple location and similar truck so make sure u look at the logo to make sure.. well u also can be sure since they have a really long line..
Very good chicken and rice. Cheap and lots of food. The line was long the entire time we sat and ate. You know you are at the right food stand when you see the line. Very fast service, waited for less than 10 min for the food.
Let me start by saying I've eaten at a LOT of halal carts up and down 6th ave and around the city so I know what to expect. This is a HUGE TOURIST TRAP and the lack of elites on this page show it. This is my first time at this location and I accidentally went to the imposter cart across the street so decided to try both side by side. For $6 you get a LOT of food. They seriously pack their containers like a can of sardines. If quantity is all you care about, this is the place to go as they cannot be beat for cheapest food possible. However compared to other carts. - Their hot sauce is insanely hot - almost for the sake of being spicy. It doesn't add much flavor to the dish and you cant put much on or you'll just taste fire. Its like they made it too high for 90% of their clientele so they spend less money making it. - The white sauce tastes almost like watered down ranch dressing - seriously just try tasting it alone and you'll agree. Not great compared to the real stuff. - The pita tasted stale. Even though it looked like it had grill marks, it tasted like it came right out of a package that's been laying around for a few days. - The lamb and chicken were pretty good - the chicken was just OK. Both come VERY minced so the pieces are tiny. I guess its so they can just pile it into the containers. - I do like the fact that they give you two extra to-go containers of white sauce/hot sauce instead of saucing it there. This makes things go faster. - The line sucks, this place is so popular there will be a 15-20 minute wait to get food so if you're on a time crunch, this place will eat up your while lunch. Overall, I'd come here if you're just crazy hungry, since portion size cannot be beat but the food is completely average. But if you're looking for flavor, definitely try any other cart. I think these guys have just gotten too popular so corners have been cut and quality has gone down.
It was good I just dont like how they chop the meat so fine
This is a review for the cart on the northwest corner of 52nd and 6th, which is a truly marvelous example of the sublime delights one may chance upon in this cruel, waking life, and not the one on the southeast corner of 53rd and 6th, which is an unstatisfying joke. People frequently point out that the one at 53rd and 6th is the "original," but who cares? England is the original America - does that enter into your thinking when evaluating which of the many nations of this earth is supreme? No. To hell with England. Embrace substance over style. Go to 52nd and 6th, where the food is more delicious AND they don't make you apply your own sauce, like you're some kind of freaking sauce expert who knows the right portions to use. Even if you are a sauce expert, I cannot endorse 53rd over 52nd.
Six dollars for a massive amount of food that few can fully finish. During the cold days it's really nice to be able to get warm food and stand around while eating. They let you put your own sauce on in however much you want, which is a plus, so I tend to get the platter, eat a bit to satisfy my hunger, pour white sauce on half, eat that half, and then go back and repour so I don't get soggy halal.
Not sure why people line up for these guys?? I ordered the chicken over rice & it's just mediocre shredded chicken and a ton of brown rice with some dry pita bread, nothing even remotely special. My neighborhood Halal spot makes much more flavorful chicken over rice & I get veggies with it to boot. I wouldn't even consider going back to the Halal Guys unless it was 3am and I had no other options. And even then, I would probably save my $6.
Great eats.
Food is always amazing! It's open late, the plates are big enough for two if you want, and it's cheap! This should be considered an NYC destination! Make sure you visit! We love bringing people here when they are in town. Amazing food truck food :)
fill ur belly with the amazing chicken n lamb over rice combo... then hit the gym the next day!
Have to do the obligatory review of the Halal Guys. Everything you need to know you have prbly already heard but I'd love to throw in some tips. My go-to order which you will not be displeased with is: half chicken half lamb with rice and make sure to get the onions and peppers/veges they have there, adds a perfect amount of crunch! Pita of course and then for the sauce everyone is different, but I like to go with a little hot, good amount of bbq, and LOTS of white sauce. Absolutely delicious. I have walked six avenues in the pouring rain just to end my night with some chicken and rice. I have found myself here at 5 AM after a rave with nothing else on my mind but finishing off the night with some white sauce (not that kind tho). Location on 14th is just as good, don't make a schlep if you don't have to.
Yes, it's true. It's all about the white sauce. Do not be fooled by the cart'erior outside this is no ordinary street food. ?It came highly recommended by my brother and the comedian Jo Koy. So we had to stop by when visiting in May. When we first drove by we saw a never-ending line and my hunger grew impatient. As soon as we got out of the taxi my brother said "I'll be right back" and took off. My parents and I were so confused, but then he comes running back and says "Follow me!" I was getting a bit hangry at this point, but to my surprise there was ANOTHER CART with NO LINE! yummmmmm You get such a huge serving! Couldn't finish it all, but it already comes in a container you can close it up to save for later.
Lots of food for a great price! ?I wish they have this in the Bay Area...
Pretty good, and very large portions. I'm not sure it's worth the huge waits though.
Too greasy but with fair price, really tasty. The only real bad is the line to get your food but they do a great job speeding up things.if you walk two blocks south there's some in street chair and table to eat like a normal person. But part of the fun is to eat in the street like just another busy New Yorker
Food tastes great, line can be long but moves really quickly, had the mix over rice and lots of the white sauce, only paid $6.
After all these years of going to NYC, I finally tried Halal food. Everyone keeps telling me The Halal Guys are the best, buuuttttt I'm going to have to say that it was just alright and definitely overrated. For $6, you do get a lot of food. You can probably get two meals out of this. I went with the chicken and lamb with the white sauce. I don't know if it was the white sauce or the food being too greasy, but I was done after a few bites. My brother ate a few bites and didn't care for it either. Maybe this is a late night, after drinks kind of meal.
I used to think the idea of eating food from a cart was really unappetizing. However, the Halal Guys have proven me wrong. I usually get lamb over rice at food carts so I stuck to that when I went, but I am definitely going to go back at some point to get the chicken over rice. With the way people talk about this place, I set my expectations very high and the Halal Guys totally delivered! They were handing out free tote bags when I went to appreciate our business too. Amazing white sauce! I'd be careful with the hot sauce - my friends who can handle impossibly spicy dishes only get a little bit.
I can't even review this freaking place. Seriously this will be short and sweet because I don't want to think about how I cant get anything like this place is Southern California. I was on vacation and friend said to go her. I doubted her, but damn did she deliver some good advice. This place is the Terminator of taste buds. The Michael Meyers of munch. The Freddy Kruger of flavor. If your visiting NY and you don't come here....for shame. If you live in NYC and can go here......I envy you. ?CHEERS!!!!
Great food, great service! ?THere is a reason why this place has a line down the block...
Every time, I'm in NYC, I make at least one stop here, usually several. ?I've eaten at many of the popular restaurants in NYC, from the pizzerias to the higher end restaurants, and my fave meal of each trip is ?usually at the Halal guys. ?I've even smuggled some plates on the plane ride home. ?I'm definitely spoiled by all the great food options by living in LA, but there's something about the rice and chicken with the creamy white sauce and spicy red sauce (always get extra of both sauces) that is just so delicious and addicting. ?Unfortunately, I have yet to find anything comparable closer to home.
There's always a line but moves very quickly, great Halal food careful how much hot sauce you use!
They run a pretty good business out of 2 trucks off 6th ave. Though I do tend to prefer the other halal trucks (mainly because they don't have the big to-do about the serving process and are $1 cheaper) I have to admit they make some mean halal food. I especially like that they tend to be open after all the trucks have gone home. If you're looking for some great NYC halal food at 2am, these guys are definitely the ones to go.
The best cart in the city! Always a line but worth the wait. Its so good, there are imitators claiming they are the halal guys. And if you like hot sauce, the halal guys have the best and hottest hot sauce on the market.
I've had a lot of halal food from vendors and this is definitely the best spot with only 1 other vendor by 120 Broadway being any competition. So after finally finding this spot with only a few people in line, I got to taste the greatness that my nose was smelling earlier. I got a mix of chicken and lamb with everything on it, and they gave me some small containers with extra white sauce and hot sauce. Extra white sauce is an necessity. ? The chicken was good but it tastes much better with a good amount of white sauce. The lamb on the other hand just tastes good regardless. Unlike most other vendors, you also get pita bread here and you get a large portion of food. I shared some of mine and I still didn't finish it all in one sitting. This is definitely a great place to get lunch or some dinner since you get a lot of bang for your buck.
What else is there to say that hasn't already been said by the other 4500+ reviewers? In a city with tons of other similar food stands, this one is (supposedly) the best. (I haven't tried other halal food stands, but trust me, Halal Guys is amazing on its own merits.) Lamb and chicken and rice combo--delightful. Absolutely delicious. Generous portions of lamb and chicken (juicy and totally not dry) on a bed of hot rice. What's also great is that the amount of meat they give seems to be more than the amount of rice. As of this writing, it's $6, which is an awesome deal; I honestly wasn't able to finish it since they give so much food! The line was a tad long, but the food comes fast and thus the line isn't that much of a bother. Can't wait to come back to this place!
There's only been two times in my life that I ate a meal in near silence because it was so good. Halal Guys is one of them (the other was a pretty amazing burger...carnivore tendencies). My bf and I stopped off at 53rd and 6th for the combination with rice (chicken and gyro), and sat down to inhale the food. Or at least pretty darn close to inhaling food. Mygoodness. It was delicious. Piping hot, tender chicken and lamb gyro smothered in white and spicy red sauce atop marigold colored rice. That first bite and the following 10-15 minutes were absolute bliss. So. Good. And for $6? Amazing.
Great way to go when in a rush
Yes, these are the guys that will hook you up with the best Halal food in NYC.
It's a must at least once. Every time my CT friends are in town we end up there at 5 am. Watch the sauce though - they love to put on a lot and if you cant handle it, it's not as enjoyable. You can put on your own sauce. The line moves quickly or you can go across the street....no seating so take off your heels!
This could well be the best $6 for food you spend in your life! ? After staying around the block from the Halal Guys I noticed in the evening that there was always a lineup 20-30 people deep! ?I was wondering what all the commotion was all about! ?So I tried it one day for lunch! ?My plate was a chicken and gyro. ?It's quite interesting as it's hashed up chicken and gyro on an orange coloured rice with middle eastern spices and salad. ?I asked for a bit of white sauce and a bit of hot sauce also. ?I find the white sauce okay (creamy with mild garlic) and the hot sauce was very spicy! ?It's a massive plate and really enough for two people to share! ?The joy of this also is that it's not too salty! ? ? Walking by the cart for three nights I noticed there is a prep cart that just cooks more meat as it feeds 3 - 4 other carts. ?It could be the best food deal in Midtown west. ? ? On the saturday night there must have been 60 - 80 people in line! ? Seriously good stuff!
The best place ever to have street food in the whole NYC. They are the best in the world. The food is tasty, cheap and quickly made. The long queue says a lot about its demand and quality... Definitely worth trying sometime in your lifetime...
Ahh, makes me want to go and get one, This place is world famous and attracts a lot of tourists. Have been going to this place for last 10 years. My GoTo spot for halal Chicken and rice.
Worth the wait! Don't be fooled into going to one of the copy cats. ?Look for the bag that says "The Halal Guys". ?Get little or nice rice and extra salad otherwise it is way too much food. ?Hot sauce on the side.
I absolutely love this place. I come here at least once a month. ?Although I have to admit the chicken has a distinct smell/taste like peanuts even though there was nothing of the like in there. Because of that I usually order the lamb rice with pita. I even have leftovers for lunch the next day. ;) And like everyone says beware of the red sauce! There's also another cart about a block away with the same exact recipe and no line :D In short there is no reason not to try this amazing $6 dish.
NYC landmark. Can always count on them to be open, no matter the weather. I always stop here on my way from New Jersey to queens. I sometimes go out of my way after a night out. Always get the lamb and rice, white and hot sauce. User beware: the hot sauce is relentless - proceed with caution.
Like pretty much everyone else has said - huge portion, excellent flavor, very low price, and not that bad a wait even though the line looks huge when you arrive. They work fast, and it's totally worth it. Outstanding.
I work in the building they are located under. I have had my lunch here so many times. Food is amazing. Pros: Cheap. Fast. Its street food. The Chicken over Rice and Falafel over Rice are superb. They make it like you want it. Friendly people. The portions are huge. I have never been able to finish it by myself. Great value for money.
Fantastic food, quick service and great value! I was skeptical that a street side vendor could live up to the hype... But I was gladly proved wrong. Don't miss this spot...
I'm so glad I listened to my friend Kathleen when she told me to try the Halal Guys. At first I was a bit hesitant because I wasn't sure what halal was, but when you're in NYC, you have to try everything. The stand we went to was very busy. They had 3 or 4 guys cooking and a line that seemed to stretch on forever. But the line surprisingly went by fairly quickly- I might have been in it for less than 10 minutes. I ordered the lamb plate, and boy are the portions huge... The lamb was tender, fragrant, and very flavorful. Paired with the white sauce, it is to die for. I'm not sure if it was tzatziki or what, but it was phenomenal. For being $6, you definitely get your money's worth. They need to open up a food cart in San Diego, because I'm craving Halal guys desperately!!
Got lucky and made it here around 1:30AM with a short line on a Friday night. Even if the line was long, they have a quick service system. Didn't feel like sticking around to eat so I had ordered to go and mentioned "extra extra white sauce". As everyone is saying, basically any of the few dishes they have here is good with an excessive amount of white sauce. Red sauce is on another level so it's wise of them to give you a bottle cap amount. When I looked at my order for 6 I noticed they had given me 2 containers of white sauce( that is bigger than a bottle cap size) for each plate which was a perfect amount for me. Feel free to ask for more such and such's. But be prepared to get some attitude because they have a system going to keep the line moving fast and don't expect customers to lag them. Stop by if you're in town, $6 munchy fix.
Only thing to say is it is the best chicken-over-rice I had.
Finally tried this place. We got lucky and beat the line. Now I understand the long lines. Best food cart I've had. Portion and price a every good. Best food truck in NY!
Been coming here for over 10 years, and I'm guessing at least twice per month or more. Service is amazing, food is even better. I've even come out here with a friend in a blizzard a few years ago. Not even a foot and a half of snow could keep me away from getting Halal Food. The fact that they were willing to still open up in the midst of news telling people to stay inside at ALL COSTS speaks of their desire to continually bring people the best experience all the time, no matter the situation. Will always love em and come out consistently!!! Get the lamb over rice...pour that white sauce on, and if you can stomach it, get some hot sauce ... But beware, the hot sauce does have some kick to it (I'm almost immune to it after all these years). If you love the sauces you can purchase a bottle of the white/hot sauce as well.
So happy when they opened up a restaurant in East Village! So good
This place used to be amazing but having been a patron of this cart for many years, I've seen the decline in quality of both the food and service. One of the reasons this place has such a good reputation is because of the amazing white sauce (and it is amazing). They used to let you take as much as you wanted but now they are ridiculously stingy with it. If you take it to go, they will hand you two cups of white sauce and any request for extra will be rudely denied as if you just said the most stupid thing in the world. If you decide to get your own sauce on the side, they will watch you like you're a criminal and stop you if they decide you've taken enough. On more than one occasion I've seen customers be yelled at for taking too much sauce. This is kind of customer service is absolutely unacceptable. Without enough white sauce, the food is just simply dry and stale. The lines still pile up for this cart though, so I don't see them changing their attitude anytime soon. They've just simply become too big for their own good and seemingly don't have to care about good service any more because of their enormous reputation. I would be lying if I said I wouldn't come here again - I still get cravings from all the good times I've eaten here. But with the recent changes to the way the Halal Guys operate their business, what previously would have been a certain 5 stars from me gets a 2. P.S. Their new store near Union Square increased their prices ($7+ tax for large, $6+ tax for medium). I remember reading an article where they said they would never increase the price. Guess that's changed too.
Wow, this place is amazing. I got the mixed plate - half chicken, half lamb gyro meat, and it was incredible. The lamb is spiced in a super delicious way. It's cute - they ask for here or to go, the only difference being a lid. They move quickly, so don't be turned off by the line. My only regret is adding any hot sauce at all to my plate - it is other worldly spicy and my mouth was on fire after the first bite. Hot sauce and halal food usually isn't even a question for me, but I'd forego it altogether here. The meat does wonders on its own!
Trust me, it will take you longer to read this review than it took me to eat the food. It was so delicious I ate Allah of it. ?Seriously it's the best street food I have ever had anywhere in the world. ?If I were Muslim and was given the choice between 72 virgins or Halal Guys for dinner every night in heaven, I'd choose the later - no hesitation!!
You got to try this food. Very affordable. Dont worry about the line, it goes fast. Large servings. ?Put this treat on your tourist "Must" stops.....Make sure you go to "Halal Guys" not the imposters....
Went there based on a recommendation from a friend, and got the combo plate with the white sauce and some spicy sauce on top. ?It was absolutely delicious and all of the flavors blended perfectly together. ?When I went at 11am, there were a few customers waiting in line. ?When I walked back over there at 12:15, there was a line of about 50 people! ?Clearly, they have some great food, and 5300+ yelp reviews and a 4.5 star rating are well deserved!
Wow. NYC deal if there ever was one. $6 for a plate, $4 for a sandwich and the stuff rocks. Wait. Eat. Go back.
Honestly, these guys are like legalized drug dealers. It must be something in that white sauce. Come here at any time of the day and you'll see a line of people willing to wait like an hour just for a chicken and rice. And I'm one of them. I love when tourists walk past and look in awe about a line of people waiting for a street meat vendor. Try it once and you'll be hooked. I don't know what else to say that hasn't been said in almost 5500 4 1/2 star reviews. This place is that good.
so good i went twice in one day. ?then took four more home the next day.
Something about chicken and rice is so addictive. The awesome goodness brings me back day after day...even when I have to wait 30 minutes in line. Makes the anticipation of the wait that much greater and the food that much better. All I dream about is eating chicken and rice...it's so good. Note there are multiple locations so be sure to check the lines at the nearby carts.
As I work a lot of nights I'm always looking for a good fresh meal. I have been eating with the Halal guys since 1990's, everyone likes to believe that they discovered these guys but in my corner of the world I stake that claim, the food is always fresh and very very tasty. The portions are generous at a more then reasonable price. You may have to stand in line a little while for you to be served but it is time well spent as the food and friendly service more then makes up for the wait. The halal guys are now on Facebook and twitter for updates and locations. Good eating everybody.
Yes, I have to give it the 5 stars. It's absolutely delicious and tasty. Although it's not a sit-down-restaurant, this deserves its own merits and awards. Just look at the pictures and imagine what you'll be eating. TASTY. TASTY. YUMMY. I'm actually salivating right now as we speak. The process: 1. you wait in line (sometimes it's a long line depending on when you go) 2. when it's your turn, the guy will ask you which one you want; you either order the chicken plate (aka chicken and rice), lamb plate (lamb and rice), or the mixed plate with rice all for around $6. i usually get the mixed plate to double the goodness 3. then they'll ask you if it's to go or if you're going to eat it on the spot; if you get it to go, they wrap it up for you, give you napkins, and sauce, and utensils. if you eat it on the spot, you can just grab a seat somewhere in the nearby area and chow down -- this is what i do all the time 4. ask for extra white sauce and the spicy sauce TIP: WARNING: the spicy sauce is SUPER SUPER SUPER spicy. i only dip the tips of my fork in the sauce and it blows up my taste-buds and my nostril. YIKES. but it's super delicious. haha TIP: BRING CASH. And KNOW WHAT YOU WANT. TIP: For all of you travelers/tourists to and from NYC like I am, I always take an order of the mixed plate to go and it stays good on the plane! You have no idea how awesome it was to eat this bad boy when I got home to Southern California. I swear, it was a genius idea! TIP: You'll probably need to get extra napkins. It's kind of greasy!
Don't leave ny w/ out going here. ?The lamb is the way to go. ?The spicy sauce is WAAAY spicer then you would ever expect so test it first or it will ruin your food.
I have eaten at Halal Guys for years and have watched them expand from one cart to the many that they now have. Whether they are the best halal cart in NYC is a constant debate that I do not have the answer to yet. There are still many carts left that I want to try. But as far as Halal Guys go, I do consider them at least one of the best. The big selling point here is the value. You are getting a plateful, and I mean plateful, for $6. This is an unbelievable value anywhere, let alone NYC where a bottle of water will cost you $2 on a good day. I always get the mixed over rice with plenty of white sauce and hot sauce. Like many have already warned, the hot sauce is no joke; I would definitely try a couple of drops to sample first. The lamb is delicious, but on the saltier side, so the chicken and rice help balance it out. The pita is nice to have when the hot sauce becomes too spicy. There is great science to this meal! From a longtime fan, I still believe this cart is going strong and am excited to see how far their popularity extends.
I was skeptical at first. "You have to try this chicken and rice", a friend told me. They raved about it and finally I broke down. "OK, I'll try this chicken and rice, we can go as long as you stop talking about it", I said. Now I can't stop talking about it. Is it the best food you'll ever have? Probably not. Is there a better deal in NYC? If there is, I haven't found it yet. If you're skeptical, just go. It's worth the $6 risk of not liking it. I regret spending $12 on cheesecake at the Rockefeller Center because I could've bought one chicken and rice and one lamb and rice for the same price. I'll be back to Halal Guys. Many, many times.
Pros Cheap Fast Solid food Good portion Cons Hard to find a place to eat......
Good stuff. ?I would totally recommend it.
Large portion. Good late night food.
What hasn't already been said about The Halal Guys? Don't get fooled by the imitators. This place is a MUST HAVE in nyc. I go for the mixed plate with extra sauce. Small bits of flavor packed chicken and lamb over rice. Just get in line now.
The last time I had these guys was a year ago on new years at probably 1am and my memory of the food was AMAZING. (Mind you I did have a few drinks in me and was starving). There was definitely a wait and a line but we all ordered one and happy ate it. So fast forward a year and change later... A friend from out of town was visiting and made it her goal to eat at the original halal food truck. It was a COLD Monday night and fortunately there was no line. Like everyone says, $6 bucks for a whole lot of food? WHY NOT? :) Now this is where I feel a bit sad. Maybe they were having an off day or maybe it was because of the weather... the chicken and the lamb was pretty dry. As much as I love the white sauce with the food, even that didn't help the dryness of the meat. I think my favorite part of the food that day was dipping the pita into the sauce and eating that... It was delicious! Now I wish the rest of it could have been! :( I'll try them again someday and hope that my Monday visit was just an off day.
Fantastic gyro and really good ketchup
The long line and wait in the rain was definitely worth it. Food was really tasty. Large portions, enough for a second meal. Ordered the chicken sandwich with everything.
These guys don't need my 5-star review. They have plenty of those already. But they sure as hell deserve it. The chicken and rice is incredible. My only caveat: the hot sauce is NOT fucking around. Ridiculously white people, beware: only get this if you actually want something spicy.
Hands down best halal food in NYC! no other stands can compare. i come here late at night (after midnight) on the weekends once in awhile when i am in the city. i have to say there is always a line even at night! You have not tired halal food if you never went here.
My friend said that I HAD to try Halal food in NY, and so I had to try it from the original place that sold it! The food was delicious, and the white sauce was amazeballs. For $6, they give you a ridiculously large portion. $6 is ridiculously cheap in NY too. Highly recommend coming here if you want Halal food. So why the three stars? Well...as good as the food was, I actually threw everything up the night of a few hours after I ate it. I felt a little unwell a few hours after the food and I thought it would just digest. I woke up in the middle of the night and threw everything up. It might be because I'm from California or my family has a history of weak stomach, but regardless...I emptied my stomach. HOWEVER, with that said, IF you have an iron-cast stomach, I highly recommend it. I really wish it didn't make me throw up because it was delicious and every time I walk by a Halal food cart and smell it, it makes me feel a bit nauseous. :(
Cheap meats on rice. Really nothing much else. It's definitely over-hyped but it scratch such a big itch so well that I see why people love this stuff. Be careful on the hot sauce but I probably wouldn't have it any other way. Just remember to try out some of the other street carts in NY, they may be just as good (rarely).
I love food carts, but I hate most of the ones in the Bay Area and Portland is just too far away, so being the picky fuck that I am, it'd been awhile since I even attempted to try street food again. This place was one my radar before we even set foot on the plane, but every time I suggested we go wander down late night from the hotel to grab some food, my girl would naturally question the sanity in that? Twenty minute walk in the freezing cold to get some late night chicken and rice? WTF? Luckily for us (well, I mean me), we somehow wandered all through the city from Central Park back down to our hotel area and randomly saw this cart on the corner. Line wasn't too intimidating, so I was able to convince her to give it a shot, even though we had been snacking all day long. Menu is limited and most people were getting the chicken and rice or the mixed chicken and rice in front of us, so we followed suit and got the former for the both of us. Portions were massive, so we decided to play it safe and split one. It was more than enough. This meal really put my belly to the test. Heavy and carb-centric, but no complaints! Insanely delicious chicken and rice! Nicely grilled and just enough shredded lettuce to give the plate a little bit of contrast. Hard to put into words how everything works so perfectly together, but just take my word for it. Also, fair warning about their hot sauce. It is VERY spicy! Even my girl, who has overtaken me in the relationship as the boss spice master, had to take a breath and comment on how much heat it had. Good to mix it with the dollop of white sauce they give you as well. All the guys were ridiculously friendly as well! Was expecting quick, assembly line operation with no charisma, but these guys make you want to support their business! And why not? Might be the best food cart food I've ever had. Definitely in my top three!
Wow this place lives up to its hype! ?For $6 you get a big plate of chicken and rice. ?Don't forget to use the white yogurt sauce and red spicy sauce. Although I think I used too much of the red b/c my mouth was on fire afterwards. ?But so worth it! ?During my 5 day stay in NYC I ate it multiple times ;)
Fiery Anus
So I finally decided to try Halal Guys to see what the "hype" was about. It was not what I expected at all, it's not all that. There's just something about the chicken that freaks me out, it's completely shredded and doesn't even look like chicken. The rice is dry unless you drown everything in white sauce. Pita bread pieces were cold and seemingly stale. I got chicken over rice for $6 and it doesn't even come with soda or water! It was overall very disappointing and I will continue to stick with my buddies in front of Trader Joe's on Union Square who charge $5 for chicken over rice and comes with a soda.
The Halal Guys is a pretty awesome food cart. ?They're to food cart in New York as the Bacon Hot Dogs stand is in Los Angeles. ?It's well worth it even though you're freezing your butt off standing in line while it was snowing in the dead of Winter. ?However, the line moves fairly quickly. ? I got the chicken and rice bowl. ?It was full of flavor and dirt cheap in a city where everything is overpriced. ?The white sauce is amazing like seeing your ex with a down grade. ?The chicken wasn't dry and it was moist. ?I think it had to do with it being shredded versus it coming in big chunks. ? Anyway, the Halal Guys is a must stop in New York whenever I'm there. ?I'll definitely be down to wait in line, so Halal back, girl!
Really good chicken and rice. Super long line, but worth it. They have three sauces- the white is yummy and there is a red BBQ-type that is great too, but the third is lethal. My husband loves spicy food and that third sauce was even spicy for him (I teared up and snorted myself from it, lol!), which never happens. They serve the line quickly and are very business-like, so know what you want by the time it's your turn and have your cash ready.
I can see why there was a long line. The food is amazing and so cheap!!!!!! We got a bowl with chicken, lamb, rice, and pita bread. And even with the long line, it went by pretty fast. Don't forget the white sauce!!!! It was the best part!!!! Oh and barbecue sauce too!!!
Love this place. Nothing I could say but I love this place..
Best hallal I've had so far in the city. The wait is sometimes really long but they move fast considering how long the line can be....they're open late but I avoid coming here after midnight because all the drunks are out terrorizing the area. Great price and can't beat the taste.
These 'Guys' are great, and the food, fuggedaboudit. I always go for the lamb / chicken over rice with salad. White sauce? Yes, please...and, a little extra, thank you. A little hot sauce? Oh, yes, just a little, because a little is enough. Everything is so fresh, from the rice to the chicken to the lamb to the nice slabs of pita bread...and, the salad. The price is so right, and the portions. extremely generous. Never a disappointment, always a culinary street treat. Can't wait to indulge again (and again and again) to Halal Guys. I've got to branch out though...and try another one of their many delicious dishes.
So a local friend from New York highly recommended me to this place and he told me their stories, like from a small food truck to now more than one across the streets. It was actually amazing to see how long the line is even past midnight on a weekday, that tells something for sure. The portion was big and I like the barbecue sauce a lot. We just ordered the classic rice bowl with mixing meats. They are really tasty, however, I don't think I would go back to there just for having this. It was good to try once, but I could not imagine eating it every single day. The owners are passionate, loving what they are serving to people and I appreciate that a lot as you can sense it in the food. I believe some people will love it so much but I am still not there yet.
This is one of the best halal carts around. I never order the lamb, it's the same lamb that every cart gets. It comes in a solid block so there's nothing special about it. It's also processed lamb. I always get the chicken since their chicken is very simply prepared. It's not overly spiced or marinated like other carts. Their white sauce is mayo based since you see empty buckets of mayo next to the cart. Their salad is probably just cut up and never washed, but honestly I don't care. I eat here at least once a week, and never got sick for the past 8 years. Anyone rating this less than 4 stars, I can't really understand why.
so legit. just go get it, don't ask questions
cheap, delicious, feeds 2 people. ?hmm not sure about how clean it is, but def the most cleanest in the whole nyc- doesn't make my tummy go through a roller coaster. might have to line up sometimes tho... depending on the night.
One of the best chicken/gyro plates I've ever had. It's also convenient that the sauce is on the side so that when you get it to go, the container doesn't get soggy. You get a great amount of food for the right price. Depending on the time of day, the line can be a bit long, but it moves along well. It is so worth the wait. Definitely would go back over and over again.
There are no words. Only a sound. hnnnnnggggmmmmm Okay and also: The white sauce is to die for, and don't try to prove the size of your cajones with the hot sauce. It will burn them off.
These guys are okay. I like their rice and the quality of meat is good but overall everything just feels kinda MEH. Not worth standing in line for this when there are 50 other halal carts on the same block that are probably just as good.
Best $6 I spent in NYC. Food was great, large portions and the guy who served us had the best customer service ever! He was friendly and offered us extra sauce, peppers and even a place to sit and eat. ?We got the combo chicken and gyro. ? It came with rice, salad, pita bread and extra sauce. ? Definitely only needed one for both of us but for $6 we each got our own. ?Highly recommend everyone go there. You won't be disappointed or hungry for a long time after.
The. Best. $6. You'll. EVER. Spend - not much to say because you should already know about these guys, if not - get on a plane to NYC immediately. There is sometimes a line but it moves insanely fast! Definitely some amazing stuff, it's always a must stop for me when I'm in town.
Definitely one of the main attractions in NYC. If you want to get to know the city, you have to start with Halal guys. Large portion, great food, local flavor. That's the main reason for NYC's great reputation as the center of the world. Other Yelpers said it all!
From La, gawd, this stuff is like CRACK. ?I mean, my east coast friends sees In N Out like crack but that's how i feel about Halal food. hahaha ? Screw Shake Shack, Thumbs up on Halal hahaha
If you want to avoid the long line, visit this stand earlier in the day! Once the sun goes down, the line gets realllll crazy! The rice is chewy and they give you a generous amount, so in my opinion one plate is a perfect amount to share. The white sauce is really important because without it this dish is a bit dry. I wish that I had a little bit more salad in mine. The meat is tender and the pita bread is a nice addition. Pretty solid. I'm not sure if I will crave this place, but the next time I am in New York, I will be sure to grab a bowl!
Been waiting to try this and finally got to during my second visit to NYC. Definitely hit the spot. The line was about 10 people deep on a saturday night (7pm), but it went quickly. Got a mix with extra white sauce with grape soda. That red sauce is hot! I love spicy food and this hits you after a few bites.
Classic New York, available day or night. The line moves fast, and the portion is enough for two meals. Go easy on the red sauce, which is incredibly tasty but will burn your taste buds off. Go heavy on the white sauce, which is rich and refreshing. There's also a brown sauce, which I think is BBQ? That one's fine but not as memorable.
The lines can get long at the main cart on W 53rd and 6th ave especially on weekends. Their cart doesn't look very clean but what can you expect, it's cart food. They give you a lot of food for 6 bucks, the quality of food isn't great but it's good for eating something after coming out of a club. The hot sauce is very hot, the white sauce is pretty good.
I love their Chicken over rice. The world's best sauce is their white sauce. You can flood your bowl with white sauce Very fattening though :( Red Sauce is superrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr spicy don't avoid but use as a flavor enhancer use their red sauce packet which will be enough to give the spicy touch.
Went to this place after a friend had convinced me you'll never look at street food the same again. The lines are long but move quick as they have 4-5 guys and look like they are on a factory assemble line. The food has lots of flavor and for the price you get a lot of bang for your buck, they open late so you typically see a lot of happy drunk people. And taxi drivers. I've had such a craving for this place one that we drove from all the way from Brooklyn to get the chicken over rice.
Yes it is worth all the hype and long lines. No other halal stand in NY can compare to this place. Get extra white sauce and fair warning- the red sauce is EXTREMELY hot (spicy...), a few drops will do.
This cart used to be the bomb but over the years the quality has really gone down. Also other carts like 49th & 6th and Sammy's have added other flavors to theirs (spiced rice, green chutney, etc) but 53rd and 6th is kind of below average now. Last time my friends and I got 53rd we felt a little queasy afterward. One thing that 53rd n 6th does have going for them is the self serve sauces which really isn't that big of a deal lol! If you're new to chicken n rice this is a good place to start but if your tired of steamed chicken n lamb n plain white n hot sauce or just craving something with even more flavor def try some of the other carts! P.S. Always do hot, white, & bbq or white and green sauce!
i've only had this catered to my office but AMAZING even when catered so i can only imagine how much better it'd be fresh off the stove.
The combo plate (without salad) is amazing!
Excellent taste and good service just make sure to count your change when you get it back it may not be correct.
You haven't been to New York if you haven't had this!!! A must see/stop on your next pit stop, after party stop, after dinner stop...etc.!!
I have to get my fix every time I go to NYC. ? ? ? ? Extra on the white sauce please. ?Whatever that stuff is they must put crack or msg or something in there. ?Your tastes buds just go crazy. ?I'm drooling as I'm thinking about it. ?Try it. ?Delicious to day the least.
Combo over rice, pile on the white sauce! Careful with the hot sauce, it is HOT!
I don't understand the hype about this place. After hearing co-workers rave about it, I ventured down to the halal cart one night. I ordered the regular plate and thought it the food was terribly bland (I did put white and red sauces on it). Two stars just for value, as it is probably the most food I've gotten for $6 in NYC. Although I have to say the line moves quickly given how long it is.
This place is really popular but I don't think its the best halal in NYC. I do like how they really make the food fast and its really fast when i order my food. ?The guys aren't really as friendly. ?it was a long line but but i got to the front pretty quick. ?The halal was okay but I didn't really get why people rave over this place its just like any other halal cart. ?Maybe taste a bit better than others but thats about it. The price was good! I do recommend that you come and try this place for yourself. I will be coming back mainly because I didn't really get to enjoy my food because it was cold out and i ate my food out in the cold. i recommend if you get your food find a comfortable place to eat it so you can enjoy you food more Overall nice place to get some halal
I surprise myself every time I finish an entire platter in one sitting. The mixed gyro and chicken with rice is my favorite meal ever from a food cart. Drowning it in the amazing white sauce makes this the perfect six dollar meal on a chilly night. While the line is long, it goes fairly quickly. Did I risk missing a bus back to Jersey for this...yes I did.
Absolute Best. Great tasting food. Never disappointed. Usually a long line but that's part of the experience. ?Enjoy!!!
Maybe the theory that it's different after 8-9 p.m. is true, because I wasn't that impressed during my 7:30 p.m. visit. No line whatsoever and we got the combo plate. The food was good, but it just wasn't spectacular. I thought parts of the chicken were a little dry. The sauce is good, but it wasn't enough to compensate for the dish...
2nd visit to NYC and knew I had to get Halal once again, and sure enough it doesn't fail. The Halal guys are funny and friendly and the amount of food you get for the price is worth it IMO. I always get the chicken but got the mix this time and it was great!!! White sauce tops it off perfectly!!!! I can eat this everyday and will definitely eat this again next time I visit!
Halal food carts in NYC is as well known as ordering lunch specials at Chinese take-out places. ? This is the top 2 Halal carts in the entire city. I still favor the one in Queens not because it's my borough but because the freshness, presentation and taste are all top-notch. They do not open late which gives Halal Guys the clear advantage for late night munchies. With that being said the Halal Guys still offer the best bang for your buck without having to sacrifice taste or calories burned because they are close to the subway off the E train line. They are efficient as they have this down to a science by now. ?You can order from either corner on the same street where they are located. ? Same quality, same taste and the wait time can differ depending on the time you go. Still one of my go to Halal spots. Might even go tonight after my jog to replenish.
Really, really good food. Meat, rice, and that magical white sauce, along with that magical red/spicy sauce. Service is efficient. Lines can get long from tourists, so get there early. Usually they have two carts going, one across from each other. Watch out for impostor carts nearby. I believe it's cash only. Also, know what you want before you get to the front of the line, for your sake and for everyone else in line.
Combo with rice. ?Nothing else can be said that probably has not been written already.
We usually end up here after a Friday night. The line is long but moves fast. The guy taking your order is impatient and rude. The food is ok! It is still a good option when you crave for food after a night out.
It's okay. Food can be a bit dry. White sauce & hot sauce are delicious though!
lamb and chicken combo!!!!
This is the original and still the best. Cant go wrong here. The lines can get long, but isn't that bad for a 3 am craving. Don't get confused with the guys diagonally across from them, they usually open earlier and stay open a little later... but its not the same experience/taste.
Absolutely delicious. The falafel was a little dry that day but good lord that white sauce and that rice...
There is nothing special about this place. They heat up chicken and rice on a flattop grill. Sure, they serve lots of food late, but there are many other places that do the same. A lot of people seem to have succumbed to the herd mentality that makes a big deal about this place. Also, the hot sauce is very hot.
After trying out Halal bros in Austin, I was a bit intrigued with how the supposed original place was. On the way here, I couldn't help but notice how there's about 1 or 2 other Halal places on every corner but nobody seems to pay much attention to them. Finally hit the corner where Halal Guys was and goooolly there was a crazy line. Need I mention that it was RAINING too?? But that didn't seem to stop anyone from coming here. Sooo since we already walked this way, we might as well line up anyways! The food is cooked fresh right there. They have a great system going with one guy doing the cooking, the other guy taking orders and the other guy packing up the food. I got the lamb over rice, $6 for a HUGE platter of foood! We shared this between 3 people. There was sooo much rice and meat!! It also came with pita bread which was perfectly soft. The white sauce was LEGIT! It had a great flavor that perfectly complimented the meat and the rice. The rice had a great flavor. The chili sauce was gooood!!! It was some homemade chili sauce with true spice! Totally worth the wait. If you're coming here late at night, I'm sure it would even be 10x better! Comparing this to Halal Bros in Austin...it's NOT a comparison! The one there had wayy too much cumin on the rice and the white sauce was wayy too tangy and the chili sauce was basically like the Asian Chili Garlic sauce blah! Now I'll only be satisfied if I come here and get the real deal!
So, ?I doubt these guys NEED any more positive reviews but I'll give them one anyway. THEY ARE DELICIOUS. The combo plate with extra white sauce hits the spot! Three of us got thoroughly full eating one of those plates and it was a mere $7... a drop in the bucket when you consider how much other places cost in NYC. The lines get long but if you cross the street, their other truck tastes just the same. Be sure you have your cash in hand and know what you want because they move fast and don't like hemming and hawing. Thanks Halal Guys from being the cheapest and yet one of the most delicious things we ate in NY.
This place is amazing! ?I don't know why they're different from the other halal carts around town, but this one is simply the best. ?There's almost always a line, but it's worth the wait.
best street meat in the city
It tastes good and food portions are huge, almost too much for one person. They mass produce the meat on other carts to help accommodate the demand. I think for this reason the food is not that special, just okay. Maybe I've had it too often that I grew tired of how unhealthy it is, but it's really only their famous "white sauce" that makes the dish so tasty, especially after a night out drinking. There are other halal carts that have better meat and taste better in my opinion. But the famous halal guys on 53rd and 6th have the reputation- and their portion sizes are bigger. 4 stars
So thinking it has 5000 stunning reviews I was saving up for dinner that night. Really anxious to give it a try. I had been eating first class meals during my entire trip I knew this was going to be way better according to the reviews. Man I'm glad it was only 6 bucks. It was awful. No seasoning at all, completely bland. White sauce was basically ranch. Nothing special, actually worse than ranch. Pita was the only good part. I would rather have found a hole in the wall Indian place than eat here. Don't eat it, it's not worth the wait. Plus I was high and it STILL wasn't good. Wasted munchies.
Though its one of the famous chicken over rice places in New York, I feel over the years, the food quality has decreased though the price still remains the same.
These guys are a NY staple.. LOVE them! They're super efficient usually the long lines move at a reasonable pace. The food is always on point, what more do you need? DELISH!
I stayed at the hilton across the street from the cart and ate this every night that I was there. I have no regrets. I will say that I liked the lamb better than the chicken though.
I love, love, love, LOVE this place! In my opinion, this is one my favorite guilty pleasures in life. I always come to their Union Sq. location whenever my friends and I have Trivia night in the area. I always get their mixed platter and douse it with their white sauce and have the red sauce on the side for occasional dips. The guys that man this location and the original spots on 53rd are never rude and do a good job trying to keep the line flowing. The food is never disappointing and the price is very good. The portion you get with each platter is more than enough to fill up someone with the "munchies". White sauce is undoubtedly delicious and I don't want to find out what's in it because I don't want to ruin my opinion of it, haha. The red sauce is ridiculously spicy. I love spicy food but it's too spicy to have other than an occasional dip here and there. My friend once had a light layer of the red sauce on his whole platter and started tearing and could barely finish a quarter of it before submitting to the heat. Always look forward to being in the vicinity of one of their locations because I almost always spoil myself by getting a platter.
What can I say about The Halal Guys that hasn't already been said? The food is affordable and very delicious. My girlfriend and I ordered the lamb and the chicken. They give you so much tender chicken, it was wonderful- that creamy sauce melds everything together. The lamb was very good too, not being overwhelming in taste or odor. The rice wasn't too dry and the pita bread soaks up all the juices and the sauces. The lettuce they add is also cool and refreshing to contrast all the savory protein. I could probably eat here every other day if I were visiting New York City for an extended period of time. It's definitely the best $6 I ever spent in New York. I didn't try any of the hot sauce, but I heard that shit was insane. I'd love to eat here again, I wouldn't think twice about it.
What can I say that hasn't already been said? Mixed. No rice. Extra white sauce. Take it easy on the red sauce or there will be hell to pay.
Amazing gyro. I ordered the chicken and gyro with rice. I prefer the gyro more than the chicken. The meat is so tender and juicy. The hot sauce is perfect for the meat. It's a lot of food for $6! The place is close to the Central Park, so I enjoyed it there. I am glad to make an effort to find them based on the reviews. Would definitely recommend it.
Great except the line on Saturday nights takes forever.
Its good food but not sure what the fuss is about. I had better halal street meat in nyc
Read the reviews about this place and decided to try it while in NYC. ?Their food cart was outside my hotel. For $6.00 I got a huge portion of lamb and rice with white sauce. This meal was awesome!! ?I recommend anyone to try this food cart.
A trip to NYC would not be complete without trying out their rice platter. I love the gyro over rice, but not so much with the chicken. The lamb is absolutely delish. I can taste the spices, but they're not overwhelming. Gotta have a lot of the white sauce!
Hands down, the best halal cart in the five boroughs. Deliciously spiced charred lamb, fiery hot sauce, and an addictive white sauce on a chewy pita. You can't ask for anything more on a street cart gyro. It also goes a long way to explaining why there are lines at a food cart at 2:30am. Perhaps not a destination, but worth seeking out for late-night revelers north of Times Square.
I ordered the lamb over rice (only $6!) and was not disappointed! The line had about 15 people in front of me but luckily it goes by fast! Definitely recommend!
one of my favorite late night food spots in NYC. ?Just make sure not to add too much hot sauce.. I added too much last time and I paid for it. ?Its a must try if you're in town.
The longest line for the most amazing food. So worth the wait!! Now they are franchising?!! They are going to be HUGE!!
If you are Muslim and grew up on Halal food, or are visiting from a middle eastern country do not eat here. It's for tourists who haven't had much halal food. I've eaten here twice, both times with Muslim out of towners, who insisted on seeing what all the fuss was about and they later thought the food was awful. The meat isn't very fresh. There are plenty of other spots that serve halal.
Get the chicken, get the lamb, get both. It doesn't matter; they're all good. Everyone is correct in that one order feeds two. The orange rice goes very well with both meats, and the lettuce (salad is really an overstatement) gives a nice crunch every now and then (when you can find some). That said, the pita is so so, and could probably do with a bit of time getting toasted. Can't beat the price, quantity, or quality. I still don't understand how there is supposedly three carts at that corner but the line only forms at one.
This is the original and where it all started. The SW corner of the street is the original stand where all the tourists are used to seeing the long lines. Locals know better than to wait at that corner. This is the best hallal street vendor in NYC (now they've grown around the city and even brick and mortar store). The chicken sandwich with white sauce and hot sauce are the best. You can't beat the $4- especially late night. Don't settle for less imitators.
This place has the best Halal Chicken and Rice. The waiting in line def hypes you up more. If this is the first time going,always get two white sauce and one hot sauce... the ratio is great that way. For the price, it is really filling and good! However, if you have never tried Halal.... don't this is like gift from heaven. It is definitely good and delicious, but people hype it up too much. You get cravings of halal and all, but don't this its the best meal on earth lol
I've been going to this same cart for Halal food since I was a high school freshman. I haven't gotten halal food from anywhere else ever since. I always get the chicken and lamb combination over rice. I like mine drowned with white sauce, so I always take an extra container or two of it with me. Massive portions, low price, and lots and lots of nostalgia
Their chicken over rice was recommended to me by quite a few people when visiting NYC for the first time. We passed by a few times because of the hugeee line that was there but.. no matter how many times we passed by it, it still had a line so we just decided to wait. $6 for a large plate of chicken/gyro over rice. Good by itself but what made it for me was their hot sauce... I don't know what they put in it but that thing was SPICCYYY, and I can handle my spice! I poured about 3-4 of the little containers in and just ate to my heart's content (although my stomach did not appreciate it much). My boyfriend loved their ranch as well and drenched his plate in that. We got halal guys twice during our 3 day stay just because it was so good!
Chicken and Rice with white sauce and hot sauce...enough said.
The best halal food in town. Big portions and it is only $6!!!!!!! My first time trying halal food was at the halal guys and no other halal spots can top this. The line is rather really really really i mean really long! No joke! Ha! They open late, I believe till like 4am?
This is a must have when I'm in NY. I don't know what they put in that chicken and rice but it is AMAZING!! ?The line does tend to get super long but it's definitely worth the wait! ?The line usually goes pretty fast even if there's 50 people ahead of you. ?They have a good system going.
Doesnt get better
What more can you say that hasn't already been said? The Halal Guys offer one of the best meals in New York City for darn cheap! My favorite is the combo with the white sauce. ?Try it and you won't be sorry!!!
I have never liked a food truck more than this place and I cannot recommend this place enough to any of my friends that go to New York. Priced at $6, this quick meal off a food truck is a steal. The portion size, a plate of rice, pita bread, gyro and chicken big enough for two meals, is very, very generous. You can even ask for extra pita bread for free. The gyro itself is some of the best I've had, even compared to sit down places, I can't believe everyone can't deliver at this quality. Honestly, there is nothing you can get in the city of New York with better value. ?I'm from San Francisco where food trucks are the next big thing, but serving mediocre food at $10 is just disappointing compared to what Halal Guys has to offer. If you're the adventurous type and you love spicy food, ask for some of their hot sauce as it is THE hottest hot sauce I've ever had in my life.
Awesome cheap place to get food!! Combination (Lamb + Chicken) over rice!! And their falafel gyros are to die for! The white sauce is amazing but caution, their hot sauce is extremely spicy so I suggest it on the side. Good food, inexpensive and it will leave your tummy full, what isn't there to like?
Delicious~~! must try when you are around~!
This was ok and i don't think I would make the trip out to NYC to just eat this like most people. Maybe I just don't like food cooked like this. It was just heavy.
I loved this! I went on a rainy night after some drinks and the guys were still there! I usually don't eat lamb but I had to try that and the chicken. I loved this and wish I had more.
Yes, it is overrated but it is also AMAZING. For who knows what reason, somehow it just tastes better. Maybe it's because of the wait or large portions, it's probably the best that I've tried so far. Plus you add the white sauce on your own! And it's open till 4am!!
$6.00 bucks for enough food that can serve two! ?This has to be the best value in NYC. Served hot and fresh the only negatives (not big) is there will be a line and there is not designated seating. ?Just see the other patrons and you will be fine. If you want a cola or water you have to go to their other cart. Came here twice and order the Combo both times. ?The guys will give you some TO GO sauce but I suggest you keep this in the bag and use the available sauces located literally ON THE CART towards the backside. Now on to the sauces: One white sauce is available - very good! ?I suggest saucing up your whole portion w the white stuff. Red Sauce (Mild/Medium) heat - a Must if you cannot handle spicy. Red Sauce (Hot/Spicy) - LOCATED ABOVE all other sauces. ?Soooo good!! ?Suggest you add this along the edges so you can pace the spice. Be Warned this is a Lip Burner. The next morning you may even become familiar with the term Ring Of Fire... ?Don't worry because you will want to go back for more.
This place is Awesome Amazing chicken over rice, ACTUALLY ?best cicken over rice in the entire WORLD. They should open their branches all over nyc.
My friend who moved to NYC introduced me to this place and I go there when I visit the city. There are several similar food carts in the area, but only this one has long lines. When I visited it recently, they had two carts on each side of the avenue. It was dinner time and lots of people were sitting around eating rice bowls or walking away with yellow to-go bags. It was very spicy. I thought it was the sauce, but it was the meat. The rice was delicious. Thanks to Yelp, I learned there's a cart a little closer to home in Austin.
I normally don't like lamb. So we got lamb n chicken dish n I can say lamb is the best. Their spicy sauce is super spicy but the food itself is good that u don't need to add anything. :) i m getting it to go tomorrow. It's cheap n good. Will come back here if I ever come back to NYC.
Finally got to have lunch with these guys. Walked up & didn't have to wait in line (Memorial Day Weekend). Well worth the wait! ?I had the falafel over rice, ?with lettuce, tomatoes, red pepper & a few pieces of warm pita bread. Outstanding! $6 & I got myself a full course meal. This place is not to be missed.
Months later, I still remember the taste of the Halal guys. So cheap, yet so amazingly good. I had the white sauce with their gyro. I've never had better gyro in my life. This will definitely be a regular stop whenever I go to New York. A plus for being open super late, so if you ever get a late night urge to get a lot of food, go. It's great.
it can get a little dry so remember to get extra sauce!
It's as good as everyone says. The white sauce is indeed, crack. I had the combo (half chicken, half lamb over rice with salad and pita strips). 6 BUCKS! What a steal in NY! The amount can be shared between two people if you're decently hungry and if you're pretty hungry, it will definitely fill you up. The meat is very tender and the rice is fluffy. BEWARE: The red spicy sauce......I mean, I love spicy food and can take alot, but a spoonful of this is jumping off the deep end. Try putting a dab on the side and work your way into it, otherwise you'll ruin your plate of heaven.
Tasty and filling meal for $6. Didn't blow my mind or anything but will definitely go back for a quick fix.
Sooo delicious Halah food! Even though I'm Asian & don't eat Halah food that much but still fall in love with their food right at the first bite! There are many other food trucks trying to fool you with similar colors & designs so don't get the wrong one. The Halah Guys DON'T HAVE THE ELECTRICAL SIGNS on their truck & they do have the big sign of their truck name. Look for the RED & YELLO UMBRELLA with the yellow shirt guys & yellow plastic bags (yes, other trucks have yellow shirts & plastic bags to trick you too!). It's definitely worth to try! :)
Have been here plenty of times whenever I leave "The Ritz" club. There are always lines around the block at 4 a.m for this food truck, so you KNOW it's to die for. I always get the chicken with rice and it has never let me done. The portions are massive for the amount you pay, so it's a win/win!
Without a doubt one the my favorite street vendors. I have driven from NJ in the middle of the night after going out, just to eat here. I am strictly loyal to this cart as it is simply the BEST. For $6 you get a HUGE platter of food. I recommend the combo platter (chicken, lamb, rice, salad, pita). But what makes this special is around the side of the cart, perfectly lined up are bottles of their famous "white tasty sauce". Just squeeze it on all over until the platter is all white and the food cant been seen, give it alittle mix and then another application of sauce for good measure. Don;t forget to grab the hot sauce and only DRIP DROP because this stuff is HOT!
I read many good reviews about these guys and wanted to give it a try. Me and my mom ate chicken on the rice. It was a bit dry and not a special taste to speak out. We weren't impressed so loudly.
TIP: Today at 12:15PM, the line for the cart at 53rd and 6th was as long as is always is that time of weekday, 20+ minutes. The line for the exact same food at the Halal Guys cart one block over at 53rd and 7th? Five people long.
amazing! line is always long for a reason! & it moves quick! cant really ask for better prices!
One of the best late night foodstands in any city. It is a must stop for anyone traveling near the area. The mixed plate is to die for, especially on a hungry late night stomach. Make sure to put lots of the white sauce on your plate, but watch out for the red sauce as it can get pretty spicy. The best part of the place is that is only $6 and you will get very full from one plate!
Overrated --?and in comparison to other halal carts in the city, it falls short. Had half chicken, half lamb on rice. Food tasted bland and dry. The white and red sauce helped make it a bit more flavorful, but the white sauce honestly doesn't taste that good. The reviewer who mentioned it was like watered-down ranch may have been onto something.
Very good food for the price. The line moves fast as well. I recommend the combo plate.
You will know it by the long line that awaits the majesty of The Halal Guys. They open late, get the chicken and rice with lots of white sauce and a few dabs of red sauce and you are good to go. ?This is the perfect late-night food because it's really filling and you get a lot of it. ?We went there aftering doing MOMA on the Friday free night and it was the perfect way to eat out. ?There's a lot of food and I had plenty left over for the next day. ?Make sure to get plenty of white sauce, because it is so good. ?This is a food truck...so seating is where you can find it.
This is a must yelp spot. Totally have to say best drunk food to eat after 3am and your feeling woozy and have the munchies! I came here last night from Lavos nightclub was really overwhelmed with the line. Offered the guy $10 extra (I know I'm a horrible person I cut 30 or more ppl in line but,heh I was drunk and my heels where killin me)he then hit on me and took the $10 extra. I ordered half chicken and half lamb rice plate. Loved the pita bread on the side. Thought it was cool that now you can put your own white and hot sauce on the side. That's pretty cool. Very tasty looking and not dried up at all. Digged in to say when your drunk anything is awesome! But, yeah was very yummy but I kept having to put more white sauce to ad more flavor. The rice was blah then again I'm not a rice lover either. If there's no white sauce there's not really any flavor so a must hook up the white sauce for those of you wondering. Hot sauce is very hot so a little is a lot! After 10 forks you begin to get filled up and you will feel a lot sober. But,therefore the leftovers will kind of disgust you after once it gets cold. Also, I realized when I had halal guys the next day from the fridge I would end up getting bad tummy aches.. ?I DONT RECOMMEND EATING LEFTOVERS! Long story short, best 3am hangover food!
its great price in the huge amount(espeically in NYC!) but it actually taste the same just like other halal food not really stunning
Best chicken and rice in the city. Don't be intimidated by the line, it moves fast. They give you two containers of hot sauce and white sauce. One of each is plenty. Be careful with the hot sauce it's very hot.
OMG, incredible. ? It's rare that a place so hyped up can meet expectation but I remember standing in line for 20 min, getting my food and next thing I know the food is gone in my stomach. ? I completely inhaled this and will come back to this place each time I go to NYC.
I have heard a lot of talk regarding this food cart so I took a chance. Since the line wasn't too long, for $6 I got the gyro with rice. Now I was expecting an actual gyro, but got a lot of rice, with gyro seasoned lamb, two small pieces of very good pita,mystery white sauce and some red sauce. I would go back to try the chicken but overall I wasn't in love with it. If I do go back and the line is long, I would skip it for the 100s of other options in Manhattan.
Solid street halal without the unnecessary oil. ?The choices are simple lamb, chicken or both over rice. ?You could get your meal drenched in the mayonnaise based "white sauce", bbq or hot sauce. ?(***caution: be careful with the hot sauce. ?Use it sparingly.) There is always a long line but it moves pretty fast. ?Since you are going to be in the queue for a little while, the expectation is that you know what you want and that you will have your money ready.
BEST 6 BUCKS I'VE EVER SPENT!!! I initially feared that the Halal Guys would be overrated but I was proven wrong--IT WAS AMAZING. The meat combination plate we ordered had bold flavors and various textures from the meat rice lettuce and cheese, which were made even better with excellent red and white sauces. Some say it's greasy but it really wasn't in my opinion. The portions were a plenty and enough for you to save for another meal... so win win! Be sure to go to the correct stand. There's 3 Halal stands in that same corner but only 2 of them were the real Halal Guys. It's pretty much the ones with the longest lines. Don't worry about the line--it moves really quick! Oh yeah--cash only! Really wish we had this in CA.
Meh... I've had better. What you need to know: 1) The line is no bother, it moves crazy fast. 2) The guys talk to you like they are the soup nazi, he cut me off mid-order. 3) Skip the rice, ZERO flavor. You will want to save room for the good stuff (the meats). 4) Note, this spicy red sauce they all speak of... well good luck deciphering which one is the hot sauce. There are three red bottles at the end of the cart, none labeled, all something different.... and lord knows the soup naxzi's have no time to tell you whats what! I ended up with some sweet red sauce. 5) I felt like crap afterwards, its all terrible for you.... I don't mind feeling shitty after delicousness... but this SO is not classified as delicousness. XO
amazing. a must try.
Visited a friend who just moved to the city to study, and had the option of trying out Halal Guys or Shake Shack: I chose this, of course (Shake Shack, I'll give you a try another day!) and did not regret it one bit. There was already a line when we got there, but it moved pretty quickly. I was surprised at the huge portion you get with just $6 - the food was delicious (I got the half gyro, half chicken, because I like having the best of both worlds... or something like that anyway), and just a warning that the hot sauce is actually really hot, so add a few drops first then feel free to add more to taste.
Close to Time Square, next to the Charles Schwab building. There are a few imitation trucks nearby with the same concept, using the same colors and menus so don't get fooled. ?The real Hamal trucks have signs and there's always, always a long line. ?But don't let the lines scare you because it goes by super fast. There's about 4 items or so to choose from with chicken, lamb or mix that ranges from $4 to $6. Cash only. Definite must try.
Chicken and rice!!!! With white sauce and hot sauce, of course. ?I love the Halal Guys though I have to be in the right mood for this food. ?I have eaten this meal sitting on the steps nearby many many times. ?It is not the best place to visit when its raining, but I've done that too. ?There is usually a line, but I don't mind waiting.
The line is long but the food is good. Don't forget the white and red sauces behind the cart. It contains all the flavors. The first time I went to this place, I only had the chicken and rice without the sauces. I would go back to this place!
Not like this place needs another review but 5s are hard to come by so I had to. ?I've had the chicken alone as well as mixed combo - topped with both sauces - it's all delicious! ?The food is good for all times of day, whether for lunch or a late night drunken snack. ?They've been very consistent over the years so I'd expect their new store front to be equally good. The line usually moves along quickly, but is sometimes stalled by folks ordering a ton to go. A must have!
The mixed rice is the thing! Somehow, it tastes different than any other version of it. And I believe, it is now one of the New York things to do. If you are in the area, you gotta have Halal Guys!
very impressive for a stand
I've been to this place countless times, sometimes after a night of clubbing/bars sometimes with friends because we were hungry. Regardless, of the occasion, the food is always good! The place is pretty easy to spot, directly across from a Hilton and they're usually people already in line. Lines can be a little longer on the weekends, but ultimately worth the wait. If its your first time here the chicken platter is the way to go, but if you like variety go ahead and grab the combo platter which is chicken and lamb over rice, and you get a salad on the side with some pita bread (so good)! Price used to $5 but now its $6, still worth it! After you get your meal, you must engulf you platter with their secret white sauce which make the meal what it is! And if you like spicy use some of their hot sauce, but fair warning the hot sauce is EXTREMELY HOT! Hands down the best halal food I've ever had in my life!
they dont need yelp. they re fantastic.
AMAZING!!! Great taste!! Proration is MORE than enough!! CLEAN food!!! Very CHEAP!! My favorite is chicken on rice and I put loads of white sauce on it! Caution: hot sauce is HOT no joke!! I eat there twice a week. I'd eat more but I live in hobo and not in Manhattan.
Very good and delicious, prob 2000 calories , it's okay to stand around for 30 min while chatting with friends occasionally but I wouldn't do that often. They don't overcharge either.
Not bad for $6 (combo of chicken and lamb over rice). However I found the chicken and lamb a little on the bland side. The white sauce was good, but not amazing. I didn't try the hot sauce, but apparently it is really spicy. Portion size is huge, I split an order with a friend and still couldn't finish it. After a while, I got a little bored of eating it. Perhaps a little overrated, but it is certainly a bang for your buck.
Skip the line and head to their cart on 53rd and 7th. It's just as delicious and piping hot! The guys here are hilarious too. They keep me laughing at 3 in the morning. Combo with white sauce, then smothered in hot. Yes please!
Across the street from the Hilton. Good food and a very cheap price. Get tons of sauce because it's wroth it. The spicy sauce is super spicy, so be careful!!! I prefer the lamb over the chicken, but sometimes I get half and half. Really good either way! Bring cash & the lines go by super fast.
The first time I saw this place, I have no idea why this food cart always has people wait in a long line. Then I found out. It's delicious and cheap. ?I would say, it's the one of sigh-seeing in New York. ;)
I wasn't too thrilled with the food here, like everyone else is. Standard halal.
This food truck/stand is literally right outside my office. ?I visit on average once a week. ?love it! Pros: Cheap Delicious huge portion size ton of sauce Open all the time Cons: Always got to wait on line. Get fat!
Love it and miss it! I just moved to Houston and this is something I've been craving. ?I certainly haven't found a local equivalent! I miss these guys.
Food is a solid 4, good flavor, not too greasy, can't seem to be able to ever put too much white sauce on it. A 5 star for value. for 6 bucks its a ton of food. Would recommend to anyone!
Oh man lamb over rice what more could I say about this place. No eating area besides benches nearby and lines are long but move quick. Definitely worth the wait if you are in New York. Not too far from Times Square. Portions are big so Sharing is a good option.
Portions are huge! Adequate for 2 people. Not something that is an absolute must if you are in the city. It's good for once every 2 month or so. Will start tasting nasty if you are eating it more frequently.
Would pick this place over A LOT of good restaurants in NYC. I was in NYC for 5 days recently and I ate here 4 times. I think that says enough about how good this place is. Don't let anyone tell you "it's just chicken and rice, homie, how good can it be?"
Another five star review for Halal Guys. Tried this place out for the first time, and it didn't disappoint. The gyro/chicken over rice tasted amazing. Huge portion for only $6! The line is long, but the guys working are super quick and have a great method to getting the food out in a speedy manner! Highly recommend if you're coming to visit NYC or if you are already lucky enough to live here! :)
Yep, its the bomb. Cruised by late night, picked up the beef. Doused it with yogurt sauce and bbq sauce. Then I discovered the hot sauce. Let me stop you here. ?This sh!t is HOT! Food was incredible, at a fantastic price. You HAVE to check this spot out. ?Just watch the hot sauce, or you will regret it the next day.... I did.
Best $4 spent of my weekend in NYC. I passed this stand at about 4:30 pm while wondering around, they already had 30-40 people in line. I walked a block and realized any place that has a line that long it must me good, and boy oh boy I was right! I got a gyro sandwich. It was a bit messy, but the combination of hot sauce and cool white sauce really pleased my palette. Next time I'm in the neighborhood I'll be stopping by again.
great food !
I absolutely love them! Service is quick fast, the portions are perfect.
Ive frequented the cult favorite for lil under a decade. Until last night... the quality has deteriorated significantly. What the.hell happened.to the.delicious sauce combo. I.couldnt even finish the plate and I was starved that night!! The gyro and.chicken was a total disappointment..it.was so bland that the lettuce took on.more of a flavor.in the.dish. ?Try your luck elsewhere with the more flavorful halal cartsin and around.the.city.
There are so many halal carts on the streets of NYC. I'm not really sure what the buzz is all about with just this particular stand, because to be quite frank, after trying these guys a handful of times, the other carts are way better when it comes to taste and flavor.
Love these guys! I only eat from them and the guys on 86th in Brooklyn.
Had a chat with the owner who happened to be around after reading the NYTimes article about their pending franchising. He was friendly! That said, their food is not special to me. The meat was cut up in super tiny pieces (I would have preferred larger), didn't taste much different or better than other halal places, and the "salad" was a bit of iceberg lettuce. They could have done better. I'm not sure what I'm missing but I don't get the hype. Yes, they were the first place to serve this kind of food in NYC, but that doesn't necessarily make them the best.
If you go anywhere BUT here to get food you're a waste of life on Earth. Nothing can beat their platters... Me and my friends go here at least once a week from NJ to get some delicious lamb over rice. White sauce, spicy sauce, bbq sauce... they aren't joking about the hot sauce being hot.
I am missing the hype here. The price was great. ?They are busy but very nice guys. ?The chicken is minced into dry dusty oblivion. The gyro was good but dry as well. The rice was overcooked and dry. ?I know it's a food cart, and you expect a bit less, particularly for the very affordable $6.00 ticket, but the way people rave about these carts, you'd think that they would somehow exceed their competitors. ?I had a much better shish kebab off the Halal cart near Lincoln Center on the corner at Juilliard's campus. I like my meat to be a little less pre-digested. ?The sauces were AOK, but diced meat versus the shredded mess that they dumped into my aluminum tin would make them a texture and a flavor winner, and make it worth the 5 star raves.
Yup this place is the real deal. It was everything I hoped for and then some. At 2am, there were some concerns that the product wouldnt be fresh, but that ended up being a nonissue.They definitely dont skimp on the meat and the rice is prepared fairly well. The portions are very reasonable, the price point is good and the sauces are adequate. The red sauce is hot as balls, which i was not aware of, so if you have a sensitive palate a few drops will do.
Great place, and one of the best Halal carts in the city. But I must admit, most of the lure for me is in the nostaligia. So many immitators have come along, and let's be honest, there's no competitive advantage and the white sauce and chicken business. In fact, I probably prefer 2 or 3 carts over this place. But every now and then I still will drunkenly take a cab here and get an order of chicken and rice with white sauce/bbq sauce. Haven't been disappointed yet.
Been back here the last couple of times and I must say that I thoroughly enjoy it. ?Could be because it's the only Halal worth trying since my usual guy is gone at Penn Station. ? The big news is that they're opening an actual store front. ?Stay tuned to their website for more info.
On NYC on a bus tour trip heading to Cooperstown...staying at the Sheridan Times Square Hotel and our tour guide told our group that there is a line at this food cart pretty much every day no matter what time. Researched the Yelp reviews and decided we had to try it before we left in the morning. Got in line around 12:45am on a Friday night / Saturday morning. Line moved quick. Handed over $6 cash and ordered the "mix" of chicken and gyro over rice. ?Shared it with my dad since we were not very hungry. PLENTY of food for the both of us. I preferred the gyro meat over the chicken. Used the recommended "white sauce" and it all tasted awesome. If you are hungry and don't have a bunch of $$$in your pocket, this is a can't miss especially if you are visiting from out of town.
We went here one night around 7:30 pm because of the great reviews. There was a long line that went fast, the prices were reasonable, the service was friendly enough. We ordered 2 orders of chicken with rice. My two kids (6 and 12) and I shared them. It didn't have much flavor, so I didn't eat very much, but both kids ate the food and thought it was good. However, at midnight my 6 year old threw it all up and at 3:00 am my 12 year old did the same. Eat at your own risk.
Had the gyros over rice with a ton of white/hot sauce. ?There's nothing to say that hasn't been said before. ?It's filling, delicious, cheap... everything you want street cart food to be BUT the long lines are a bit ridiculous.
Good portions and the chicken over rice is good, but waaay overrated and there are tastier ?halal carts out there in the city.
The Halal Guys is an experience but not the best Halal food I've tried. Personally, I will not go out of my way to buy outdoor Halal from them. You can get better Halal Food from somewhere else, and the Halal Guys is a tourist trap. Don't be that person.
I eat Halal food, at least, once a day (it is beginning to show in my waistline), and--as such--am a huge snob when it comes to how it is prepared. With that said, The Halal Guys do not make my favourite variation of Halal food by a long shot (the nerve of me, I know), but I am an Honest Abe; I cannot tell a lie! Before the diehard fans write me off as an ignorant noob with an untrained tongue, let me highlight the good things about The Halal Guys and their product, specifically the platter. Pros: Portion: The amount of food that comes with your meal is unmatched; you can trust that you are getting your money's worth, which brings me to the next pro, Price: For $6 a platter, you are given enough food to satisfy two stomachs (but if you are a champ, you chow these suckers down solo) The Sauce: I don't know what is in their white sauce, but it always keeps me coming back for more. The hot sauce--enough to render you blind with tears if you are unprepared--is also a divine treat. The Result: After finishing your meal (if you do, in fact, eat all of it), you are left in a state of euphoria. You have a full stomach, a happy soul, and firmly believe that everyone and everything in the world is lovely. If you are chowing down past 3 a.m on the weekend, you are also probably one step closer to waking up without a massive hangover. Now that we have the good, let's move on to the bad: The Rice: I find that it never tastes as good as it looks. For me, it always seems as if it is never cooked long enough, and ends up being unpleasantly hard; almost crunchy. The Flavours: Dare to eat your platter without any sauce, and you will find that the meat really is nothing to write home about. Many of the Halal carts that I frequent chop their meat up with a delicious concoction of peppers, onions, and other various spices that make the sauces an added bonus, and not a necessity, to your meal; The Halal Guys, sadly, fall short in that regard. The Chicken: I used to order the Chicken and Gyro (Lamb) combo, but after biting down into bone a number of times, I had to ditch the chicken. I understand that it happens, particularly when you are working with such a high volume of customers in such a short time span. All the same, it ruins the experience. Overall, the Halal Guys provide a tremendous service; that much is obvious with their near monopoly over Halal food in the immediate area and the reputation their brand has in NYC and beyond. You will either love The Halal Guys and become a diehard fan, kind of like it and re-visit from time to time, or downright hate it and renounce it altogether. In any case, you are sharing an experience with all who go to these famed carts and enjoying what has become a staple in an otherwise under-appreciated industry (street cart food). Bottom line? You've gotta try it!
If you were to just see this, it would look like any random food cart. But I assure you its sooo good. There is just an amazing unique flavor to their food. I came here late at night in the winter, but if you are going during the daytime & summer expect a long line!
not appetizing, tastes kind of gross and cheap to me. I don't know how i feel about halal after this.
Fat Peter rating system. as follows: STARS- standard yelp CHANCE I WILL BE BACK- YES Why I went ?-late night dish ?of rice and chicken taste delicious its like 5 or 6 dollars. ?sometimes I drop 5 or 6 dollars I just keep walking figure its too much work to walk back and pick it up. ? I like Lamb and rice or beef too IT taste great.. try it.
Great food, very generous portions, and reasonable price! Gyro (lamb) over rice was delicious!
Two thumbs up for late night cravings especially after a night of bar hopping. ?The line can be long but there are several carts that serve the same food. ?Be careful of the red sauce though... it's dangerous!
Might be the best halal spot in all of nyc...and that's saying a lot. Great value, delicious food, and unlimited white sauce. Also, pita bread is automatic, don't have to pay extra for it, which makes it all that more delicious.
This place had a huge lineup every time we passed by. And it surely has a reason for it. For $6, you get to have meat over rice, some salad and couple pieces of bread. It was very tasty... but watch out for the red spicy... it is extremely spicy!!!!!! The portion is great and will definitely fills you up. P.s. the line might look long, but it took about 5 mins to go thru 20+ ppl in front of us..
I ate JUST Halal Guys in one day! No joke. I literally did. Honestly, Halal Guys was in my top 3 places I knew I HAD to eat at when I visited last month. I was prepared for the long line and knew exactly where to go to get to the ORIGINAL Halal Guys cart- damn, I sound like a Halal Guys stalker. I also felt like a local, because by the 2nd or 3rd time I went, I knew exactly how to get there. And that ?LINE! It was long, but went by quick. At most, I waited for 10 minutes. The first time I came here, the wait even went faster because the nice people to talk to in line. I recall one was from New Jersey who talked me up a storm about places to visit while in NY; he was probably the nicest person I met in New York. I digress.. let's talk about food. Like everyone else and their mama said, you probably can't go wrong with what you choose here. All times, I ate the Chicken and Rice. Seriously though, that dish was crack because it's addicting and ridiculously good. It even had some veggies (lettuce) and a pita bread in there; makes you think your'e eating kinda healthy?! I made sure to not put too much red sauce, as I heard it was terribly hot. But actually learned I can take more of it. I'm one, hot girl yanno =P. Servings, to me, were generous. For me, one dish is equivalent to two meals. As I said earlier, I ate Halal guys in one day. I had left overs from the night before, and ate the rest for brunch. THEN, I got Halal again for dinner and an outdoor movie. Talk about getting Halal wasted! It was definitely a good kinda drunk. And lemme mention that it's not expensive to get this experience: $6! (cash only) Now that I'm actually considering moving to NY next year, I'm kinda scared about my waist line, because I would definitely be a regular here. I just love being Halal wasted.
Excellent!!
Above average quality street food with a lot of flavor, and large portions for less. People come for the chicken and rice platter with their famous white sauce. I, on the other hand, am all about their hot sauce. This red sauce isn't "American spicy," it's full on ethnic ear aching spicy. I watched one of my gringo friends sweat bullets and cry man tears while consuming said sauce. Was it worth it? YES. Definitely a good lunch spot if you work in near their trucks or their brick and mortar joint in the east village. Edit: As others have mentioned they are stingy with their sauces. I haven't been a patron long enough to know how they did things prior to becoming popular.
Inexpensive quality indian food with fast delivery in Finsbury Park area in London.
I got the chicken over rice plain with sauce on the side. I didn't like the white sauce b/c I don't like mayo. The hot sauce was just very hot. The chicken itself is completely bland. It tastes like the there is no seasoning on it. You get a ton of food for $6 but it has no taste. I've had much better halal food before. I dont get all these good reviews
Some say it's over-hyped, some think the long line is not worth it, but this is actually some of the best chicken over rice I've had in Manhattan (not that I'm a chicken over rice connoisseur or anything). The line actually moves fairly quickly because they are so incredibly efficient, and there are two carts now at diagonal corners which also speeds things up. Definitely don't put all the red sauce in, IT'S REALLY SPICY!! Even for someone like me who loves spicy food.
A must have in NY. ?It is so so so good and it is fairly cheap for a big portion of meat and rice plate which can be shared between two people. ?Don't forget the white sauce and don't put too much hot sauce because it is extremely spicy.
I remember when Chicken and Rice first became the rage. The guy who started it all was amazing. Last I heard, he's gotten sick and only shows up once in a while. Although it's not as amazing as it used to be, it's still very good and addictive. It's all about the sauces. You have to drench your order in white and red (spicy) sauce. ?Don't be shy with the white sauce. The spicy sauce is really spicy, so be careful. The lines can get long, but they move pretty darn fast. Expect to spend about 20 mins on average in line. Not too bad. Cash only, so come prepared. There are plenty of ATMS in the area.
OH. MY. GOD. Why don't they have this on the west coast?! Only $6 for a HUGE plate of the most AMAZING chicken and gyro rice plate ever. And it's not just a huge plate of rice. They're very generous with the meat! So simple, but the meat is SO tender and flavorful. Personally, I prefer the chicken a little more than the gyro because it was less greasy, but both are amazing. I'd definitely recommend getting the mixed plate so you can try both. The plate also has some lettuce/salad and a few pieces of pita bread. And the SAUCES. I got the sauces on the side and dipped my meat into them instead of pouring it all over my plate so that I didn't drown out the flavor of the meat. The red sauce had a great kick to it, and the white sauce was amazing. But honestly, the plate itself is amazing and flavorful even without the sauces. I was expecting to have to wait a long time because this cart is so popular, but was pleasantly surprised to only have to wait at most 10 minutes around lunchtime on a Saturday. Definitely a MUST-HAVE if you're visiting NYC!!
I got the lamb with rice. ?It was so good! ?The white sauce is a must and the red if you want to kick it up. ?Worth the long line and wait.
The cheapest and most delicious thing in NYC! So nice, you have to add lots of sauce yourself!
Almost 4500 reviews and 4.5 stars? What else is there to say except this place is AMAZINGGGGgggg! Cheap, delicious, generous portions, reliable, friendly. It's mind blowing that you can get a kick-a$$ experience from food carts, while so many regular restaurants can't even figure it out. I always get the chicken and rice plates, no extra sauce or specific requests required. I love em just as they are ;) They've given me free "Halal Guys" reusable totes a couple of times, too!
Yes! Yes! Yes! Ask for the hot sauce (only use a little!) and definitely the white sauce. Make sure you don't go to the imposters. Oh, and you must get the combo chicken and lamb. Happy just thinking about this food truck!
The Gyro rice is one of the best meals I had in NYC (really cheap too - $6 for a big portion). I love the yellow (saffron?) rice. Add some garlic n BBQ sauce and it's even better. Beware of the chili sauce though, I thought it was regular Sriracha sauce, turns out it's hotter than that. So don't go crazy and put too much chili. I was there on a Thursday evening around 7pm, there was no line. Also, beware of "fake" halal guys, there are other food trucks around the area that has "halal" as part of their name, but they are not The Halal Guys. The one I went to was on the left of Starbucks, they have more customers than the other Halal food trucks.
Um, really good, tasty, late night, drunk dinner. ?We even ate our leftovers for breakfast the next morning lol. ?For $6, you can't go wrong with a lamb dinner plate!! Beware of the red sauce - it will make you cry for about 15 minutes. ?One drop was enough to floor me!! The white sauce - I could swim in a pool of it. ?SOO good all over your food. I really wish they had one in Philadelphia....sigh. ?Can't wait to go back to New York to eat here again!
Just amazing, best to go across the street, its the same food/company/cooks (they alternate), just without the lines
I have been eating Chicken & Rice aka 'Platters' for ages after late drunk nights in the city-- and always have been a fan of The Halal guys on the corner of the 53rd St & 6th Ave. ?They have 4500+ reviews that is 4.5 starts but I am going to go against all of it because last two times I ate the food from here, my stomach was upset for days. And I am not just not writing this negative review based on my experience, few of my friends have experienced the same problem lately. I have decided to stop eating here till my friends tell me it is safe to eat again. On a good note, when I was there last time-- they were filming something & gave me a key chain (that's all I remember because I was too drunk which is norm when I visit them).
I've been to the stand on 53rd and 6th on numerous occassions. ?Their chicken and gyro combo compares to no other halal stands in NYC imo. ?The hot sauce they give is so favorful that it's so addicting. ?I swear they put crack on here. ?They opened up a couple of new spots I think near 14th st and one by Lagaurdia College in queens.
used to hit this place up every time I was in New York in my drunken stupor... I think the quality has gone down... I used to be able to scarf down 2 plates... now I can hardly finish 1
Its good. If you're from out of town and need to check this off a tourist list then i'd suggest it or if you are drunk and in midtown then go for it. When i want street meat with a little class then i'd prefer Carnegie John's, which is only a couple blocks away.
The best, in every way possible. No other halal cart comes close. ?I have stood in driving rain at 11PM for it.
There isn't really anything not to like about this place. Really good chicken/lamb over rice or sandwiches if you prefer. I usually get the chicken over rice to go and they give you the white sauce in larger cups and hot sauce in small cups. The white sauce is their version of mayo which is really yum. The hot sauce is given in tiny cups with good reason. It really packs a punch! One tip to avoid the long line is to go to the halal guys cart across 6th Avenue from the Hilton. As I understand that's a feeder cart for the main one next to the Hilton so the food is the same but the lines are much much shorter. Also, the portions of chicken/lamb over rice are large so its splittable unless you are in the mood to pig out.
Probably this review won't matter much however I still like to voice my comment. For $6 for a huge plate of meat, veggie and rice, I can't ask for more. I have to share this with my sister and in the end, we are both full after a long bike day. I found it funny that everyone just sit on the side marble fence and eat up their meal. This is a gift for tourist and new yorker for sure. Only thing is I will like there to be more garbage can for the trash. People sometimes left the meal on the bench or drop their stuff "accidentally". Sadness. I am sure not if they will make gyro but I will sure to ask for one next time.
What hasn't been said about this cart. ?We dragged all 3 of kids (9, 7, & ?under 1) close to midnight to get to experience this goodness. ?I had made a copycat recipe but wanted to try the real deal chicken and rice. ?We also tried the chicken, lamb, & rice. ?We asked for extra sauce and they dumped a bunch in our bag with a "sure!" ?The hot sauce was indeed hot...like burn the internal lining of your stomach off...but well worth it and so good. I'm glad I read previous reviews warning us of the spice levels. Definitely worth it to say we tried it.
This is the only place I will chicken and rice. ?I got food poisoning from another one in the Upper West Side once and have sworn off of chicken and rice since. ?If you've ever spent 3 days living in your bathroom...you'll understand why. ?However, because of the high turnover of food and fast sales, I know the food here hasn't been out all day. ?I usually get the combo with rice and it's amazing. ?The white sauce really makes the dish, I'm not sure what's in it, I'm sure it's probably high calorie and fat, but if you're considering street food, you're not counting calories. ?I like to put on a lot of white sauce. ?Use the hot sauce with caution, maybe a dime size to quarter size...it's spicy! ?Have your cash ready and know what you want to order. ?The line might look long, but it moves fast. ?You can get a soda at the separate drink cart. ?It's a high calories, probably high fat, but delicious, generous portioned and cheap meal!
EDIT: DO NOT get the food at the cart with the "express lane" sign. This is their bad, D-grade quality and portions. Don't go to this cart if you want the good stuff. Go to the cart a few feet away at the SW corner of 6th and 53rd. In front of the Hilton (with the big lit-up "Hilton" sign). The chicken (and lamb) over rice is PHENOMENAL. ----- Tastes blander and different from what I had in January. Smaller portions of rice and meat. Less seasoned. Even the sauce is thicker and more like mayonnaise. Did they get lazy or something tonight? 04/25/14 11:20 pm
About a 2.5: I was really excited to try out the Halal Guys, as this is one of the most famous NYC food cart, off of 53rd and 6th (they also have several other locations, but the aforementioned location is the original spot). ?They are opened late daily, from 7PM until 4AM, and up until 5AM on Fridays/Saturdays. ?Their menu is limited, which includes: Chicken over Rice, Gyro over Rice, Mix Chicken & Gyro, Falafel ove rRice, and sandwich options (gyro, chicken, or falafel). ?The two guys there were very straightforward and quite efficient, and they recommended the mix as it was our first time. ?I did not forget to ask for extra white sauce (which they were quite generous with, which was a total plus!). ?The meal itself is a great generous size as well - I wasn't a fan of the gyro meat as it had a weird off taste to it; however, the chicken was actually pretty tasty (slightly dry), with the seasoned (extremely spiced up) rice. ?It also contained some icceberg lettuce and strips of pita bread. ?I think the next time, I would probably just stick to the chicken & rice!
$6 chicken and rice plate was the best! Make sure you put a lot of white sauce on top. I think it's a mixture of yogurt and mayo. Not sure though
Love the chicken and rice, just wish they had real yogurt sauce
Not sure why people are so ga ga over it. We had it in December around 24th when we visited rocker feller center. There was a big line and we had to wait for around 25 minutes. Ordered chicken over rice. The taste was average. There was lot of oil in the food. Atleast I didnt feel any difference between taste of this and other halal guys food I had experienced in NY.
What's wrong with New Yorkers? If this is good, then I doubt everyone has ever had good food. The pepper is Mexican Pepper, taste not bad, but the quality of the rice and meat is extremely disappointing. It is extremely disgusting and it has MSG. I feel thirsty after eating it.
simply good.
It's been almost a year since I've last had some chicken and rice with the infamous white sauce from the halal guys, time to make another trip to NYC. This time around I won't be a noob and bedazzle my plate with a volcano explosion of the hot sauce. Lesson learned. For someone who eats spicy, tears were literally coming out of my eyes. I digress, anyway halal guys ... Please open one in SF.
Meh. ?Maybe they were having an off day or something, but our food was just okay. ?Pretty good portion for the money, but what's all the hype about? ?Was excited, but now disappointed.
I ?hate halal food. cant even walk past a halal food cart without cringing. but damnnn im always craving halal guys !
chicken & rice! white sauce (take extra to-go for leftovers/dry rice) hot sauce: a drop (the size of a penny) goes a long way! be prepared to wait (on a rather fast-moving line).
Since my last review, the Halal Guys have expanded to include a cart on 53rd Street and Broadway/7th Avenue and have also now opened up a sit-down restaurant in Union Square. The food is still yummy and the lines are still as long as ever. Why the -1 star then, you may ask? Because they now limit the amount of sauce you can take!!! Not too long ago, I could easily grab three or more containers of white sauce or ask them to load it up on my plate. Just yesterday, I saw they only gave two and I tried grabbing some more, and they yelled at me saying I have to pay extra! Blasphemy!!! (Yes, I know I am spoiled, but you can't just downgrade the sauce on customers after years of offering them unlimited amounts. That's just wrong! *pout*) Anyway, I split a combo over rice order and the two white sauce containers with my BFF and still loved the food, so I guess it's not the worst thing that could happen. I do feel like the hot sauce doesn't have as much kick anymore. Maybe that's just my dying taste buds from years of eating spicy food? Overall, it's still awesome, and I'll definitely come back, even if I'm still crying over my limited white sauce.
First, let me start off by saying I've never had this without going out before.The food is delicous and it is definitely worth the wait. 3:1 ratio on white sauce to hot sauce. If you want to avoid the grease, I suggest getting chicken/lamb on pita, not the standard platter but definitely tastes just as good without the rice!
big portion. could jus buy one and share with someone
Cheap and delicious street food in New York City? Count me in! My friend told me I have to come here when in the city. I got the chicken and rice, and I loved it! HUGE portions, I'm definitely sharing with someone next time.The spicy sauce is something else. WOW it is so spicy. Even if you drown your food in the white sauce that it comes with, the spicy sauce will be overpowering. I love that this place is open so late. It makes for great drunk eats at night. Beware of the line though, it gets pretty insanely long! But there are several locations, so go to those instead of the main one right at the Hilton. P.s. Get a bottle of water in case your mouth is on fire like mine was from the spicy sauce!
They used to be good , but now they hired the rudest arab morons ever , they give 1 white sauce per plate and wont let you put extra sauce.when someone is a public dealing frontface , they should have manners. The chicken is dry , the pita bread is not exactly fresh. Health dept should check it.
Delicious food . Enjoyed every bite.. For $6 you can't go wrong. It was worth the wait. Purchased the gyro chicken over rice and took another box to go. There are 4 other locations. The food is fresh and handed over to you instantly. If Ya have a break or in town, go there.
Decent but nothing special..
Alright. Ive heard about this place from many people. Something i wished i knew before going in line is that there are multiple locations. This means that if one line spans a block, check out the other ones to see if those were shorter. Good thing was, they still served pretty quickly. They dont really give you time to think too much when you are up next. So note, you better know what youre getting so that you dont hold up the line! Haha Anyways, we got there about 8p. Line was about a third of the block. New york blocks are pretty long, so thats a pretty long line haha. At first i was about to leave, but hey, i wanted to try it! You see all these people on the side feasting on these huge circular containers. My bf and i got the combo and the chicken and rice. Everyone who talked about the white sauce is right. Its pretty good. To me it kinds tasted like ranch, but hey...i like ranch!! Haha pour it aaall over your order cuz you will keep wanting more (plus itll be a little dry without the sauce). Anyways, it wasnt the best thing i ever had in my life. Im giving it 4 stars for quick service, amazing price (6 dollars for a huuuuuuge dish), and size of dish. Could prob feed 2 people (or 1 extremely hungry person). Overall Service- Long line but goes by quicker than you would think Staff-Just want you to order and get the line moving Food-Just ok Price-awesome Portion-Huge
I heard about the hype from friends about these guys but nothing too big of a deal except a ridiculously long line just to get halal. ?Sometimes people think there is just one cart but theres actually a few right across the street/down the block. ?Its great how you put your own amount of sauce on your food. ?I once even saw a dude take a bottle home! ?But beware, the hot sauce is a little on the up side so dont be an idiot and squeeze the amount like you would with a siracha hot sauce.
chicken over rice
I ventured to their brick and mortar based on their reputation as one of the best food trucks in the city (and didn't want to venture midtown). Their place is relatively low key, and a frequent late night destination after the bars. The food is pretty inexpensive and I would say the quality is similar to your high end food truck but obviously fresher. The food portions are also great. I usually get the combo platter and have yet to be disappointed. Great for anyone in a pinch and I would return.
Great late night food! ?It's delicious, but be prepared to wait on line for a little while.
I was wondering why the lines around these food carts were so long, and now I understand. Both the food and price are phenomenal. Just thinking about their chicken and rice plate makes me salivate. This is at the top of my list of things to eat in NYC.
GDSJFNSKDGHNADSFVKSD this place... is HEAVEN regardless if you believe in afterlife ?or not! These people know what they are doing! Cooking up very addicting food that I cannot be sick of no matter how many times i eat it in a week. For 6$ I can satisfy my tastebuds,hungry stomach, cravings and happiness. Everytime I go there's always a long line that can stretch as far as half a block down. Even though the line is long , i am not even mad. Not one bit because its all worth it once i ?taste the food. Their white sauce is on point and if you are a fan of VERY VERY spicy food, the red sauce is a very nice addition to the food. Since most of the time i cannot finish this myself, i would split with my bf. This is really a value meal that feeds 2 and it makes me much happier than a candle light dinner on a date night.
Very good, simple, inexpensive food. Cooked right in front of you. We always get the rice and chicken dish with extra white sauce to go. ?Sometimes the lines stretch the whole block - amazing!
Heaven. Just sweet, sweet Heaven. It was my first time here and braving through the cold to get to the cart and eat it outside was worth it. Came here around 2am on a Saturday night and there were no people. We got the infamous chicken and rice with red and white sauce on the side. This stuff is amaaazing. We finished the first one and loved it so much that we got a second one to go. WARNING: Use red sauce sparingly. I can handle spicy but this stuff is off the charts.
Favorite food to eat while in the city, they never fail to disappoint. I'd sit out in the blistering cold just to enjoy one of these! I don't know any halal that's better in the city.
I was obsessed with this spot cause of the amazing additive food but was super disappointed when they gave me ranch dressing instead of white sauce last time and have yet to return.
An ode to the halal guys, the top three things I've done to get my hands on a dollop of their perfectly hand-crafted, creamy white sauce. I'm very serious about my obsessions and this is definitely one of them. 1) Redefined the meaning of fat-ass. ?Asking someone to drive me from Binghamton on a weekend whim all the way to NYC for, you guessed it, 53rd & 6th. That's 3.5 hours one way. And what a long ride that was. 2) Taken a cab from the west side of Manhattan in the middle of the night in my half drunken stupor to eat a plate of this all encompassing goodness over a NYC garbage can. All while my boyfriend vomits in one next to me. 3) Remember the blizzard of 2014? Me neither.
The Habal guys...no matter how many times I go up to the line it's always long! What's great is that the line moves fast! After the New Years ball dropped (when I went to NYC in 2006) we went to grab a late night bite since halal guys was by our hotel...holy crap it was like all of Manhattan was in line. It was Sooo worth the wait though. Every time I'm in town I make it a point to get my fix...with extra white sauce. Price is pretty good too. Won't be disappointed!
Omg I f***cking love this place! Best $5 dish you can ever buy. Drunk or sober doesn't freaking matter I love it and the hot sauce is to freaking die for! I'm about to have this late and I loveee it!
Absolutely fantastic, cheap ($6), and perfect after a long day! Got the mixed chicken and gyro over rice, and it was terrific. And that white sauce is stuff made of dreams. The red pepper sauce is very very hot, just a speck needed. It's perfect if you're staying on a biz trip near or at hilton midtown.
Lines are sooooooooooo long during lunch and after.. But this place is so good!
Definitely one of those place that you need to go if you are hungry, feeling cheap, and have a good buzz going. I order the Mixed platter and it is delicious! I put white sauce all over that thing and I can't get enough of it. I recommend this place to anyone new to NYC as well as locals. Amazing for late nights too but really long lines.
Quite simply the best cart food in NYC. The lines are usually 20+ minutes, especially late at night. The chicken/lamb combo over rice and salad with white sauce is just amazing. It's possibly the most flavorful food you can eat, especially for under $10. I could eat this every day and be happy. Beware the hot sauce. Make sure you taste a little before you toss it on. Trust me, I know from experience.
It's absolutely terrible FOR YOU, but Halal guys is probably the best street food I've had in New York, and $6 gets you a HUGE platter of rice, lettuce, tomatoes, and whatever meat you choose (gyro, chicken, beef, etc.), and your choice of white and/or spicy sauce. ?The spicy sauce is SPICY, so watch out. ?They're all over the place in the city, with a bunch of locations around 6th Avenue in the low to mid 50s. ?Definitely not health food, but it's nice every once in a while.
Delicious in the moment, but be prepared for a day of explosive diarrhea and your stomach flipping over itself. Eating this is a culinary journey through the very definition of the words "consequence" and "blowback." I hate myself for making one last trip after swearing it off and this maalox isn't working quick enough to temper my tiny anus' volcanic nightmare.
At first I thought, "This isn't so amazing... The Halal Guys are not so much better than the others food carts." Afterward, I realized, The Halal Guys are way better. The meat is way better than most places and so is the sauce.
A midtown staple, these guys have been in business for 28 years. This is a food cart, so don't be surprised. But there are a lot of areas right around to sit down and enjoy your food and people watch. These guys serve up chicken and gyro and you can have it on a bed of rice or in a pita - they keep it simple so that they can churn out a couple of consistently high quality dishes as fast as possible, which is key because the line is long, but they keep it moving fast so don't be discouraged - it's definitely worth the wait. Tips. The white sauce is what melds the dish together, so don't be scared to splash that on and even take some extra to go on the side. Be careful, the hot sauce it HOT - get it on the side if you've never tried it before.
HEHE..SOOOO MUCH MEAT!! Love it!!! I can never finish the whole thing. I usually split it into two meals. For seven dollars?! It is sooo cheap and soooo delicious!!! I always get the white sauce. They serve the food rly fast, so no matter how long the line is, u dont wait more than 30min.
I know I'm late on my reviews but better late than never. I visited NYC last year and I must say the halal guys' chicken/lamb and rice was absolutely bomb! Whatever that white creamy sauce was made of, it's so tasty. I love spicy so I add a little bit of the red sauce (it's a good kick but be careful!) Actually I must say I wasn't enjoying it as much because I was skeptical & def wasn't drunk! Lol. But our group bought extras so I ate it second time during our stay.. And yes indeed good sober or drunk food. I hear that there are lots of fake "halal guys" cart/truck so be careful you're buying from the right guys. I also hear they move their carts from corner to corner on 6th & 53rd. ? Enjoy!
One of the best, inexpensive, most filling things you will ever eat in your life time. The line is always long but it moves pretty quick. Make sure you add lots of the white and BBQ sauce.
New Yorkers are the biggest bandwagon fans of EVERYTHING!! ?This ?greasy dirty concoction that sits on a oily grill feeding the Nats and flies before a dirty worker drips his sweat on it on a hot summer day has made me and my coworkers sick so much that nobody I know eats it anymore. ?Prepare to vomit after the halal guys aka "the dirty guys" scoop their filthy under cooked meat onto a dirty tray that came off a dirty truck after sitting in a dirty warehouse. ?If you need halal that badly, visit any of the other carts that are manned by a chef who pisses in a water bottle when he doesn't have a line. ?At least his filthy meat won't be as bland when you have palm sweat and piss mixed in with the white sauce that gets squeezed out of a bottle that hasn't seen a bottle of dawn in its lifetime.
A MUST HAVE when you're in NYC. There are people still waiting in line at 2AM. They even have a fake Halal truck with guys in yellow shirts. Very flavorful and comes in a cute round pie-like tray. The meat is flavorful and the sauces are very good and not too salty. Thinking about the yellow rice and meat make me miss NY!
Delicious lamb or chicken - just be careful with the hot sauce!
My friend has always raved about how the food from The Halal Guys is, and I decided to give it a try because I just came out from a meeting really late, and I gave it a go. It was ok. I mean I didn't experience what my friend explained to me, but for a try it was just okay....
Cheap and Hearty this will fill you up and in turn your waist will fill up any slack in your trousers. Tastes great - perfect for the after-hours munchies.
The food is awesome. The cooks treat you like the lambs and chickens they are chopping. Should have learned the way to treat customer.
great food mad busy line
Nothing better at 2am. Just make sure to have a tight grip on your lamb gyro when in the back of a flying cab.
Though I think there are better chicken and rice carts to be found in the city, Halal Guys is the standard. I usually frequent the cart on 53rd and 7th ave (rather than the crowded 6th Ave location) during off-peak hours.
I may have been exposed to chicken/lamb my whole entire life and been eating it in queens for a good while so I have been exposed to a set taste and expect that when it comes to chicken and rice. When it comes to the halal boys it falls short. The chicken was flavorless to me. That is what makes a chicken and rice dish. The lamb was alright. It was lamb. Can't really complain. I have to admit I did go during the season on Ramadan but it was not good as I thought it would be. Ohhh hot sauce is super hot. Be conservative with this...
Hmmmm... I had an upset stomach the next morning and I've never had an upset stomach. The portion was decent, but I only ate half (thankfully). The chicken was under seasoned...the whole meal was a disappointment. I've had waaaaaay better Chicken Over Rice. If you're in the Bronx Area, try the Truck near Lehman College.
5 stars for sure. ?Without hesitation. ?I base this on a combination of food quality, food quantity, service, and price. ? $6 for chicken and rice which is enough to feed two people. ?Best deal ever. ?If the plate cost $11, then I would not give it 5 stars. ?But this tastes great, is cheap, fresh, hot, and plentiful. ?The line might be long, but wait. ?It's worth it. ?I challenge you to go find this much food that tastes this good for $6 in NYC. ?Oh, and I'm not much of a hot sauce guy, but they sauce they give you on the side is hot. ?Really hot.
OMFG!!! This place is worth walking about the length and breathe of Manhattan. I couldn't believe when I saw this food stall had 5k reviews. for $6 its heaven. Want to make your evening memorable in NYC, take a to go from this place, buy a beer from somewhere and go to your room and indulge in the awesomeness!!!! Beware of the spicey red hot sauce. Its just red chili powder mixed in water and its uncooked. If you indulge in more of it be prepared for a messy morning the day after. And dare not complain, no one warned you. Read the posts below and above, ppl have said the same thing. And still if you want to be a hero, go burn your intestine with the red sauce.
If you're in NYC you have to eat this.
HANDS DOWN THE BEST HALAL FOOD OUT THERE!! These guys know what they are doing. Not only are they quick but they are funny too. They sure know how to lift my spirits up when i go see them. Must try all of their food!!
I just had the swarma and chicken rice plate and I want it again. ?This was so simple but soo freaking good. ?The rice is a dark yellow long rain and the chicken and swarma nice and moist. The hot sauce is pretty hot so get it on the side and be gentle.
They are the best chicken over rice !!
The best. Everyone should give it at least one shot.
My favorite food cart in NYC. I always get the mixed platter with no lettuce, tons of white sauce, a dash of BBQ and a little bit of hot sauce. Then there is a soda truck a few feet away because a beverage is always necessary.
As a traveler from Asia, I would say I never will understand your American's definition of "taste good". I've been waiting in the line for a long time only to get this strange and dry rice mix. The dressing source(darker one) is ass burning spicy and I drank tons of water after taking that! Weird American tastes....
Let me start off by saying, there are better halal carts out there, however i reside in hells kitchen and this better is great. ?No, greater than great, its up there in my humble opinion. ?I rank this place in my top two or three of halal carts in nyc. ? I get this at least once every week or two. ?I recommend getting the combo plate, chicken and lamb. ?The white sauce is to die for and please, please watch out for the red sauce. ?The red sauce must contain ghost chillis or something. ? ? There are multiple locations, i usually go to the one on 53rd and 7th, almost always no lines. ?but i do find they are skimpy-ier with their portions than the other midtown locations. ?But skipping the 10-15 min is well worth it. ? PS: ?There are fakes all around the 53rd & 6th location. ?The Halal Guys always have yellow shirts, yellow bags, the plates are aluminum and round and always look for the logo and the saying "we are different"
This place is THE place. If you eat chicken and rice after you have spent the last four to five hours of the night getting wasted at some bar, lounge, club type establishment - this is your last stop before home. My brothers and I love this place so much that we have driven from Jersey City just to have it for dinner - sober. Even our parents eat chicken and rice from here and they have never set foot on the corner of 53rd & 6th. Our sister probably introduced her friends to this because her older siblings are belligerent hungry drunks. Well, you get the point. I love this spot. My family loves this spot. Whether it's freezing cold outside or hot as you know what, this is the place to get chicken and rice.
First off, there's like 5 other carts on this block all selling Halal food. ?Look for some yellow bags and guys wearing The Halal Guys shirts. ?I was looking for a long line but surprisingly didn't see one at 8PM on a Tuesday night. ?Step 1 is to be sure you're ordering from the right one. Step 2 is choosing chicken or lamb or combo. ?That's basically your options and for 6 bucks, you get a good amount of food and it's a great value. ?beats the hell out of spending it at Subway eating a crappy sub. ?I had the combo over rice and it was good. ?I didn't have another halal cart to compare it against so I don't have a good benchmark. ? Do I dream about the combo plate or plan on making a trip back just for the cart? ?No. ?But was it good and hit the spot for 6 bucks? ?Yup. ?Worth trying for a cheap late night bite.
Omg, Amazing. Definitely lives up to the hype. I love the red sauce bc i love spicy food, and lemme tell u... it's SPICY! And usually other people's spicy is "mild" for me.
I happened to be in the neighborhood enjoying spa week when I walked passed the famed halal guys cart and the line was short! My wait time was about 5 minutes and the guys managing the cart where very orderly and quick with the line. I tried the half chicken/half lamb with rice but didnt taste my food until I got home (Brooklyn) because as soon as I got my order the rain came down in buckets. However, surprisingly my food was still warm when I got home. Also I noticed that everyone keeps pricing the cost at $6.00 but I was given $5.00 change from a $10.00 bill? maybe I was just lucky or he had no singles. I tried tasing everything seperately and truly understood why most of the reviews talk about the lamb - the delicious flavor! But in my opinion it didnt taste any different than lamb gyro meat that Ive had in the past when eaten alone. What I believe takes the taste up a notch is the white sauce- which tastes no different than any other than Ive tasted before BUT the halal guys heap it on and give you even more to take home. Most other halal stands that Ive been to do not allow that. I have been to only one other halal cart in Manhattan where the chicken meat itself was so delicious that the sauce wasnt needed. The flavor of the plain meat from this cart taste like typical chicken and lamb BUT everything together with lots of sauce is just pure deliciousness! I would definitely try them again in the future if I was in the area BUTonly if the line isnt long.
Food was definitely yummy. The after-effects however, not so good~
AMAZING food for after hours. I would visit from Toronto just for this again!
Best chicken over rice! When I was in NYC for vaycay for a week I am pretty sure I ate it 4 outta the 5 nights I was there. Sure my digestive system paid for it after the trip but it was well worth it. Make sure you use the white sauce and be careful with the hot sauce. It's very spicey!
NYC must visit places
ACCEPT NO IMITATORS! This is the legit cart. Ca$h only. Lamb & chicken over rice. Lots of white sauce, go easy on that hot sauce unless you want ring of fire mudbutt. best bang for your buck.
These guys are awesome. As far as food trucks go, this is by far the best one I've ever been to. Fast, good food. Huge portions for cheap! They were super friendly and even remembered us from stopping by earlier in the evening to ask how late they were open :)
I live in California but have heard about the infamous "chicken and rice" from years ago. Years and years ago when I was still in my early 20s, a good friend of mine moved to New York from Cali. The one food he craved tremendously for in Los Angeles was Mexican food (King Taco and El Taurino tacos and burritos to be exact). He told me at least New York has chicken and rice and that subdued his cravings. THIS however, got me intrigued and curious for years on afterward, and ever since I have heard tidbits of this famous street food here and there from a variety of people. I finally had a chance to visit New York with all my girlfriends a year after to visit a mutual friend. I demanded our mutual friend to take us to CHICKEN AND RICE at IMMEDIATELY! She had no idea what I was talking about. I was like Girl, you live in New York and you've NEVER heard of chicken and rice?!?! Are you livin in a cave? hahaha We all went there, stood in line for long time. Once I got my chicken and lamb mix with rice, I put their two sauces over it. Unknowingly, I drenched my chicken and rice with the red sauce. I had NO IDEA how spicy it was so please make sure that you put just the right amount. OH GAWD, their sauces are soooooo good and their food is just really addicting. This place will live in my memory FOREVER!
I know this is already famous enough witout my reviews but I want to add my 2 cents in anyways. IT'S SIMPLY AMAZING DELICIOUS FOOD. $6!!!! You cannot beat that price with the amount of food you get!!! They are fast, they are efficient, they are GOOD AT MAKING CHICKEN/GYRO/RICE!!! Tips: Pay with cash. Bring a drink or buy it at the cart next door. Eat your food instantly under next to the fountain or office building. If the line is too long, go down one block to 7th and there is another cart there. They are expanding so take advantage of it. They are there RAIN OR SHINE!!! till super late. So go!! I live in DC now and I am so sad that I cannot have this more often. Ugh. So worth the trip to the city for it though.
love the cart on 2nd ave, and I never eat street meat eagerly awaiting the storefront location
I dream about the combo platter with extra white sauce. I'm at the point where, if I'm in the area, I've got to get one to eat and one to take home. ?Low cost, excellent food and a great amount for the price. You'll be very happy you stopped by!
stopped by after the dave chappelle tour at radio city. ?my mind wasn't straight so take this review with a grain of salt...or better yet with some white sauce. yes i am also different. i seriously thought the orange rice were bits of cheddar cheese. ?but after careful inspection later did I see the world in a grain of rice. ? ok just take away my foodie card. don't blame me. it's not my fault i got it from a quack in california.
5000th review!!!! I've never reviewed a place on yelp. But I feel compelled to share how delicious this place is. Lamb, chicken, white sauce or red sauce, it's all perfect. A little slice of heaven.
Heard a lot about this place and decided to give it a try on my trip to NY. Got to the place and then saw huge line ups on all four corners of the intersection with their logos on the yellow umbrellas and couldn't decide which one to line up at because I didn't know which one was the original stand!!!! The line ups believe me, go around the block on each side and although they move pretty quickly, the crowds are maddening. I decided to ask a local taxi driver for advise as to which one to line up at and he said go to the three guys on the far left (the shortest line) that is the original stand - I am so glad I did! I was served within a minute, there was no long line up to deal with and because they weren't rushed, they took extra time making it 'special'. I noticed their umbrella did have 'The Original Halal Guys' compared to the others so I knew this was the right place where it all began. Chatted with the owner for a bit, very friendly and humble and I really enjoyed the food. Given, it may not be the very best out there for Middle Eastern / Halal food, however, given how much I got ripped off at every other place in NY for pretty much everything - $6 for a decent and healthy meal was a steal of a deal. What I also appreciated is the fact that all of the men working these carts are clearly fasting during their holy month but so very efficient. I don't know how they possibly can be around food all day and demanding customers and huge line ups while maintaining such professionalism for a street cart. From all the places I ate at in Manhattan and all the boroughs, this was the best value for my buck (or six) - I wouldn't think twice about going here every time I visit.
I'd like to start by saying there was nothing inherently wrong with this street cart, would I tell you NOT to go there? no, probably not! ?Would I tell you to make sure you do indeed go there? no, probably not! I've been to NYC a few times and chicken and rice is a big part of my dining experience, it's a quintessential meal that simply cannot be missed. ?A couple nights earlier during my most recent trip we had grabbed some run of the mill "square container" chicken and rice from a cart on the corner of 44th and 6th. ?Chicken and rice extra hot sauce extra white sauce is the standard order for me at any given cart. My friend and I were looking for places to eat and googled "best chicken and rice NYC" and up came the Halal Guys - rave reviews, lots of links, looked like we'd better be prepared to wait in line. ?We decided hey lets give it a try before we left the city this time. What's different about this cart? There is a line, a fairly long line, though it did move pretty quickly. They serve up their grub in a round tin foil container, rather than the run of the mill rectangular styrofoam ones. They use yellow bags, not the smiley face ones. They do not add any sauce for you, if it's for take out they put it in the bag on the side, if it's to eat now there are jugs at the end of the cart and you help your self. It comes with naan style bread - nowhere else I've been does this. The help yourself sauce was problem number one. ?While we did have to wait for a bit and it felt a bit soup nazi esk (the guy taking money ignored us when we asked question, wouldn't speak to us unless he spoke first etc...) it really wasn't much of a wait. ?We happened to hit the cart during a time when they were cooking up chicken and restocking their rice. ?We got our food and went off to the end of the cart to add some sauce. ?There are white bottles and RED bottles, unbeknownst to us, the red bottles do not all contain the same condiment. ?The white bottles are all white sauce. Needless to say I wasn't exactly happy to have added ketchup to my dinner.... I went back and added some hot sauce, which at this particular cart is spectacularly HOT! ?I like to think of myself as someone who can eat pretty spicy food and I'm usually not the one to ask "is it spicy"? ?This sauce made me sweat, and my lips were on fire. ?In the end the ketchup turned out to be somewhat of a good thing, it tamed the spice, but I still wasn't pleased to have ketchup on my chicken and rice! The rice they use is a little bit different, it's got a yellowish colour to it because of whatever spices they've used. ?There is very little lettuce in this particular version of the dish. ?There is LOTS of very nicely cooked chicken! ?And it also has some naan style bread on top - which no other cart I've ever been to offers. At the end of the day I have nothing particularly bad to say about Halal guys, other than label your bottles! ?The price was about 1$ more than every other cart I've been to, but it did seem as though there was more chicken in the Halal Guys offering, and it did also have the extra bread. Personally the extra bread just wasn't needed for me, and I actually wished there would have been more lettuce, maybe a slice of tomato. The white sauce was delicious, the hot sauce tasted good but was definitely VERY hot. I've been there done that and honestly don't need to line back up at the Halal Guys street cart. ?There was nothing wrong with their food but for me it was no better than what I could get anywhere else. If you eat there - careful what you pour out of a red bottle, you will have to wait in line but it should move pretty quickly, and you should be full after you're done!
You know you can call yourself a New Yorker (or a Queens native) if you can argue that this place is far from the best. Though conveniently located, the halal here is just not worth dealing with their rude (asshole) staff. Make your way down to Astoria where you'll find the best f-in halal ever & the nicest guys at King of Falafel.
Have cash ready to make line go by faster... heard so many great things by everybody, had to try myself and was definitely good!
You don't know what amazing food tastes like until you eaten here. The platters are only $6 for such a massive portion of food. I live in NJ, my friends and I drive into the city just to get platters. The lines are usually big but they have multiple carts but if you want the original cart then look for the massive line.
One of the best Halal Food trucks in NYC Hands Down! There is a reason there is a line down 53rd street everyday! the portions are huge so you can share with a friend, but you wont want to lol. It is a definite must-have!
Best late night meal I've ever had. When I came here with my friend, I was too drunk to know what was going on. I gave money to someone, I got food in my hands, next thing I knew I was in heaven. I ate way more than I should have, but I was helpless. Their white sauce really is like liquid crack. Cheap and highly, highly effective.
the lamb is great, the chicken is kinda plain. they put too much rice and pita bread and not enough meat. but it is one of the better halal foods of nyc
Just good!!
The halal guys always deliver - I've never been disappointed once. For a street cart, they can whip up a mean chicken and lamb over rice. Then I proceed to smother it with delicious white sauce and a few drops of the red sauce (SUPER spicy no joke). The lines here are always crazy long during rush hour - so be prepared to wait 10-15 minutes. The location across the street is also theirs, so don't be afraid to wait on that line if it is shorter! The guys here may not be the friendliest because it is NYC and everyone is always in a rush, so don't take it personally haha.
Best halal cart in the world! Love their spicy red sauce. There is almost always a long line, so be prepared to wait, but it's well worth it!
what exactly is so good about this place?? its good, but not as good as most people make it out to be. ive had it twice, and both times it didnt blow me away...in addition, the guys were soooo rude. i continually told them im taking it to-go, but they just kept rudely telling me the sauces were on the side of the cart. when they finally got it, he sealed it up, gave me the sauces, and told me twice that he's gonna charge me (in a grave and rude way) if i use the sauces on the side of the cart. really????!! its not THAT good that im gonna start stealing it. in fact, i had plenty left over after i was done thank you very much.
Me: Time to write a review for The Halal Guys! BF: Like they need another review... Me: Hmm, good point. No need to write a long review here. There's a reason why they're so popular and they always have a line and people coming back for more. I have visited NYC at least 5 times and never tried them and decided this was finally the time! Everyone says: chicken & rice w/ the white sauce. However, when I was in line I kept hearing people also ask for barbecue sauce too so I decided I must get that as well and I'm super glad I did! Line seems long (well, it will always be long) but it goes pretty quick and you'll be happy you waited in line! Don't forget to bring your CASH. Now go try some!
BEST STREET FOOD IN NYC! The Halal Guys food carts are sprinkled throughout the city, offering pita sandwiches and/or plates with rice (and salad), at amazingly low prices. The Lamb is the best we've ever had, seasoned to perfection, the chicken at its most tender, and the felafel was crunchy and soft at the same time. For $4 on a great pita sandwich, to $6 for a huge plate, you'll see people all over the city enjoying this at every turn. All you have to do is find yourself somewhere to sit, and enjoy this most-luscious offering.
I had to try it because everyone who had raves about the food. I had the combo (lamb & chicken) over rice (yellow). It was delicious and filling. Enough food for two servings. The white sauce is a must and the red sauce is truly spicy....a few drops is more than enough. The pita bread is soft and a nice addition to the meal. Wish there was more pita bread though. I met a girl in line whose been coming here for ~ten years, SHE DRIVES FROM PA frequently (paying $70 in tolls, gas, etc.) to her and her husband the food is that good. I'm just glad it takes 30 LIRR ride and a few minute walk for me. I will most definitely come back again & again.
OK I loved halal guys. I would stop by every single time I went to New York. ?Lamb and chicken over rice, one to eat right away and one to take with me on the trip home for night snack. All in the past. Yesterday I was in queue as usual. I was only two persons away when the guys paused the business to clean up. Some of them were wearing plastic gloves, some of them were not. They swept; they picked up matts on the ground and shaked them; they picked up and threw away the dirty cardboards on the ground; they broke down some boxes and placed the cardboards on the ground....The whole operation. Then they resumed selling. They picked up the pita bread, they grabbed the chicken/lamb/rice..... THEY DID NOT WASH HANDS OR CHANGE GLOVES!!!!! I immediately walked away. Look, I love street food. I have reasonable tolerance and would never hold their cleanness to the standard of even a crappy restaurant, but this is just too much to stomach, literally.
I've always seen the line and walked past. But this time after that smell... mmmmm that smell. I knew it was time. Honestly, the line moved extremely fast! They're really efficient 'cause they know their stuff. Unfortunately very little interacting involved (they even prepare 2 white sauces and 1 spicy sauce in your bag for you instead of asking), but I'd rather be in and out with this kind of line. The chicken had awesome flavor without being sickeningly greasy! -- I think that may be since it wasn't the most flavorful chicken over rice I've ever had though. Luckily portions are huge, and they even give you a few slices of pita bread for only $5. Same low prices even with all the popularity! Great stuff. With such a fast-moving line, don't hesitate to try this New York staple!
Not weak.
Are you people on crack? While this place has OKAY food, the hype and line seriously diminish it from mediocrity to far below sub par. The food really isn't that special or flavorful. The sauce (red and white) are were are the flavor is, which is not very redeeming. We waited in line for 30-45 minutes to get a combo bowl for $6. Yes, the price is quite cheap, and the food was reasonably fresh due to the high through put. However the line is ridiculous, the flavor is underwhelming, the food is a bit greasy, and the bottle situation a little unsanitary/messy if you ask me. For all the hype, I was severely disappointed. If there's not line, go ahead and try it, but not worth more than 10-15 minutes of your time.
$6 dolla make me holla! go for the combo and use the white sauce liberally. so, so good!
I don't know if you ever had something so good you wanted to eat it everyday for the rest of your life but that's exactly how I felt when I had my first bite of a Lamb Gyro from the cart downstairs from the office. ? So Spicy, So Delish. I don't even have words. Just do yourself a favor and find a cart, get a gyro and then do it again tomorrow.
Hands down my favorite place to eat while in New York. I am from Los Angeles, and I have never had halal food before. I stood in line of Halal Guys because a few friends highly recommended I try it. The line was long! However it went by fairly quick. I didn't know what to expect from this truck and didn't know if I should order the lamb or chicken. I played it safe and ordered the combo.. And thank goodness I did!! One bite and I was in love! I have never in my life felt instant gratification with food as I did with Halal Guys. I couldn't believe how fast I ate all of my food! It came with rice, lettuce, pita bread, lamb/gyro and chicken. I had added the white sauce and boom! I didn't believe it could taste even better! Each bite is so savory and you just can't stop eating until it's all gone! I like to eat spicy, so I did add some of the red sauce. (Caution: red sauce is VERY hot!! Suggestion: add a few drops and taste first before putting it throughout your whole plate!) I probably had added too much red sauce because I kept having to drink sips of water, but it didn't matter how hot it was because it was so good I just kept wanting more! It was a good kick making my plate the perfect amount of savory and spicy! 1. It's only $6 for this plate of heaven! 2. Long line but it moves fast. Don't let it intimidate you, and trust that no matter what it's worth the wait! 3. I suggest getting the mix of both chicken and gyro/lamb! 4. Add the white sauce, you won't regret it! 5. Yes, it's a food truck.. The best you'll ever have!! During my 5 day stay in New York I had Halal Guys 2 times (I wish I had it more!).. Just writing thing this review is making my mouth water and I feel like I'm about to go through withdrawals. I will be back New York! And Halal Guys will be on the top of my list of must haves!!
THE BESTTTTT.. It's a go to spot the minute I land in New York.
Oooooooooooh! Burn me in the arm with a cigarette because this halal spot is nowhere near the best in New York City. ? ? My biggest & pretty much only concern was the chicken's lack of flavor. The taste was reminiscent of boiled chicken; I felt like I was eating a salad. I don't buy Halal to eat rabbit food, I buy Halal for it's greasy, savory, deceptively unhealthy, meaty charm. I don't know why the meat isn't marinated; maybe they're trying to appeal to a healthier demographic. Maybe it's all in my head? No it isn't. I've sampled this spot several times. ? ? Even with their sauces, the food is just okay. But they never give enough yogurt sauce and it takes quite some time for it to actually be absorbed. Honestly, I'd stand in line for just the sauce. This place kind of killed any craving I had for Halal.
It's really quite simple. Very tasty, a lot of food, and cheap! I'd suggest the chicken and lamb rice combo, which nicely balances each other out. The slight dryness of the chicken with the slight oiliness of the lamb, complement each other well. I would NOT recommend the falafel. It was crumbly, old, and almost like it had been sitting in steam. Don't do it--really, don't (almost knocked a star off)! Platter portions are enough for two meals/people. The hot sauce is spicy (and I always get everything super spicy)! I made the mistake of licking the lid of the container after I poured it over my food. That being said, I loved it mixed in my platter. The white sauce seemed like a cross between ranch and tahini, maybe? People love it, but it's not my preference. Beverages have to be purchased at another cart. So if you're just trying to get a drink, don't wait in line.
Amazing. Go here and you will not be disappointed.
I come here late at night with friends at least once a semester. The guys serve really quickly and each platter is $6. Last night I got falafel and chicken platter but the falafel was not very good. I suggest sticking to the gyro or chicken. Both come with pita bread and you go to the side of the truck to get white sauce (SO GOOD) and the spicy sauces. The serving sizes are really big and I could definitely share with another.
These guys are so famous that friends back in India know about it!And yup,they do live up to the expectations.The chicken over rice is soo damn good. The falafel-not so much. I could probably eat that chicken everyday for the rest of my life..thats how good it is.The white sauce is creamy and delicious and the hot sauce is perfect for a spicy food lover like me!And all this for $6-unbelievable.The lines are long but that shouldn't deter you coz they move quickly. The portions are huge,you could probably share if you are not a big eater but since I was super hungry(and love to pig out),I could almost finish the whole thing!
I wanted to try this but I read it opened at 7pm. As we were walking along the streets of NY, we see Halal Guys and went into line. Even though we've been Eating since the Morning, we Didn't want to pass the opportunity. ?The Wait was about Ten minutes. The guys are Super Nice and the food was stacked. We got the combo and only $6. We had to try it when it was hot, So Yummy. It even taste good the next day without heating up (stayed in hotel). I wish They have one in Boston, we do, but doesn't compare.
It's everything you could want in late night street food. Hot rice and meat, creamy sauce, and all for $6. Perfect way to end a night out.
So, I've been hearing forever about the famous Halal Guys and let's just say that the food lives up to being spectacular "drunk food"... I'd rather get a halal plate than a pizza, and that's pretty good in my book! This isn't the best halal cart out in Manhattan, but you just can't beat the price. I definitely recommend the white sauce, and beware, the food is pretty greasy and fattening! Also, the red sauce is WAAAAY too spicy..so, if that's your thing, go for it!
I love halal guys and have always had a positive experience but tonight they were extremely rude and stingy when I asked for one extra sauce when I bought two platters. The guy yelled at my friends saying "I already gave you sauce and if you put in extra from the bottles then give back the ones I gave you." Wow I won't go back to that particular corner cart. They were always so friendly and nice! What happened?!
omg this unsanitary street food is amazingly good...portions are huge, cheap and tastes amazing and i was sober when eating! u may get a heartattack cause im sure its horrible for the body with the amount of spicy and white sauce i used but def worth every calorie, fat, and whatever other chemicals they have in this thing... def worth trying at least once even if u are a fit freak... or if u fat and gave up on life def worth eating this thing morning day and night till u get so fat and die
This place is awesome! Prices are ridiculously cheap and the portions? Lemme tell you--I ordered the chicken and rice for 6 bucks and have a lot of leftovers. It's definitely filling. Along with my chicken and rice I received a couple pieces of pita bread and a side salad. The entree is covered in this amazing yogurt based sauce, option of putting a really hot sauce (not your typical Texas Pete). The favor was delicious! Only downfall-I wish the chicken was white meat! That's the least of my concerns.. Make sure you bring cash--no credit cards! This is a food cart, however there are chairs across the cart open to the public 24 hours. Tourists, if your looking for good cheap food, come here..
Quantity not quality. It's a fun place to go to with friends, but you go to it more for the experience of eating from a famous food truck then because you enjoy eating the food. ?People need to get over this place just like they need to stop bragging about the best dollar slice pizza
The Best. If you're heading to NYC for the first time, this is the place to go. Great food, recommend the chicken or lamb combo.
Love em..
Those who know street food know this is the best place for Halal in NYC. ?I don't know what they put in there, but I always get the combo with everything and extra white sauce and extra hot sauce. ?Don't worry, it looks like a lot of sauce when they squeeze it on but once you start eating it, you want more! ?Be prepared for long waits at all hours of the day and night. ?it doesn't matter if it is bitter cold or raining. ?But totally worth it. ?Make sure you go to the right cart with the yellow bags, the ones on the other corner looks similar but is not the same.
Decided to take a farely long cab ride to come here late on a work night during a blizzard, but totally worth it. For a mere $7, you get an entire plate of rice, your choice of meat, and side salad. Be sure to ask for more of that white sauce!! IT'S amazing!!! However, don't have a heavy hand with the red sauce, I am tell you all my spice lovers, this is MUCHO CALIENTE. My friend spread that sauce like it was siracha and her mouth was burning for dayssss! Do yourself a favor and order one to share otherwise, you'll be in a serious food coma for the rest of the night!
After reading about the Halal Guys cart, and after seeing how many people reviewed it, we decided to get take out for dinner-- and thanks, yelpers for guiding us to this place! We went at 10pm and the line was short (4 people ahead of us). We ordered a chicken/rice and gyro/rice. With drinks, it was $15 total. And SO MUCH FOOD! Eat plate had rice, pita bread, lettuce, and tons of meat! Both the chicken and gyro were cooked very well. Comparing the two, I felt the gyro was much more flavorful than the chicken, and would order that the next time I come. As other reviewers noted, that hot sauce is ridiculously spicy! Don't pour it on your food till you dip your fork in and taste a small amount. It's like fire! I'm used to spicy foods, and I could just add drops of their hot sauce. If I could make a recommendation, it would be to change to a milder hot sauce. But that gyro meat, soft pita, and the amount of food is enough to keep this a 5 star!
I love these guys.... i would drive for an hour and a half... searching for parking in NYC... just to get there food..!!! Love it!!
They certainly are "different" compared to the cuisine that you can find compared to the bay area. Halal cuisine can be practically found on any corner in Manhattan, yet this one stand/truck seems to stand apart from the rest. Pretty evident in the lines that stretches twenty people constantly. Luckily enough during my stay in New York one of the stands was located right across the street from me and it was daring me to try. The menu is simple and upon my first visit I asked what was the thing to get and my "server" responded in a split second, the combo gyro and chicken and the rest was history. The food itself is jam packed into a pie pan rapidly and your order is ready to go in less than a minute. The line itself goes by super fast, twenty people no problem! The food is very good and I prefer the lamb over the chicken. The chicken is a little bit dry, which would have been a problem if there wasnt that savory and creamy white sauce that they lather with disregard. I really enjoyed the sauce, but sometimes too much of something isn't too good... diet god's not happy. The lamb is absolutely perfect, well seasoned, moist, and cooked to perfection. One thing to note that is if they ask for hot sauce and you are a first time customer ask for it on the side. They told me it was a little spicy and boy it is one spicy motherf*****. Luckily I asked for it on the side otherwise I would have stood no chance. Finally for six buck's a pan, this place is the bomb. One pan is easily enough for two meals, of if you are just that hungry, in that case me at times I just gobble it all up! Please I beg you to come to the bay area.. pretty please..
The food was plenty for the price. I added falafel to mine since one of the sellers told me it was 3 for $1. But when the food came there were only 2 falafel. When I enquired they said because they were large ones. I think that's not right business ethics. You don't just change the quantity as and when you wish. Overall good food. The falafel is average. I've had better ones. Will be back
I stumbled on THG, rather than finding it on Yelp, after eating some truly terrible kebobs at a Halal place near Rockefeller Center. This was so much better I wished I hadn't spoiled my appetite on the earlier meal. But that comparison aside, it really isn't especially good food. Yes, it's a great value and it's fresh and tastes OK. But don't expect flavor heaven. What makes it four stars is the United Nations aspect of eating here. Families of all colors and languages are here in the early evening, camping out and having their meals on the several benches as a guy plays the drums. It's so much more interesting as a tourist attraction than going to the M&Ms store with the guy from Iowa whose thighs rub together. Do it once to savor that experience. But my prediction is you are not going to end up a regular.
As an out-of-state visitor to NYC and staying at the Hilton at 7th and 53rd, it was impossible not to notice the crowds around the Halal Guys truck. I was curious and looked them up. After reading the reviews, I knew I had to try it before I left the city. I had the chicken and lamb over rice. I got it to go and it came with two white sauce containers and two small red (hot)sauce containers. I knew enough to steer very clear of the red! I used 1.5 of the white sauce containers. Not quite sure why folks rave over the white sauce- it is good and I enjoyed it but it was very similar to ranch. The chicken and lamb were good and flavorful, the rice and salad is good, especially when mixed all together. The bread was soft and very good. Overall it was a good meal. I would call it excellent given the price but if it were $15 dollars then I would NOT call it excellent, hence I will say it is an excellent value and very good food. If I lived here I would definitely eat this often, especially given the price.
Public Service Announcement: T.H.G. opened their first brick and mortar location on E 14th and 2nd Ave. Interestingly, I was the first in line to de-flower their new operations. Per usual, the same drunk-tastic combo chicken-lamb-rice platter with the familiar white and red sauce accoutrements. The space itself is in the basement--- is decently sized with 7 small tables, enough seating for about 15 max? They also have brand snacks (tates), a beverage cooler, and more importantly, freshly made baklava and other sweet pastries for 2$ a pop. (They also have healthy alternatives like packed-salads and such, but who wants that?) Long live the halal guys!
Great street food. ?I can't give them 5 stars because they are kinda dirty... but, for the situtation, they make great combo over salad for only $6. You can't beat the price for NYC.
The best damn halal food I have ever had! 6 bucks for a huge portion. There's a reason why there's always a line.
I picked chicken and rice. It was nothing special. Rather tasteless. The hot sauce was VERY hot. It did not live up to the hype.
Best late night food everrr. I am late to this game as a third year New Yorker, and was only introduced because my husband started a job in Midtown East and we were coming back from an event at his office pretty late and passed these guys. The line was down the block, so we knew we had to see what was what. Even though there were probably 40 people in front of us, they served us in less than 5 minutes. AND like $6 for a massive thing of chicken and rice? WHAT? Delicious. Cheap. Amazing. Only warning: The hot sauce is HOT. Like, H-O-T. I love spiciness and put hot sauce on everything and I couldn't handle this. I ended up tossing out the portion I put hot sauce on because my mouth was on fire. Go for the white sauce instead.
OH, HALAL GUYS!!! THE HYPE IS REAL. I was in NY for 4 nights.. and 3/4 of nights after drunken splendor I found myself here. A chicken plate in hand, seated on a sidewalk bench, with the white and hot sauce.. magical~ just kidding.. not. I actually only ate it 2 nights in a row and tagged along for that 3rd night for a single bite (or a few).. It was good though.. so good. The hot sauce is HOT.. so beware! I can eat pretty spicy too.. but that ish burned.... For about $6 you get such a good portion.. perfect spot for drunchies. I think it's one of those MUST-TRY places if you're visiting NY!
It's true. They live up to the hype. The line moves pretty fast. The white sauce is delicious (must try). The hot sauce will make you sweat. And the BBQ sauce is an underdog (if you get chicken, try it). I think the way to enjoy this place the most is by learning the art of their sauces.
I never leave new you're without having halal guys at least once! You'll always see a line but it's worth standing in for some delicious food. You have 3 options of meat. Either rice or roll. 1.lamb 2.chicken 3.mixed I always get the mixed one. Their quantity is so filling so you know you'll be full. Don't forget to get extra sauce.
i thought i already wrote a review for this... but i guess not? Anyways. if you still don't know what this is... JUST GET IT. even if you're a vegetarian... JUST GET IT. NIKE... JUST GET IT. what is IT? that is a platter of rice with either chicken, lamb, or both. I personally prefer both, but people have different tastes. they're all good though. all for only $6 ?(cash only) TIP: ask for sauce on the side. they'll pack it up for you and give u some sauce containers to take home. Then open up your platter and go to the side of the cart and add all the sauce you want. BOOM. now you have enough sauce for your platter AND some sauce to take home that you can use to eat with anything else. The key is in the sauce!! My personal favorite mix: - A LOT (like COVER the top so you can barely see the rice and meat) of white sauce. It may seem like a lot, but once u mix it, it'll disappear. - a good amount of red sauce (about 2 or 3 tablespoons worth) - WARNING. this is very spicy sauce so if you are not good at eating spicy food, only put a little. but i still think you should put at least a little on, even if it kills you. This sauce gives the kick that the taste needs. But yes, it is very spicy. - BBQ sauce: optional. but i like to put a TINY bit, like .5 to 1 tablespoon worth. gives it a little savory/sweet taste in the background. Everyone should have this multiple times so they can figure out what sauce combo is right for them. Have it your way!
There will always be a line for this but it usually goes pretty fast. This may be one of the best, must try food in NYC and definitely one the cheapest. The chicken over rice is one of the best food I've ever had and can become so addicting. You need to try their white sauce because that's what makes the dish.
One of the best gyro plates I've had. Perhaps it was all of the hype, but I didn't think it was life-changing like so many on here purport. I think the large quantity of food, the uniqueness of the servers, the fact that it is super affordable, and the quality is above average all combine to make this place so popular. It's not the best Gyro in the city, but its cheapness makes it a must try.
There was a long line when I went on a Saturday afternoon. I was excited to get my food when it was my turn. Just moments into taking my first bite I was underwhelmed. It wasn't the piping hot plate of food I remembered the first time buying from this food cart. The rice was luke warm at best. Nonetheless it's still a good deal considering how much you'd get for $6.
Us Angelenos are pretty spoiled when it comes to the diversity and quality of street food, but we don't have the Halal Guys!!!! Even though I had to wait a bit, the money and order taker yelled at me to hurry up while putting my change away and grab my diet coke, then yelled at me when i asked to get it wrapped up to go, I would still come back on my next nyc trip for the chicken over rice.
Amazing chicken over rice. I wish i could eat it everyday. If you are in manhattan this place is a must go.
I found these guys on accident when walking back to the Manhattan Club. I am usually leery of street meat as I have had 1 too many bad apples but it just smelled so good and I was so drunk and hankering for some grease and man this was love at first bite. They truly live up to their hype. These guys get you in and out (sometimes have to wait because there are that many people) and in and out again because you want to go back and try something else. I cant even begin with the sauces... They know they are masters with the sauce so they give you plenty knowing you will ask for more. The chicken is cooked so perfectly and the rice and ALL OF THE WHITE SAUCE is out of this world. I wish I was close enough to hit their carts up more but I try to make it a priority of hitting them up after a night of drinking.
For $6- it's the best $6 meal you would get- it's probably a 5 star for street food but in keeping with my other reviews I feel this is fair. ? I will say it's better than some restaurants I have been to
Best $6.00 you'll ever spend in NYC. Mixed (lamb and chicken) platters, lamb platter, and chicken platter are all the same price. The platter includes yellow rice, lettuce and pita bread with your desired meat(s). Add white sauce and hot sauce to make it a complete meat. This will be the only time where I'll keep requesting white sauce to be drizzled all over my...platter. :) Add a buck for can soda. Please beware of the hot sauce. It is extremely spicy even for the veterans!!
Please don't make laugh, my family swears I make better chicken over rice than that! I season my meat and rice, so no need for white sauce so I save on calories. But my sauce is pretty rockin' if you need it, no probs If i were to sell my plate, i would charge $8 or more, its that good--really, no BS
**BEWARE** ?While waiting on line today I noticed the familiar faces who usually serves up the street meat is no longer there. ?The cart and brand looks the same. ?Seems like the original owners sold the stand, but not the recipe. ?The rice was different, gyro and chicken was chopped into very small pieces. ?Meats didn't have much flavor. ?The flavor I once enjoyed is no longer at this location. ?No wonder the lines across the street is even longer now.
3 words...on the money!!!
Good fast food. Ordered gyros in bread for $4. What does this gyro so good? It is their sauces on the side...
its good street food, very generous portions. not the best street halal ive had, but its filling and they're there like 24hrs/7days a week. For $6 two people can eat these portions. I have to say it is damn deliciois and the lines can sometimes be insane even by new york standards. These guys are doing something right.
People who give this place a poor review must have no souls... To those that give them poor ratings with things like "oh they don't have a bathroom".. ?dude.. ?its a food cart..... ?Or "the hot sauce is too hot, way too hot.." ?Don't be dumb and put it in if you can't handle it.. ?Be sensible. Sure this spot is hyped up but the food is delicious.. ?I always get the mixed plate of gyro and chicken and i NEVER share it.. ?$6 is definitely worth it especially with expensive food prices in the city.. ?The white sauce and the red sauce (that gives you ring of fire) only makes it exponentially better.. ?I''ve come here on several occasions drunk, sober, tired, or cranky and this always remains delicious. ?Definitely a place I always go to several times when visit NY.
I was near by at an event and like always my conversations end up being about food. Well someone told me about this place and how I had to try it, well I'm very obedient when it comes down to food so I went right after my event. It was a very cold night and that's why I think there was no line which I made me very happy. These guys aren't there for their customer skills since they are very serious and just want to take you order so please know what you are ordering. I got the chicken over rice with extra white sauce since I don't like lamb. OMG this food was delicious and a huge portion, I only ate half. Everything was great but my favorite was the white sauce. I put a huge amount over my rice and chicken and then use it to dip in my pita bread. Please be careful with the hot sauce since its super super spicy, not for me at all. I will be coming here again.
mixed experiences.. delicious yes, clean not all the time. ?have had upset stomach after eating here. now that they've expanded into a franchais, the taste seems to have suffered a bit. ?But it's still good. ?Wish they had these things in Boston! ? Cheap and yummy.
It's definitely not the best halal stand around any more, but there's something about this stand that hits the spot like no other stand can. Their system has become remarkably efficient over the years and so the line always moves really quickly.
Their food is amazing i will admit, but there is always a long line for the halal cart that is famous. I'll be honest, it's not really worth the wait, it all taste the same, and the people that work in that cart often switch to other carts to work like they are taking a tiny break because there are not as many customers going to those other carts surrounding it. If you got the time to check it out, I suggest you do. Don't eat it too often though!
Best drunk munchies you can get. The wait is a huge turn off though..
Friends visited last June and I was like yo, you guys have to go here, its absolutely amazing. Luckily, the line wasn't long since it was at a weird hour around 8pm, and us having been exhausted from a day of sight seeing (as they're form Chicago). Grabbed the food, sat down next to the fountain and scarfed it down - it's not the greatest halal to be honest: the one thing I don't like is that the meat is super shredded, and i personally like chunks of meat you can get from other halal carts in the city. The best part is you can put as much sauce as you want, so white sauce galore. Regardless of the shredded meat or not, it's still super tasty, and one of the best deals in the city in terms of price vs quantity vs quality. Had enough left for breakfast the next morning. Yes, we ate it again for breakfast. Don't judge us.
YUMMY!!! this place is hands down the best! And very inexpensive. ?We had the Gyro and chicken mix over rice and it was full of flavor! ?SOOO GOOD!!! Theres a bit of a wait but its worth it.
Lettice (sp) discuss street food in the US. These guys still buy and follow the FDA guidelines. This food is extremely safe. Not that it would matter, this food is extremely good. All tourists should try this at least once (a day) and when I worked across the street it was a once a week lunch favorite. There are many vendors on all of these corners and it's very easy to line up in the wrong que because you feel "They are all the same". Do not fall for it, find these guys first and on successive nights you can try others if you want a variety. Protip: Get the platter and ask for both sauces mixed (if you can handle a little spiciness). Also HAVE YOUR MONEY READY. This is NYC after all
I don't know what they do but it taste so good that you can get addicted to it. Chicken and gyro meat are both tasty. They also give you lots of sauces on the side which complement the dish well. There is a long line throughout the night but it is definitely worth the wait.
Tried to give this place a try last night and I couldn't do it. It stunk so bad I almost puked. The smell of halal and ?rotten garbage bags mixed into my nostrils was not pleasant. Porter potty type smell, yuck. I don't know how people can just stand by the garbage and eat D-: ! Xo
4 1/2 stars after over 4,500 reviews? That's gotta tell you something. ?I've heard people say "street meat is street meat." ?Well they can kiss my ass. ?The Halal Guys bow to nobody when it comes to being the best halal cart in the city. ?Without question. ?$6 for two meals worth of lamb, chicken, and rice goodness. ?And you can't forget to add heaps of white sauce. ?An impeding heart attack at 4am on a Friday night has never tasted so good!! ?Now that they have a cart on 2nd and 14th, my heart may really be in trouble. ?See you soon, guys. WARNING: Order the hot sauce on the side!!! I am pretty much immune to heat, but this stuff was forged in a halal volcano. ?My friend ordered hers extra spicy, and watching her attempt to eat it was one of the saddest/funniest things ever. ?Just don't do it. Your stomach will thank you.
Quick Summary: I've never had 'Chicken and Rice' from any other cart in NYC... but from what I've tasted... it'd be pretty hard to beat this... it was soo good I was plotting how I could buy some and pack it away to bring back! Everybody talks about this place and they do not disappoint. The food is delicious and you can't just beat the value! ?The white sauce is amazing, complements the meat and rice so well... it's highly addictive... Be warned about the hot sauce it is potent... only a few drops will do most plenty... but being the bad ass I am... I had to get more... I almost regretted it, if it wasn't so damn good! There's just no proper way to give this place justice, just go... grab a combo plate and find a seat to enjoy it fresh and hot. ?Avoid the original cart at 53rd and 6th cause the line will get real long. There's another one at 53rd and 7th which is the same, little smaller line but with plenty of turnover so you get the fresh stuff!
CHICKEN AND RICE!!! I saved my 100th review for the greatest thing you could eat! I've been to New York 4 times in the last 5 years and eaten really expensive meals but Halal is still the best meal I have ever had. I have been here over 10 times. I've waited in line in snow and rain for this and I HATE LINES! I know they have multiple locations but I only come to the original 53rd and 6th location that opens at 7pm every day. Always my first stop when I land. When coming, prepare to wait in line! This is a great meal hungry, drunk, or as cold leftovers hangover.Whenever I get recommendations to eat in other states, I always ask what your 53rd and 6th equivalent is. On to the food! Chicken and Lamb with Rice - $6 - I like the combo meats to add dfifferent flavors. I had each by themselves but perfer the combo. It comes with salad, pita bread, white and red sauce. It is mindboggling how something so simple can be so epic. When you break it down, it's just ground lamb and chopped chicken over seasoned rice with pita bread and salad. The chicken and lamb is not seasoned crazy, rice is rice, salad is chopped up iceberg, the pita is packaged, and everything is precooked and kept warm on the cart. Then there are the sauces. The WHITE sauce is creamy yummy crack goodness! I know it is crazy, but I call it the greatest ranch dressing ever created (even though I know it is not ranch). ?And the RED sauce, hell in your mouth! It provides such good butt burning heat. But when you combine both sauces with everything else, it turns into the greatest thing on earth. Heaven in a to go container! I also tried the Gyro verison which was awesome if you want the same dish in a hand held form. Honestly the greatest $6 food investment you will make! I wish LA had something epic like this. I WILL BE BACK!!!
I have NO idea why the food is so highly rated by other reviewers. ?Perhaps after all the hype, my expectations were unrealistic. ?I expected to be blown away by the food. ?If not literally blown away, I expected my mouth to be dancing from culmination of various spices and textures unimaginable. ? I finally visited the cart at the urging of my bf once cold winter night a few months back. ?It was cold so I waited in Starbucks while my bf beared the chills and the winds to wait in the queue. ?When he finally got the food, my heart was pounding with anticipation of food out of this world. The first thought I had when I opened my chicken and lamb combo was the grayness of it all. ?For some reason, I was expecting yellow rice. ?The rice, instead, was grayish white, as were the meat. ?The first impression was how bland the food looked. ?And my first bite reinforced what I feared. ?Instead of dancing tongue, my tongue was moving all right... to search for flavor!!! ?My bf encouraged me to add on the white sauce, of which he got ample helpings of. ?One little tub worth of sauce went on the meat and rice. ?Another bite of the sauced food still resulted in that missing something of flavor. ?I ended up pouring in the hot sauce (2 tubs) and total of 4 tubs of white sauce. ? And I still did NOT enjoy the food. ?I took maybe 20 bites in total and threw away the rest. I'm puzzled as to why all the rave reviews! ?Maybe it's eating the hot meal in the cold weather. ?Maybe it's the bang for the buck. ?Whatever it is, it is NOT the flavor. ?The white sauce is pretty tasteless in my mind. ?I love Middle Eastern and Mediterranean food. ?But I do NOT like Mexican food b/c I find it bland. ?And this food actually reminded me of mexican food b/c of its blandness.
You know you're a New Yorker when you've tried 53rd and Halal. I still remember this cart from my days in highschool. I've gone here for lunch, I've gone here for a late night snack. It's definitely a bang for your buck, $6 for a huge platter? Can't get any better than this, don't forget the white sauce of course and if you want a bit of spice, don't pass up on the red one either.
I think it's excellent, there's just no room for variety. Once you've had it, you've had it. There's no secret menu (a la in'n'out), there's no monthly specials, its just the 4 permutations of what you can buy. And... that's it. To be clear - those 4 permutations are all excellent. My favorite is the lamb/chicken combo over rice. And, for Jesus' sake, be careful with that red sauce. It will mess up your next day otherwise.
Recently visited NYC with a group... We LOVED this place! Their cart was right across from our hotel and probably ate their gyro platter three times in the five days we were in town. The meat was cooked well and very savory. The white sauce and hot sauce just made it even better. We will definitely seek them out in the future.
I dare you to be able to finish a serving of THG's foods. ?The portions are huge and for only $6, it's the best food deal in Manhattan. ? ?I had the gyro meat over rice with white sauce. ?The dish was hot, fresh and very tasty. ?There was no way I could finish it all though, even after spending several hours walking around NYC and working up quite an appetite. ?And as a side note, take caution about the hot sauce. ?It is extremely hot!
Yelp is not letting me capitalize my entire review. All I want to say is: there will never be a better gyro than this. BEST GYRO EVER (and I have eat a LOT of gyros in my day)
That white crack sauce is legit! We tried the chicken and lamb and I have to say the lamb is the best! Don't get discouraged by the long line because it moves quick. Get extra sauce and if you like spicy, try their red sauce. I've tried looking for a similar joint back home and my search continues. I don't think anything will come close and maybe I'll make another trip to NYC just to satisfy my cravings! Five nights in cold NYC and came here twice... Yes, it's that GOOD GOOD! The meat is finely chopped here, but it's not dry. When in line, you'll come across the drink cart first! Grab one. You'll need it if you want to wash down the spicy sauce! Better to grab it then than get in line again! You'll pay a guy once you know what you want and someone else is preparing your food at the same time!
The Halal Guys is the best meal you can get in NYC for $6. The plates are huge, enough for two. They're super popular, but the wait isn't ever too long. I recommend you "mix" it up - both the lamb and chicken are amazing! The hot sauce goes great with the white sauce, but only a tiny touch of it is needed. I say pour a dime sized amount of hot sauce at the edge of your plate for the whole meal. Without any hot sauce, I find the dish to be a little heavy. If you take your plate to stay and eat on the ledges at the side, you can get unlimited sauce from their cart!!
Yep...the hype is legit. ?Can't believe the generous portion for $6. ?I had the mixed plate and it was delicious. ?Would have liked a bit more lettuce, but everything was tasty. ?The red sauce is SO SPICY and yummy. ?Wish I travelled to NYC more.
This was perhaps some of the worst halal food that I ever had. ?I tried both their felafel and chicken sandwiches and all I got was a soggy, salty concoction with an unusual and not very good flavor that their sauces could not mask. ?Their felafel was not even fried all the way through. ?If your drunk and want some halal food at 3 in the morn then I guess this is the place to go... but as a real meal I think I'll pass.
Best drunk food ever, hands down - it's become a weekly post drinking ritual with friends!
Ate here after seeing Cinderella and man, was I happy to see reasonable prices outside of the Broadway Theater. Simply put, these guys are good. The rice is cooked and seasoned perfectly and blends beautifully with the meat. It makes good drunk food, but you certainly don't have to be drunk to have a good time with the Halal guys.
So good for the wait.
Oh boy... everything you heard is real. Very small operation based off some food carts. The line is usually around 25 people, but don't let that scare you off, it moves really quick. The way these guys work is seriously fast. The dishes have a true Middle Eastern flavour, and I know that because I lived there for more than a year. Trust me. The lamb sandwich is amazing and the plates too, but watch out for the amount of carbs included... The prices are cheap, you can get seriously stuffed for about 6 or 7 bucks. Of course, cash only and expect some rudeness from the people working there. But nobody should be surprised about that.
First time at the Halal Guys and it was extraordinary! ?Long line but moved quickly and $6.00 for a lot of tasty food. ?Use the white sauce for a great meal. ?Chicken was excellent. ?New York is very lucky to have the Halal Guys!
It's only 4 stars because of the line last time I was there - beware, they are super popular! But I've heard they recently opened a restaurant, or at least somewhere for people to sit and relax. The halal is delicious, and the white sauce tops any other halal I've ever had. In a way, it's a good thing that they have a line, or I could get fat pretty fast. They also have this cut the line thing that's super cute, although I've never bought enough to achieve it. The idea is that you come back often enough and after a certain number of times, you cut the line! Anyways, super nice :)
After a 20 minute wait in this queue we took the mix lamb and chicken. Reviews here talk about he right sauce mix and I agree.....this is the key for perfecting your experience. I went for a total cover of the white sauce and very little barbecue and Hot sauce on the side. Would come here again for sure to try the sandwiches
I did the mix chicken and lamb over rice. Great value and very filling. CAUTION - the red sauce is VERY HOT.
Pros - Copious amounts of food. Juicy lamb, fluffy rice, crunchy lettuce. Everything is fresh because they serve hundreds of people daily. The white sauce is a unique combination of mayo and yogurt (tastes a bit like ranch dressing). Red sauce is SUPER hot so be careful about the quantity you add! The line also moves very quickly, so don't be scared about waiting in line. It's also surprisingly clean. The guy who handles the money never touches the food. Cons - Pita bread isn't too great (I've been spoiled with toasted pita at other carts). Chicken is usually good, but can be dry and flavorless.
We were around Times Square and had a craving for halal truck and went to the renowned original Halal Guys. The line was intimidating, although you're through very quickly. I tried the mixed gyro and chicken over rice bowl and it was delicious!!! For $4 and $6 you CANNOT go wrong. Wanted to try the falafel but I was incredibly full. Careful, the red sauce is spicy and the aftermath can be lethal [in the bathroom]. A must try in NY!
it's legendary i don't know where to start. my opinion of this place is hurdled with skepticism in the beginning but actually tasting the food, despite the wait, is what sets it apart. it's a combo of middle east meets fusion american, this is the cart that makes people move from california to new york.
A go-to spot after a long night of partying. They have opened up several other locations so long lines can be avoided. I tend to not tell people about them but they do have them displayed on their carts...shhhh. The combo platter never fails. Just remember a dab of their hot sauce is enough but the white sauce is a whole different story.
I am not a street meat person but thought to try it to see what the rave was all about. The line was long and waited for about 15 minutes before I got to the guy in charge of the money. Ordered a mixed chicken and beef plate which cost $6. The food was okay but can't complain for $6. The hot sauce was top notch as it didn't start off as that spicy but it kicked in after a few minutes and I was sweating bullets. Again I am not a street meat person so I probably wouldn't go back again but it was worth the price.
Not a big fan of food carts, but the food here tastes heavenly!!! Lines are crazy , however move quickly, try the white sauce, easy on the hot sauce, its really "HOT".
How is it possible that a $6 food cart was my favorite meal in all of New York??? The line is crazy long but I swear to you that it is worth it. Probably the best $6 I've ever spent on food in my life. Plus, the guys are pretty efficient so the line moves fast! WARNING: The hot sauce is SO HOT, be careful! I waited in line for so long that I quickly squirted on the white and red sauce and ran to eat my food. BIG mistake. That sauce is so hot it put tears in my eyes. However, there's no way I'd let this delicious plate go to waste.. I still scarfed it down, just a little more cautiously.
halal gods!
CRACK. i can't get enough. there's a few stations and the original guys had a fallout with some of the workers so the trucks across the street are just as good, without the line !
The ONLY food you should have after you spent the night hammering yourself at a bar.
Im not a big middle eastern food fan, but this place is legit. probably the best ive ever had. there are literally hundreds of halal guys, but these guys do it right. the white sauce and red sauce are amazing. beware of red though, a little goes a long way. i ordered the place with chicken. to-go. i am glad i did. it was amazing! they are open late and the food is quick. i cant wait to come back to new york to give these guys another go!
Chicken and rice on 53 and 6th!!! These guys are legends. I have been going to them for years and they have the best halal in the city. They have two spots on the corner and there is always a long line because they are just THAT good! Even at 4am, this place is hopping. Elect to forego the salad and ask for extra white sauce. That's the only way to go.
This is a good bang for the buck street meat. The portions are huge and the line moves super fast. I've never seen this place without a long line. I usually get the combo platter (chicken & lamb) and it hits the spot. Go easy on the hot sauce because if you're not used to it, it very hot!! The food is good but not as spicy as other Halal carts. What makes them better compared to other carts is that they're not as oily.
As good as it gets for this kind of food and service!!! A def for tourists!!!
IF I COULD SHIP A YEAR SUPPLY OF THESE HOME I TOTALLY WOULD. $6 for a large plate of amazing chicken and gyro meat over rice? Best six bucks I've ever spent. I took it on the plane with me and it kept really well. I would just say if you are going to do that make sure to get the white sauce separately (they have it in small containers). We waited in a fairly long line for about 20 min at 12:30pm and I thought that once you got through half the line they're really quick. DO NOT be fooled by the Halal Guys stand on 7th Ave & 53rd, right out of the subway. It is not the same.
The Halal Guys definitely accomplish what they claim to do. They are different, the prepackaged sauces, complimentary pita bread with their rice platters, even the containers that they package the food in. The line can go up to an hour long during lunch time but that's only because of the sheer volume of people. If you can, definitely go in the afternoon to avoid the rush. The turnover in terms of how fast they get their orders out is pretty good and having different people cooking, collecting money and taking orders definitely makes the process more efficient. The actual halal food is pretty standard though. The lamb is good, not too gamey. The rice isn't the best, I would expect rice with some more depth of flavor and instead it's pretty bland. The halal cart is there even late night though so you can't really go wrong if you're looking for decent halal food.
staple in NYC
Plain and simple. It rocks! Delish!! Seriously I have to debate going to one of the trendy places I love versus just stopping on the curb for HG. Love coming to NYC and grabbing a chic and rice to go! Nom nom nom
A couple of friends and I once drove out here from Staten Island at 3 in the morning to get our fix! Nothing else would have satisfied us except for a gigantic plate of delicious, greasy, finely chopped lamb over rice (extra white sauce, please!) from Halal Guys after an amazing drunken evening (we had a designated driver, don't wry). THAT good. Also, super cheap. Line moves fairly quick. Come get it!
Hands down the best halal food in NYC! It's cheap, has huge portions (usually share a platter with someone else), snappy service (long lines move fast), and the food is fresh, delicious, seasoned perfectly with the famous white sauce! What more could I ask :p
I wish they have Halal food in SoCal. This cart has a line at 11:45 PM ?That says a lot. ?This is a way off from Time Square. ?The area is kind of deserted; from what I could remember but people purposely come to get their food. I had their chicken place at super spicy. ?I always thought I can handle spicy until I tried theirs. ?For $6, you get rice, chicken, and some sort of salad on the side. ?They give you a big serving for $6. ?The flavor is.... ?I can't find the right term. ?It's one of those experiences where you go "Wow" after the first taste. ? I think their secret is their WHITE SAUCE. ?I wanna move to New York for this. ?LOL. ?I know. ?I'm that easy.
I had my first chicken and rice platter here a few weeks ago and at first, I thought it was just pretty good but now I'm having serious withdrawal. Definitely worth $6 for the amount of food that's in the platter. I shared mine with my cousin and it was enough for the both of us. Now I regret not getting my own but now I'll just have to wait till I come back to the east coast to get another taste of this amazing food.
Some of the best street food at the best prices you'll find anywhere in Manhattan. You can get either chicken, lamb, both, or falafel over rice for $6. Falafel sandwiches are $4. The portions are very generous. You get two scoops of rice, plenty of meat, some lettuce and tomato, and a couple slices of pita. Ask for extra white sauce because it's incredibly addicting. It'll make you question your existence. All that with a drink for $8. This is not your crappy lonely hotdog cart on the Upper East Side selling old, dry hotdogs or stale kabobs to one person an hour. There always seems to be a line and they're always cooking. The line is always moving and the food is always fresh. My first time there was on a Friday afternoon and people were lined up halfway down 53rd. I stopped there again on Sunday night at 10pm and the line was just as long. As far as taste and quality, it's top notch. The falafel was crispy on the outside and soft on the inside, not dry or soggy. The meats were well seasoned and flavorful. The rice was cooked perfectly. If you're in Midtown and you need a cheap meal that doesn't skimp on quality or quantity, do yourself a big favor, wait the 10-15 minutes at Halal Guys and get some of the best street food in New York.
Amazing food for little money. A good stop after a day at MOMA, but be careful as there are two Halal Guys food trucks, so make sure to line up where there are more people. Oh, and be careful of the hot sauce, it is super spicy!!!
The Halal guys in my opinion is one of the places you must go if you are in New York. The halal cuisine culture is very strong in the city, and I believe therefore one should definitely have the experience of trying it. I rank the Halal guys 5 stars because the place is incredibly cheap and incredibly good- it is very, very worth your money if you decide to go. I would recommend you not get too much red sauce, or none at all, because it's actually much spicier than you would think. Also, the lines here can definitely get a little long, and they only take cash, so please be wary of that.
not as good as you would think...the line is as long as you can imagine but dont waste your time!
The lamb plate is very flavorful and the addition of the ranch dressing really hoes well. ?The hot sauce is very hot but the ranch help cools it a bit. ?The best thing about this cart is you get a large amount of food for 6 bucks. ?The chicken is ok but I would pass in the future.
Cheap price, lots of food, good quality. Those are all the things that make halal guys amazing. First, let me give you a warning, and I want you to pay attention because this is extremely important. !!!!!!!!!!! BEWARE THE RED SAUCE !!!!!!!!!!! Oh my goodness. On my first trip to halal guys, my foolishly foolish fool of a friend POURED the sauce over my plate. Thinking nothing of it, I let her as the more experienced new yorkers loled. After my first bite I cried. It hurt so much but it was good... but it hurt so much. I've never experienced so much pain while eating. And my leftovers gave me gastric reflux over and over again (but it was so tasty!!!) My friends and I decided that we had to come back and try the food sans hot sauce. I got the chicken and rice combination with the gyro. IT'S AMAZING. I prefer the gyro but it's nice to get a little variety on your plate :) Same price as the chicken and rice but you get two toppings! ($6 per plate aint bad... leftovers generally last me for 2 additional meals for a total of 3 meals for $6). ***Tips: - The line is long but it's not horribly long and it moves fast. - There are TWO locations near MOMA. They taste the same, but usually the line caddy corner from the museum is the shortest. - If you cross to the museum side, there are tables and chairs there. The fountain can get wet so you don't want to sit there. - If you use too much hot sauce, the blackberry mojito from the starbucks across the street is amazing and works wonders (probably because of the mint).
Amazing great grub that won't hurt your tummy and it tickles your foodie fancy
Obsessed with this place. I've been going here ever since they moved to the east village -- from cart to storefront. The place is cheap (less than $7) and gives you a good size portion. I recommend the Lamb and Rice combo.
I've been going to Halal Guys since 2006. ?Price went from $5 a platter to $6. ?They currently add onions on top of the chicken they serve. ?Make sure you tell them that you don't want onions if you don't like onions.
I have lived in NYC long enough to be very opinionated on my halal carts. After visiting dozens of them around the city multiple times, I am now able to accurately assess how good a cart is when compared to it's peers. The Halal Guys definitely has the reputation for being the best, but is it really? I say no. Is it bad? No again... it just is not the best I've had. Now for tourists visiting midtown who don't mind paying the extra dollar per plate and want to enjoy a NYC food cart experience without eating a hot-dog, the Halal Guys may be for you. The line is long at any of their carts on the 53rd and 6th corner, but it moves fast with assembly line precision. Drinks and other goodies are at a different cart. I spent about 10 minutes in line and started with about 20 people in front of me. If you are an NYC Resident experienced in Halal carts who hasn't tried The Halal Guys, maybe go just to say you have, but you could probably skip it. It's nothing special at all. Here they chop up the chicken and lamb into very, very small bits making it tougher to stay on your fork. If you get a gyro sandwich -- forgeddaboudit. Half of that those tiny lamb bits will end up on the sidewalk. Yes the white sauce is tasty, but it is tasty at every cart you go to. Yes the red sauce is nice and hot, but that is consistent everywhere too. I like my go-to cart because they sometimes throw in green peppers and grilled onions with the chicken over rice, and they don't chop the shit out of the meat. I did not see any veggies on the grill here, but maybe they were under the mountains of meat... I don't know. So if I didn't like it that much, then why did I give it 4 stars? If you follow my reviews you know I am a sucker for a great value. The $6 you spend on the chicken over rice at a Halal Guys cart nets you about 50% more food than the average cart. They serve it in a packed metal pie tin rather than a styrofoam folding box. They cram a ton of rice, meat and pita in there with only a little bit of "salad". It's really 2 meals worth of food. Without this incredible bang-for-the buck, I would have rated them 3 stars as just an average Halal Cart, but a great deal is a great deal.
great late night munchies. veggie option: falafel over rice (not vegan and may use chicken stock)
so it's been about less than a year since ive been back to this food truck. Not for any specific reason. usually hit dis place up when someone's visiting NYC and has heard of this famous "chicken & rice" spot, then the drive-by begins. Service is super quick as usual. DON'T LET THE LINE SCARE YOU. Grab ur phone, send a few texts, check few emails, b4 u know it, u better have ur order ready bc dat guy taking orders is ready to go no second less. My usual is obviously the chicken & rice. Seeing the meat being tossed around will not stir up ur cravings bc it looks flavorless and bland. BUT once everything is put into platter form with the yellow rice, few lettuce greens, and triangles of pita bread-YOUR SET. Secret is in the sauce. I would compare it to a ranch consistency. And what's chicken & rice without HOT SAUCE. Please please just try a dab 1st. I enjoy my mouth on fire & a lil sweat so I douse my plate. don't forget the sauces on the side of the cart in ketchup bottles to add to ur liking. Drinks are at a reasonable price for NYC-$2 snapple. Reason for my 3stars is bc i live in queens and it's hard to compare to our chicken & rice spots underneath the train lines with chicken that's seasoned, more grilled, not reliant on sauce to hold the flavor, one guy @ work vs 5. Are we just intrigued by the long line? Or is it just the white sauce that makes their "chicken & rice" so special?
Of course everyone talks about Halal Guys and brings it back to VA so naturally, I had to stop by. I got the chicken and rice and brought it back to VA. It was just as good as I tried it right away. The spicy sauce that comes with it is actually really spicy. I love it! It's definitely worth the price. One was enough for about 3 girls to share from after a night of drinking!
"It tastes like crack" says the guy working there. And he was right. Six dollars and you're stuffed, and you can't stop eating until it's gone. You don't have to be drunk, it tastes great sober. I shoveled it into my mouth one bite after the other like a starving refugee. I came here all three nights I was in the city. Just get the chicken. And the white sauce. ?SO GOOD.
If you eat here you will never be the same again. ?Your mouth will water at the mere mention of the word "halal". ?Every time you see a food cart your heart will sting with a burning desire. ?You will plot reasons to go to NYC just so you can swing by this food cart. ?Vivid memories of perfectly seasoned rice and meat will haunt your dreams. ?Think paella was your fav rice dish? ?Did you used to love biriyani? ?What about that authentic arroz con pollo you had once? ?No rice dish will ever be enough for you again. ?Don't go here. ?It will ruin your life.
