5	1405036800	Except for the dollar amounts, this is still true today.I'm glad it's being put on university reading lists! can't wait for it to be updated as a documentary.
3	1404604800	It was informative and so very sad
5	1404518400	Don't read this book. It will only make you angry at the Republican/Reagan future. They game is crooked. It's fixed and you are going to lose.
5	1404086400	I love this book. it's one I can read again after time has passed.
5	1403654400	I can't fathom how this book got any negative reviews.  The reviewers were probably tea party.  This is a great book on the realities of how hard it is to earn a living at minimum wage, as well as another great expose on org's like Wal Mart.
2	1402790400	I believe the author had her mind made up when she wrote the book of her month long experiment. It was not a true experiment of finding true facts, mostly a journal of what she went through in various jobs. No real evidence.  I wouldn't recommend it for reading nor would ask a class to read it.
1	1402099200	When Nickled and Dimed was first published a dozen years ago it was hailed as an instant classic.  An excerpt was reprinted in my introductory Sociology textbook, so I was delighted to find it available cheaply on a street vendor's table.  I don't think I've ever been more disappointed in a book. From the reviews, I was under the impression that Ms. Ehrenreich, a college professor, had worked incognita for a year at minimum wage jobs and that this book was the result of her experiment.  My impression was wrong.  She is deliberately vague about how long she worked at three different minimum wage jobs, but as far as I can make out, she spent about three weeks at each job and all the time she had the security of having a credit card and a vast support network if she needed it.  The book is, quite simply, a fraud.  To her, Poverty was a mere vacation theme park: Povertyland!  The experience did not change her at all; it only confirmed what she already thought, which was her sole reason for the alleged experiment in the first place: the minimum-wage worker's lot is a lousy one.The book reads more like a propaganda tract to raise the minimum wage.  The language of propaganda is clich&eacute;.  In this book one clich&eacute; doth tread upon another's heels.  Her alleged "experience" is just an excuse to drop in a few cherry-picked statistics that confirm what she knew to begin with.  She fills the blanks between statistics with minutiae.What I hated most about the book was her attitude toward her co-workers.  Here's how she polishes off a co-worker at Wal-Mart:  "I learn, in a couple of hours of scattered exchanges, that Melissa was a waitress before this job, that her husband  works in construction and her children are grown.  There have been some disorganized patches in her life--an out-of-wedlock child, a problem with alcohol and drugs--but that's all over now that she has given her life to Christ."  How dare the working poor seek comfort or happiness in something stupid like religion?  Doesn't she know that "religion is the opiate of the people"?  At one point the author actually goes to a tent revival meeting in Florida, not for spiritual help, but to scoff and ridicule.Ms. Ehrenreich seems genuinely upset when the reality of the lives of the working poor does not conform to her textbook Marxist perceptions.  She is so brainwashed that she is incapable of seeing what's right in front of her.  For example, the Indian American owner of a motel where she lives has an immigrant Indian wife who can barely speak English.  Rather than try to know the real woman, Ehrenreich quotes a fellow academic who is an alleged expert on "Indian American immigrant women" and gives the reader an account of the typical woman of this type.  Everyone is just a type to her.  She cannot understand why her fellow workers do not want to go on strike and form a union.  Why can't these people be good little Marxists and hate somebody?!Ehrenreich toots her own horn all through the book and is always ready with an excuse for her lack of competence or veracity.  At one point she makes a deal with some "friends" (probably former friends by now) to stay in their home in exchange for caring for their cockatiel.  As the pet owners surely must have emphasized, cockatiels require almost constant attention.  They are the most abandoned of all birds that people get as pets.  They were not meant to be pets.  They cannot be left alone to sit on a perch all day.  When she does not fulfill her end of the agreement, she attributes the bird's horrible self-mutilation to it's being a stupid bird, rather than the lack of attention that it desperately needed.  She has pretty much the same attitude toward everything.She ends the book with the words: "Someday, of course--and I will make no predictions as to exactly when--they are bound to tire of getting so little in return and to demand to be paid what they're worth.  There'll be a lot of anger when that day comes, and strikes and disruption.  But the sky will not fall, and we will all be better off for it in the end."  Ah, viva the glorious revolution.  She doesn't seem to understand that if such a revolution were to occur, she and her smug ilk would be the first ones to get shot.I came to absolutely loathe Ms. Ehrenreich by the end of the book.  I hope the next time I see her name in print that it's an obituary.
2	1402012800	Although I can appreciate her stated altruistic reasons for embarking upon the books journey, that is more than negated by her flippant way of dealing with the poor and refusal to take any actual risk during her social experiment. She refuses to give up her car (which poor people obviously have the option of doing), has the constant assurance of her bank account to fall back on (the poor should get with the program and have one of those), and is often dismissive of the people she comes in contact with while slumming it. There was a lot of potential in this project, but it might take someone willing to take more risks before I'll come on board.
5	1401062400	This journalist, presenting herself as a woefully unskilled home-maker returning to the job market, spent three months, each month in a different city, trying to earn enough to live.Barbara found that the basic jobs of fast food preparation and waitressing, clothing store assistant, cleaner, care home worker and so on were tiring, heavy and poorly paid.  As someone who needed to find accommodation she spent wages on motel rooms which did not have a kettle or fridge, or any means of cooking. So she had to buy cooked food and she set a teabag in ice cubes overnight to make iced tea for morning.Overall Barbara found that it took two jobs minimum to live indoors.  A third job was required if you wanted to buy reduced price clothes on the Wal-Mart sales rack. Many co-workers were in such straits as living in a car, unable to take a day off to go to a dental checkup because they would lose pay, having to take a job with a meal and uniform provided.  These were mature people with no hope of improvement. There was also almost nothing to do for free or cheap on a Sunday, except go to a church or church-run social event in one town.This book is well written and very readable, occasionally hilarious but often saddening. We should all read it and ask why we value workers so poorly, or allow big stores and chains to value their skills so poorly.
4	1400630400	There, but for the grace of God, go I.I think I will never complain about my job ever again. This book really shines a light on the plight of the working poor in this country. The story is not so much about the experience of the author as she attempts to live on a minimum wage salary, but the story of those she encounters along the way. Barbara Ehrenreich freely admits that she can't possibly have an authentic experience simply because she DOES have a place to go back to, a safety net to catch her if she falls; something those she works with can only dream of. She also doesn't even qualify for certain types of jobs in some areas of the country because she has the advantage of being white and a native English speaker.Barbara Ehrenreich conducted her economic experiment in the 1990's when the economy was still in fairly good shape, at least it was as far as availability of low wage jobs were concerned. She talks about struggling to pay for gas at &#34;almost $2 a gal.&#34; If only. The struggles of the low wage worker has only increased since then.Availability of affordable housing is her major problem during her economic experiment. Many low wage workers end up living in their car or $40-$60 dollar a night motel rooms because they can't get enough money ahead to pay a deposit and first and last month's rent on an apartment. This also means that these &#34;working&#34; poor end up eating fast food meals which are unhealthy and an expensive way to eat, simply because they don't have the means to cook their own food. Gas prices again come into play when you consider that any sort of affordable living arrangement will most likely be miles away from the better paying and better tipping jobs.The bottom line is that low wage workers in this country are little better than slave labor, and giant, wealthy corporations, like Wal Mart, want to keep it that way. They take advantage of people living in a desperate situation, and then structure the work environment to make sure the situation stays desperate.The poor are not lazy. They are the ones who sacrifice their home life, children, health, everything, to flip your burgers, to clean your hotel or home, and pick-up after you at Wal Mart. In short, they sacrifice their lives so everyone else can have a better one.No, low wage workers will not be &#34;shocked&#34; to read about the living conditions of the &#34;working poor.&#34; Unfortunately, the more affluent among us tend not to &#34;see&#34; or &#34;think about&#34; those who do the very important menial labor that keeps all of us going. This is a wake up call. I think many people rationalize that there must be something &#34;wrong&#34; with poor people, other wise they wouldn't be poor. This is because no one wants to think that they could end up in similar circumstances.
3	1400630400	I had to read this book for a class I was taking.  It was interesting, but boring.  Definitely don't want to end up as a minimum wage worker after reading this (not that I did before).
3	1400284800	After reading some reviews I was not sure how I would feel about this book (which I read for school).  However, I thought she nails the issue of low wages and the plight of those trying to live with those earnings.  What I didn't like is the way she attacked anyone who was a supervisor or manager.  How could she possibly understand their job when she worked at the various places only for a very short time, only a month.  Another aspect of the book which I felt was not necessary was the racist remarks......I believe this book was needed to bring this issue into the public eye and I'm for one glad she wrote it, even though I don't really consider her as having really lived like  those she wrote about.  Her experiences were fake, she knew she had money to fall back on, she never really had to &#34;worry&#34; as so many do.  She even called a doctor and basically demanded a prescription for a rash......  Something no working poor could have done.  They would have suffered until they could no longer take it, then they would have seen a doctor....which they probably would have lost time from work and money.  The trickle down affect their housing, food, etc.The generosity and compassion she received from those she worked alongside, even the very short time they knew her, was a testament about the goodness of people.
4	1400198400	I read this book for my online creative writing course.I think I've learned what I wanted to learn from it. As far as the content itself. The people on the right of the political spectrum will not like it, people on the left will.
4	1399248000	This book can really give people a perspective about the struggles of some families in America that you might not have thought about.
1	1399075200	An ala carte trip through poverty -  she can't grasp how she came up short - and those that praise this book are wearing the same blinders.  There are a lot of very insightful reviews here, lists of the ways Ehrenrich missed her mark,  I won't repeat them  - there are lots of very well expressed feedback.
1	1398729600	Only some upper middle class white person would even THINK that this book needed to be written. I am so pleased that Barbara could take her little poverty vacation and make tons of money telling the stories of people who will never see a dime of it or get a chance to escape from this life. Poor Barbara had to cut herself off from her credit cards for a little bit and it geez it was so tough...but the people whose lives and privacy she invaded....there is no escape. THIS IS THEIR LIFE. FOREVER. ALWAYS. Everyone in this country who didn't grow up entitled (the majority of us) know damn well that you can't survive on minimum wage. Barbara tells her nice little stories while everyone else is stuck working three jobs just to make ends meet, just to pay rent and get some food on the table. I'm just so disgusted with this book I can't even properly put it into words.
3	1398729600	It is okay.
4	1398297600	This is still the bible on living on minimum wage. We hear that it's hard. But this lays out the painful details of why it's so hard.
5	1397952000	Words cannot express how excited I was to find this book. I found it at the good will store, and being perennial low wage earner despite my education and experience it spoke to my current situation in life. She really hits the nail on the head with the difficulty of finding adequate housing at an AFFORDABLE price when living on 7 to 10 dollars an hour. I also love the part about the way that customers treated her. I work at a fast food place and you cannot believe how badly we get treated and even more how they and people that have &#34;real&#34; jobs look down upon us. If you knew how much we go through to get you your burger so quickly, you might think twice about eating out.In her adventures she always brings up the question of &#34;why don't they just get a better job?&#34; She points out that better paying jobs are relatively close and easy to find, yet her coworkers simply don't go for them. Near the end of the book she finally realizes that there are many, upon many, reasons that these people don't move. They might just be trading the devil they know for one they don't. The flow of cash is not as instant as you'd like. It might cost more in bus fare or gas to get to that better paying job. The job you have is so incredibly tiresome that you go home only to collapse in bed and wait for the next shift. She doesn't go over the incredible problem with depression and the complete lack of help for it, but that is also not reason.She ends the book with the prediction that one day the low wage workers will rise up and rebel and demand to be paid what they are worth. I certainly hope so, but with my experience, we are just too tired and worn out to have the energy to start another impossible fight. I am extremely happy that she brings up the fact that hard work is NOT the answer to everything. If people were paid according to how hard they worked there would be a lot of people trading places.My hope is that people will read this book and realize how incredibly hard some people are working and how little they are getting paid. I hope that you realize how many businesses are robbing their employees blind. That rich men are getting richer off the sweat, degradation, and desperation of low wage earners. Please realize that when you buy a burger at a fast food restaurant that the lions share of your money goes in to some fat cats pocket, and the person that so desperately needs it the most only gets a few pennies. Realize that they are there out of desperation and many times lack the resources to pull themselves up the ladder. I have sworn off fast food, not because it's unhealthy, but because it's immoral. Now if only I could find a way to rid myself of the need for retail giants...
5	1397865600	This book was a great read filled with down-to-earth real life circumstances of low wage workers!  Barbara does a great job at bringing what's in the dark for many to the light...
5	1397433600	This book had a HUGE impact on my life. This is one of the books that made me want to become a journalist. Read this, you will not regret it!
5	1397001600	its exactly as it should have been. nothing wrong with anything. i cant give it a lower rating cause nothing went wrong and nothing was wrong. It was exactly what i wanted.
3	1396742400	This book is very interesting overall and I'd say worth reading. I starts out with what I thought would be a very minimal bias, which is necessary on the author's part or she wouldn't even know to ask the question, but it does show a pretty liberal bent which either living through the experience created or enhanced, or was repressed in the beginning chapters to keep less liberal types reading. Anyway, I think the points made are the same. Today in 2014 the issue is more on the radar of the average citizen than ever but the dynamics have changed greatly. Other than a very few boom times WW2 and maybe the early to mid 50's the problems discussed here seem to be the "baseline" of existence. The default human condition is poverty. Circumstances of birth and location can change that obviously but I'm just saying. The big issue is opportunity cannot be forced on anyone whether receiving or the folks being asked to pay more, give more and accept more of the burden to make the opportunity available. Anyway......it's worth reading. The most tedious part is the evaluation at the end but even that is worth a slightly focused skim. We can after reading, go back about our business I guess.
5	1396396800	Important, compelling! I'm in awe of Ehrenreich's commitment to social justice and determination to make a difference in this country.
2	1395705600	This book is like a giant complaint.With no solution. umm Read Rich Dad poor Dad or Intelligent investor monk who sold his ferrari . These books would be more useful for someone who wants to help themselves or improve wants more in life.
1	1395705600	Not only is this book a waste of time, it is literally a waste of tree derived paper product. Terrible.
5	1395705600	The book is a must read for anyone interested in a real evaluation of what it's like to be poor in America. It's a serious book that will change your mind. I don't think that anyone who reads this book will ever tip less than 20% unless they have a very good reason to do so.It's more important than that, though. It shows you the real conditions under which many of our  poor work.The author is certainly one of the bravest women I have ever read.
5	1395100800	I bought this book a couple of years ago and could not put it down.  Today as I was going through my list of products I hadn't reviewed yet and saw this book, I remembered immediately what it was about and how much I enjoyed it.  That's rare for me because usually I don't remember books much after reading them, but this one made quite an impression.
4	1395100800	I have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed Nickel and Dimed not just for its very accurate portrayal of life down here in the parallel world of poverty but for underscoring the fact that education, intelligence, and bourgeoisie sensibilities can't protect you from being sucked into it. It's bad news for some of us and almost heretical for those who need to believe that only the very lazy or impossibly stupid can't navigate themselves out. Clearly some of the highly critical reviews are coming from the crowd that still has a little something something and is offended more by the awareness of their own vulnerability than by the demeanor of the author, who happens to be laugh out loud hilarious.Speaking of heretical, this book doesn't get five stars  because comments concerning our Lord and Savior were not only inaccurate and offensive but undermined her credibility; not because she is Godless, but because she claims to be an atheist while ferociously attacking something she claims doesn't exist. Unfortunately, this stance made her look more like a cartoonish lefty instead of the objective journalist.  It's too bad the author chose the low road because she might have had something that transcended the same old nonsense just by leaving a few ill-chosen remarks out. I won't even go into the nagging impression that she's really posting a public cry for help while publicly validating her very own E ticket to Hell.I still recommend this book for those of you who enjoy stellar writing and persuasive wit.
5	1394323200	This book should be a must read for all in our our schools and universities. The poor are being driven deeper into the hole while the rich  get richer.  Our society has lost its moral compass.
5	1394150400	Great book and great seller and interesting readings relating to labour in the united states. The book is written in a simple and easy to read format
1	1393718400	I ordered the new version of Nickel and Dimed by Louise Ehrenrich.  The book took 17 days to arrive and it was the wrong version of the book, not the one I ordered.  I received it 4 days before my book club met, so I could not return it, and had to read it. I could not follow some of the reference that were discussed because they were not in the old version.  I am very disappointed.  I will never purchase from this vendor again.
4	1393372800	This is evdience of how Americans are struggling. It could have been 10, 15 years ago, but more so in today's economic uncertainty.
4	1393286400	This is an important documentary that will reach very few people, especially those who could do anything about it.  It is disgraceful to realize so many of our nations major employers are so callous and greedy.
4	1392768000	Thank you for providing me a nice book at a good price. I'm enjoying the book on the bus to school and home.
5	1392681600	this book was required for my social organization in the workplace class but this is something everyone should read whether academically or for leisure.
4	1392422400	I like that she included other peoples stories but I think she gave herself more advantages than the people she included in the story had. It was good investigative writing but she really should have immersed herself a bit more,  in my opinion.
1	1392163200	I found this book to be offensive both to minimum-wage workers and to their bosses.  I read this only as an assignment.  The premise of the experiment -- go underground to find out what it's like to be a low-wage worker--gets blown out of the water almost immediately.  Ms. Ehrenreich starts her experiment with a car and over $1,000, and she went home in between her three gigs for a month at a time. She even blew off the eexperiment when she was treated by her own doctor for a skin rash.  I believe she said something like, Forget this!  I'm going to my own doctor.The worst part of the book is the language she uses to describe the "other," calling home owners the Owning Class and fascist Americans.  The low-wage earners were also "others" -- One particularly offensive remark was about aspiring to become "trailer trash."I have no expertise in this topic so I don't know what to recommend for those interested in the learning about the continuation of wage inequality, but there must be many other books that would be better than this one.
5	1391472000	This was a great book, and we need more like it!  People need to understand that minimum wage is not a living salary!
4	1390780800	For anyone who thinks that it's possible to live on a minimum wage, let alone live in any sort of comfort, this book should be required reading. It honestly explores the struggles gone through by millions of people every day: Trying to find housing they can afford, and still manage to afford other essentials like food; trying to deal with severe medical problems with no insurance and no extra money to spare; attempting to secure some sort of help in a desperate state to allow you to eat; and trying to eke out some sort of real life on minimum wage. The minimum wage in this country is absolutely pathetic when combined with our poor amount of resources used to truly help the poor (particularly compared to other countries, such as much of Western Europe). Housing costs are high, while the minimum wage is not rising remotely fast enough in comparison. Forget dinners out, trips to movies, or even renting a DVD for an evening's entertainment. It's all far out of your budget. Instead, try to imagine scraping together pennies to try to come up with the money for your housing, and still possibly not having enough for even the cheapest place. So, what do you do? Get another job? Even if you can find one that fits your schedule, how many hours can you really keep going in a day? Then, add in the most basic expenses of food, essential travel, and such, and you're basically already out of money before that's even covered, with nothing to spare for emergencies or even to cover a day of missed work due to illness. Barbara Ehrenreich does a great job in this book of taking us into a world many of us have never seen, but which millions struggle in every day. A world of four people in a room, counting every penny, and working until you collapse, then getting up and getting back to work because you can't afford not to. A world where internet access or cable TV at home are luxuries that can only be dreamed of, because even a $7 Wal-Mart t-shirt is too expensive. A world where a single medical bill, or other unexpected critical expense, can literally tip you immediately over the line between just getting by and homelessness. A world that, if more of us were truly aware of it, could perhaps be changed. I highly recommend this book.
5	1390780800	I loved this book, in the sense that I thought the author did an excellent job examining what it's really like to try and earn a living on the crap wages offered by many retailers and hospitality organizations. It's a complete refutation of the American myth that 'anyone can make it in this country if they work hard enough'. Okay, I already knew 'wage slaves' work much harder than the rest of us but I never had it laid out so baldly. Ehrenreich covers waitressing, nursing aide, maid, and working at a very large superstore and continually struggles with making ends meet, trying to find an affordable & safe place to live (pick one) as well as eating healthily (not happenin'.)Some of the criticisms of the book are spot on - she always knew she could go back to her cushy upper-middle-class life, she cheated and went to her own doctor rather than sufficing with whatever she could afford at the pharmacy, and she sure didn't try this experiment sans car. But those are minor nits in an otherwise sterling experiment in examining whether the working poor are just lazy slackers, as their critics allege, or whether they really are held back by government and society.In fact, my biggest criticism is that Ehrenreich didn't really touch much on how the abuse of &#34;low-skilled&#34; workers persists not just because of greedy corporations, but because of greedy higher classes who are more than happy to have people work as near-slaves in Third World sweatshops, and their own kind to work in conditions that aren't much better, with rampant violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and the corporate world's pathological hatred of unions, all so they can buy a $7 shirt at you-know-where.She writes about her co-workers with much sympathy and concern, and what I found particularly enlightening is her examination of how her attitude about herself changed over the course of the project. How she felt her self-esteem slip, how she caught a glimpse of a life without a real future, how she was stuck treading water constantly, never making any progress in getting out of the poverty rathole. She backs up her experiences with copious references to numerous policy studies of what the lives of the working poor are really like.I understand this book is required reading on college campuses and that it makes conservatives' eyes bleed. If for no other reason, you should buy it and talk about it at Thanksgiving with that idiot relative (we all have one) who watches too much Fox News and is always shooting his or her mouth off about the parasitical poor. :)
5	1390435200	Exactly what I needed for school. Great resources that I think I will continue to use in my practice. Yay
5	1389916800	I've seen complaints of her (self-confessed) dilletantism, but that seems to be missing the point. The fact is, is that a lot of people she met in the course of her investigations have neither the time, the energy, nor the publishing connections to speak for themselves. She admits her own shortcomings (repeatedly, and perhaps excessively) in the course of the book, and has little but praise for her co-workers in the Evaluation chapter at the end of the book.As for her criticism of managers: anyone with two brain cells to rub together (and not necessarily formally educated), who has worked at a blue collar job, has felt their intelligence insulted (on more than one occasion) by people in mid-level management.If I have one criticism, it would be that she spends a bit &lt;i>too&lt;/i> much time talking about her own problems, and does not seem to explore in very much depth that of others. I understand that she was using herself as something of a lab rat, but still...
3	1389657600	The author shares great insights into how difficult it can be to survive in America on minimum wage, and how hard so many people work for so little.  She gets a bit preachy at the, offering unions and living wage ordinances as the panacea.
3	1389225600	There is no doubt whatsoever that Barbara Ehrenreich had great intentions and an awesome subject scoped out for this book Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America. How unfortunate that Barbara Ehrenreich comes across in this book as bitter and condescending to everyone her low paid peers and uppercrust &#34;Owner Class&#34; customers and business owners as well.  She is also dead wrong about some of her &#34;Assumptions regards Maids&#34;.  I am a disabled man with autism.  I make good money working for a living but, their is NO way I am rich and I am certainly not of the, &#34;OWNING CLASS&#34; as she describes it.  Yet twice a month I employ a maid to come to my home and tidy up doing those things I can easily do myself due to disability.I pay $10 an hour to the company for lite cleaning of my tiny home.  My maid bill comes to about $220 per month which I can easily afford.  Barbara Ehrenreich makes those who subscribe to a maid service seem like uncaring monsters.  For sure there are people who have money who think it gives them the right to treat others like dirt and worse but they are mean people to begin with.  Money does not change people for better or worse.  Money merely amplifies the pre-existing good or evil in the human heart.Wallmart is simply paying wages people are willing to accept in exchange for their labor.  Drug tests are a vital part of any stores anti shoplifting strategy.  Management puts all manner of controls in place to prevent time theft which makes sense.  If the world were this perfect liberal Utopia we could all leave our doors unlocked, leave out money ungarded and throw care to the wind.  Stores and businesses must be aggressive in managing waste because the bad people in the world don't have a plaid cloud over their heads with the words bad person flashing in white neon.Barbara Ehrenreich certainly writes this book from her position of moral and intellectual superiority as she reminds us of her PhD and rarified place in society so many times.  I get the impression that Barbara Ehrenreich looks down on people making $100K a year as rich wantabe upstarts. Barbara Ehrenreich is clueless about living on low wages because pots, pans, clothes all in good repair can be had for pennies on the dollar if you know where to shop. Was Barbara Ehrenreich too proud to get a thift store collared shirt, a used pot if she were really living as the working poor do she would have lost that superior pride ages ago.I remember living on SSI at $240.00 a month in 1980. I used to eat pancakes and soy burgers for dinner some nights.  Generic Mac & Chesse, Gov't Butter \ Cheese with broke up Soy Burgers mixed in. Cooked in an iron pot.  Might have cost me $4.00 total and I was living high on the hog back then. Some really good rich people used to give me their old pots, pans, TV's when I fixed their computers or did other odd jobs.  Maybe if Barbara Ehrenreich had been a little nicer and more human and compassionate to the people she worked with and for they may have returned the kindness.  I might be far better off today but back when I was dirt poor, I was still a nice kind hearted person.  Even in poverty I tried to see the best in all people, businesses and situations and for my efforts I was rewarded with a life that was not so bad.  I never starved, I never had my utilities turned off and I rode the bus everywhere I needed to go and survived.  Being disabled I did not drive during my poverty.The book is good only because it gives enough of an honest insight to the challenges of life faced by the working poor.  Unfortunately the experience of the spoiled clueless condescending author often gets in the way of the story.  Barbara Ehrenreich comes across as bitter, mean hearted, anti capitalist socialist bore but, if you can look past her rants the rest of the book is quite good.
4	1388707200	The author presents a realistic and unfortunately overlooked life style  that forces too many Americans into just barely survival mode.  It becomes more complicated when  children are involved.  They grow up not knowing any other way of life.  A survival of the fittest , youngest and ablest.  An honest look at the raw side of life.
5	1388620800	I read this the first time 10 years ago, and promptly forgot the title. Over the years I've told friends about this book I read...This weekend I mentioned it again and looked it up on Google. I am so glad I did. This book is still relevant, possibly even more so. It changed my perspective on the chronic poor. A great read.
5	1388534400	This was required reading for a college English course I was enrolled in. It's impact on my outlook on poverty and the social issues our country faces will never leave me.
1	1388361600	This is literally one of the worst books I've ever read.It's basically about a spoiled journalist going to live as a poor person and she complains the whole time about how hard it is. I don't have sympathy for her. The story would have touched my heart if I was reading about an actual poor persons hard times, not some lady who can leave to her beautiful home any time she wanted.Terribly written. Terrible all over.Had to buy this for a sociology class and wrote a paper on exactly why I thought it was terrible.
4	1388275200	As I was reading Nickled and Dimed, I was looking for a place explaining how the working-poor really live day to day. I found this at the end of the book in the Evaluation. My rating of the book went from about three stars to over four upon reading the Evaluation. I must say, this book was not an &#8220;eye-opener&#8221; for me since I have actually lived on both sides of the fence. Everything that is written about the working-poor is true. I could stand on my soap box and scream the injustice to these people&#8212;but instead I invite you to read Nickled and Dimed for yourself and really take in everything that is written. You will never look at the low-wage earner the same again.
2	1387843200	This book presumes to tell us what is wrong with America and the working poor. As many state the author is quite condescending towards the poor and towards the poor's employers.But like most she fails to nail the most essential peg on the board &#8211; the government's contribution to creating the poor. How does it do this?It creates the working poor by sucking the value out of money that they earn by inflation. I graduated high school in 1976 and the prevailing wage was four dollars an hour. On that four dollars an hour you could rent a home, buy a car, eat well, and have money left over for any entertainment you wished if you watched your pennies.Today money is worth so little, double those earnings can't even sustain rent payments which drives this massive government redistribution structure to take from the rich and give to the poor. This only exacerbates the problem by creating government bureaucrats that must be paid by somebody.Nobody wants to take the responsibility where it lays with the Fed and the government inflating the money supply and in essence stealing from all of us. There's a calculation you can do and at just 3% inflation the money you hold today will be worth half what it is in buying power in just a few years.If minimum wage had kept up with inflation it would be pegged at $30-$40 an hour now to give commensurate buying power to what a dollar would by in 1972 when Nixon floated the dollar off the gold standard.So let's get the left-wing ideology out of the way and get to the true causality of the problem. When government can print money and pay its bills the money we hold becomes worthless and we're seeing that today at an ever accelerated pace.This piffle of a book only gnaws around the very edges of the problem and fails to see the causality that drives what's going on. This is expected from a left-wing leaning journalist who believes that government is the solution to the problem government creates.For my part of it can I have my three hours back it took to read this book?
4	1387497600	I don't think it's all that mind-blowing to think that there are a lot of people working for the late-1990's equivalent of $7 per hour or that this isn't really enough to attain a decent standard of living. Maybe SOME people's minds are blown by that, but not most people's I don't think. However, as non-mind-blowing as it is to think about waiting tables or working at Wal-Mart, it's still pretty interesting to read about the ins and outs of people's lives illuminated by the fact that working your tail off time and a half will not guarantee you enough money to LIVE INDOORS, much less work your way into the middle class. Good-quality writing, too.
5	1386979200	Exactly as described - shipped quickly - the packaging was not wasteful which I appreciate.  I wish all college kids were required to read this book.  It changed my life.
3	1386720000	This was an update of the last version and provided a little twist to the information given by Barbara Ehrenreich
1	1386547200	Book is terrible sob story, but I had to buy it for library. My child was forced to read it for school and she lost it.
1	1386374400	had to read it for my AP english and it was pure torture! the narrator does nothing but complain, really boring and i don't recommend you read it unless you have to
5	1386288000	I read this book many years ago and just yesterday I was recommending it to a friend who was shocked when he found out that the cleaning service he used was keeping the tips from the workers, when he had included it in the check. The cleaning lady gathered her nerve and asked him why he had only tipped her once in the last 4 visits. That is when he realized that the boss was not passing it on to them. When he discreetly questioned the cleaning service owner, the cleaning lady was never seen again.This stuff that Barbara wrote about does happen every day. I&#8217;m shocked at all the bad reviews some individuals have given. All I can say is that unless you are one of the poor ones, you have no right to criticize her attempt at blowing the lid on the subject. Did you leave your home and do what she attempted to do? Maybe some of you are disappointed by the way she did it or perhaps think she didn&#8217;t do enough, or whatever. It&#8217;s easy to criticize while you are sitting at home watching TV while some one is cleaning your house or served your food at a restaurant, while Barbara got up and went out and tried to make a difference.I liked the book very much and the point to me was to write an expose and she did just that. I read this book more than 8 years ago and today, in 2013 minimum wage and lack of insurance is just as bad as described in the book.Barbara, thanks for having the courage to have done this. I gave my friend the copy of your book.
1	1386201600	Barbara Ehrenrech misses the bar in this book.  She carries the perspective of an upper middle class American into the ghetto, complains about how she is treated because she has no real incentive to take the difficulties poor people overlook if they are serious about escaping from poverty.  I have personally experienced many of the things she complains bitterly about, but I took it in a stride, because I knew that escape was going to be difficult, require diligence, learn from difficulties with faith that I could achieve the American dream.It seems the author targeted an audience that had never experienced poverty.  Of course, it will play to the heartstrings of those who have always lived a comfortable life.  But this perspective is BADLY mistaken.  People CAN and DO escape from the ghetto IF THEY ARE COMMITTED TO DO SO!  The only ones that cannot escape are those who have physical or mental problems that keep them from working, contributing.A far better book and one I recommend for a fairer perspective is &#34;Scratch Beginnings: Me, $25 And The Search For The American Dream.&#34;  Like Ehrenrech, he left comfortable surroundings, lived in a homeless shelter, had the same experiences, but the difference was HE WAS DETERMINED TO ESCAPE.  Ehrenrech was determined to remain in squalor and complain.I hated this book.
4	1385856000	An incredible study on our current situation and life as a nation under the thumb of corporate and litigious choices made over the past sixty years that place anyone under the upper class in the vice of near poverty.  We are squeezed by a labor market that manages to place a premium on college education, but anyone who is unlucky enough to have a high school diploma or less are hampered by a world that ignores the general scope of their existence.  Where it gets even more complicated is in the ten or fifteen years since this book was originally published as the market for everything eventually dried up and everyone was left to stumble.  I have no idea what this book means today in the face of college educated unemployed searching around for any sort of semblance of sense or employment, and the top 1% still manages to be the focus of our lawmakers and I haven&#8217;t seen much of any increase in pay for the lowest of our employees&#8230;  The economy made no sense when this book was published, every nickel and dime a stretch for many workers, but the cycle of poverty has spun out of control and become an absolute monster.Buttoning this book up this week, Thanksgiving 2013 as Anonymous protests Walmarts around the country and close to 200 nonviolent protesters were arrested and scores fired from their jobs whose practices they criticized by exercising their first amendment rights, has just been an interesting experience.  I saw myself in these pages, as a retail employee, waiter, bartender, and everything but a cleaning person&#8230;  I will say this: we are in big trouble very soon if things do not change.  If the lawmakers and businesses don&#8217;t, trust me, the people will make it happen.Ehrenreich wrote an incredible book, and it is no surprise that it had won so many awards and accolades.  It is incredible, classic investigative journalism that you don&#8217;t see much anymore.  The beauty comes in the way she writes, creative nonfiction that reflects the era in its cynicism, brutality, humor, irony, and its ultimate optimism.  It is an incredible book, accessible to all audiences.
3	1384905600	The author humorously describes the challenges of securing and working at low-paying jobs.  The book comes up a bit short in the sense that the author has additional resources to fall back on and she doesn't juggle outstanding school loans or other debt in addition to just housing & food/necessity expenses.  It's an honest attempt, but I'm not sure anyone can capture how dire it feels to be in these circumstances without a safety net.
5	1384732800	Every civic entity that is considering issues that affect the poor should be required to read this book. Especially the 1 per centers who think they made it to the top on their own.
1	1383177600	A friend bought this book for me. I read it hoping to learn about what the book is supposed to be about: Whether it is possible to survive as a member of the working poor in America. What I got instead was a mean-spirited diatribe.Let me be clear that my criticism is not that Ehrenreich's THESIS STATEMENT is wrong. For all I know, it might be. What I'm saying is that you'll never know whether or not it is true from reading this book. That's because throughout the book Ehrenreich quotes Marx and Mao, insults the various characters she meets behind their backs, and consistently works to undermine her own success.Just when you think her attitude cannot get any worse, Ehrenreich writes what is perhaps the most offensive statement I have ever read from an American author: &#34;abortion is wasted on the unborn.&#34; I cannot fathom what would possess a person to write such a nasty, pernicious thing, regardless of what one's views on abortion rights happen to be.If you want to learn about poverty, choose another book. This one is just mean-spirited.
4	1382832000	the book has some stains but it is readable. needed it for a class so it was what I wanted
3	1382832000	Greenwich can say until blue in her face how there is injustice among the poor not receiving enough money to live on and I believe that there are more factors to consider than just her opinion.
5	1382400000	Purchased the book/ books for a school, and it will be a good addition for the high/ junior high school library.
1	1382140800	I picked this book up today at a garage sale for $.50.  I read the first twenty pages just now and threw it away.  Garbage.  "I'm going to go live like lowincome people but not really."  Yuck book for many reasons.
5	1382054400	Needed for Phi Theta Kappa Honors in Action Project for financial responsibility of the American people.  Good reference source book.
1	1381363200	Although Barbara Ehrenreich is an atheist (probably the main requirement for being a Marxist), she does at least recognize three major sins: Being Christian, wealthy and conservative.  She has what I would call an almost pathological hatred of wealth belonging to people whose Marxist views she does not share.  When cleaning the home of a wealthy client, finding books of conservative ideas on the shelves drove her to conniptions.  We defeated Nazism, hatred based on race, and Communism, hatred based upon class, the two major tyranies of the 20th century.  What we didn't defeat were the impulses of hatred and intolerance directed toward spiritual belief in Creator God, individual worth and initiative, private property and the idea that one has the right to achieve whatever level of personal wealth one is able to achieve.  All these impulses animated the Soviet Union for 80 years until its collapse toward the end of the century, but live on in microcosm in people like Ehrenreich whom I call Little Soviets, stalking about like the living dead trying to reanimate a corpse.
3	1381104000	The first part where she describes her attempts to make a living at minimum wages jobs is good. I think it gives some good insight into what low wage workers are dealing with. You can tell she has some bias, but it doesn't become a problem until the second part, which is an extreme left diatribe against income inequality. I think income inequality is a serious problem, but I also think she goes overboard trying to make a case against it. If you start looking at her end notes you start to see all sorts of problems with her arguments.And I'm astounded that she never got a roommate. She's always talking about the problems of housing costs, but insists on living alone. I like living alone myself, but if I was forced to work low wage jobs I'd get a roommate.
5	1380758400	The book does an excellent job of presenting the problems and the realities of those working the jobs at the bottom of the pay scale. It is an eye-opener for anyone who is unfamiliar with the lives of those in these positions.
2	1380672000	The shipping was late and the book is in condition. The description of the way book looked was exaclty how looked which was a plus
4	1379980800	The book held my interest. I needed it for a book group selection. It has shown me that trying to live on a minimum wage income is not impossible, but certainly nearly so.
5	1379980800	Do not dismiss the message of this book because it's a few years old. The current global economic crisis is eating away at many of the workers' rights and the magic mantra of creating jobs (even if they don't pay enough) is putting millions of people at risk of what's described here so vividly and clearly. Having a job is not an end per se; it's a means towards creating a life worth living for yourself and your loved ones. Let us never forget that.
5	1379635200	What can I say about this book? When I started reading it I was as appalled and shocked with the introduction as one might expect, she is going to give up her PH.D high salary lifestyle to go "mingle" with the minimum wage world so she can try to find some secret economy about the poor and than write a book about it? Sounded like a complete waste of time nonetheless demeaning like the poor was s disease that she was going to do research on. However as I got further into the book I knew that my concepts were going to change about her.The longer you stare into the abyss the longer it stares back at you, in chapter 1 of Nickel and Dimed Barbara Ehrenreich author of the book was preparing to set off into an adventure that eventually turns a bit out of hand. Ehrenreich in need of a minimum wage job to start off everything had filled out 22 applicants for jobs and none of them called back leaving the impression that the employers simply put in the advertisement solely as a "filler" to replace the ones that are going to quit or get fired. Having read this first chapter I could tell already this journey of Ehrenreich is going to be a lot more grueling than she signed up for, seeing as how they treat their employees as expendable workers with no skills. Ehrenreich in return had no choice but to accept a job as a waitress, a job that she didn't want to take seeing as how she already was one when she was 18 and did not much enjoy the job, however Ehrenreich soon realizes that the job was more than a job and she soon felt responsible for delivering the food to the customers in need and soon starts to bond with them in her workplace. The accountability for the customers Ehrenreich served soon escalated as she picked up the tab for a customer who spent most of his money on dental surgery wanting them to be happy, Ehrenreich states ""If you seek happiness for yourself you will never find it. Only when you seek happiness for others will it come to you", (20). It's as though this job is starting to grow on her and becoming a part of her very nature and instilling morals in her. After reading the first chapter of this book I am appalled and amazed at this, It reinforces everything of my ideals and philosophy as I believe that working hard and doing manual labor instills great morals and responsibility into a person and trains that person to appreciate things in their life more, not less. Ehrenreich soon finds out that there is no secret economy to the poor and their whole life is horrifying compared to her old one and even now she is well-off than most of her co-workers who are living in trailer parks or in their cars in front of a parking lot. What endows me with adrenaline even more was reading that when Ehrenreich tried to return to her old life to catch up on things, she soon realized she wasn't the same person anymore, the foreshadowing of her life that has been flipped is amazing. How I feel is that these workers are like everyday people and once you get to know them they become a part of you just like everybody else. In the end of all of this Ehrenreich only felt failure, she states "I am in a position to realize, for the first time in many years, that the tear ducts are still there and still capable of doing their job", (48) the thought going through her mind as she quitted both her jobs in a semi-dramatic fashion and soon came into the realization that she was human just as much as anybody else.- Jamie Huynh Review
3	1379548800	This book was originally written more than 20 years ago and it feels dated. I ended up not finishing it.
4	1379462400	I thought the writer did a good job of opening my eyes to the problems a low paying job creates.  The rich get richer and the poor pay the freight.  Good Book!
5	1379289600	This was definitely an eye opener for me. I knew that the working poor had it bad, but I didn't realize how bad they really had it. For anyone who thinks that people who are getting assistance don't work hard, they really need to read this book. They do work harder than most people ever would, for little pay.
2	1378771200	I would never read this book or recommend it if I hadn't been forced to read it for a class. The whole book is based on a social experiment that is seriously flawed from day one, so how could I take it seriously? Also, if you want to hear about how unfair, racist, and corporate, America is, turn on NBC or CNN instead of reading this.
5	1378339200	This book, although it was written more than 10 years ago hits my thought processes in restaurants, hotels and stores every day now. I read it about 2 months ago, and, in the time since, we've seen work actions by fast food workers and by Walmart employees. Barbara showed how impossible it is to live on the current minimum wage. I thought about her experiences yesterday when the cleaning crew was here and I think about those experiences when people are complaining about their server in a restaurant. It's an excellent, well thought out book.
4	1378252800	A great deal, you basically gave me this book and still got it to me in under a week. THANKS.
5	1377561600	This book was very enlightening. I learned a lo from it and the rest of America could do the same by reading it.
3	1377561600	Ehrenreich's 2001 investigation into the lives of the working poor can occasionally feel a bit elitist. She is only a visitor to this world know matter the jobs she took or the living conditions she places herself in; there is always the knowledge that she will be able to go back to her "real" life. But the message is conveyed clearly enough; many people in America are barely getting by. Ehrenreich writes clearly and concisely about the struggles of living on the minimum wage pay that many of our service based industries in America base there pay scale on. In for a particularly critical look is Wal-Mart, with its corporate structure designed to keep costs low at the expense of its employees, it creates generations of workers who barely can afford to buy goods at the stores that employs them. This should be required reading of anyone in a position of legislative authority who thinks people are taking advantage of "the system" and that the minimum wage is too high.Far from perfect but sadly, this book still has as much validity today as it did in 2001.
3	1377475200	It was ok, I guess. If you enjoy novels about economics and such. I give it a 3 star review.
5	1377475200	this was a book needed for school and the customer service experience made it easy to obtain. great job. thanks.
1	1377388800	I thought this was hands down the worst book ever. So boring. Hated it. I would not advise anyone to read it
4	1376784000	I liked this book because it provided a clear picture of what service and other poorly paid workers must endure just to survive.  It demonstrates at what cost to others come the comforts most of us enjoy.
1	1376352000	I have had to read this book twice, it is an adventure in &#34;life of the poor&#34; tourism...a PHD in Science decides to make minimum wage for a few months and report her findings as if they are sociological revelations. She starts from the beginning completely out of whack with her experiment...&#34;I dont want to work at a hotel, it involves too much standing&#34; &#34;I dont want to be a waitress because I remember that being hard when I was young&#34; She eventually does these things but on the bottom line, she chooses where she works and does the entire experiment without the concern of hitting rock bottom and not being able to afford food and a roof over her head because she can just fall back into her real life. The lack of the real world consequences for running out of money is the lack of the essential concern for all those who make low wages. Not only this....but the author was sued for improper use of the cover photo that she didnt have the rights to use!
5	1375833600	The haters here have panned this book, much to my surprise. I can only conclude that they are not ideologically aligned enough with the author to accept her message. She comes across as Marxist, even though she absolutely benefits from our version of capitalism. I appreciate that she is very forward regarding the many caveats that impeded her experiment, even if some restraints were self-imposed or the result of an imperfect design. I also relate to her assessment of low-wage work, after working as an adult for fast food, convenience stores, telemarketing, and grocery stores. Even though I make much better money now (at the grocery store), I still see the low-wage motif played out on a daily basis in my company. Earlier this year one of my clerks, married, older, had to seek out food assistance due to his pitiful paycheck. In essence, my job as manager is to ride the fence between upper management (corporate) and the proletariat. And just like she points out in the book, I have to drive 28 miles from my working class town to an &uuml;ber-rich enclave where my store is located. Anyway, I could go on and on, but let me tell you from someone who has a deep resentment for the wealthy and especially for the system that allows such disparate incomes: Barb is spot-on in her assessment. After just finishing A People's History Of The United States by Howard Zinn, this was a refreshing chaser that reinforced the narrative of a government that exists only for the ruling elite. If anything has ever been won, it is only after people literally had to die before the government would throw a bone to pacify the unrest in hopes of maintaining the economic heirarchy status quo. Read up on the history of organized labor and tell me I'm wrong. Oh, and the bit about low-wage workers being the real philanthropists is insightful beyond description.
4	1375833600	This book does make good points about the socioeconomic disparity between classes but considering that the book was written in pre-recession times it seems outdated.
5	1375142400	Very inspirational book! Used this for a Sociology class and actually loved it. It is so easy to comprehend and a book that is an eye opener for the society.
4	1374451200	This book has become something of a standard among sociology students. If you want some idea of what it's like to live on minimum wage, as millions of Americans do, this is a very readable profile of what that might look like. I know Ehrenreich has taken a lot of heat for never really being desperate (she had the safety net of a bank account, an editor, and a life apart from her experiment), she does her best job in simulating the experience.
5	1374364800	It's a pretty interesting book, Barbara writes very well and keeps you glued to every page.Obviously, you should form your own conclusions about subjects such as these, but this is a very well written and highly interesting book that shines a light on how hard it is to get by for so many people in the US.
5	1374019200	Even though I purchased it as &#34;used&#34; the book was entirely new, the spine wasn't even cracked! Worth it obviously, now that I can mark it and highlight it as I wish.
4	1373760000	This book provides some insights into those who rely solely on the generosity of patrons for their living.  I have known people who look upon restaurant servers and others who are remunerated by tips as people they may demean, insult, be demanding and unreasonable.  It takes great humility to serve in these roles and I for one respect the patience and forbearance of those who do it well despite the insulting behavior of some patrons.
5	1373587200	Great insight into how the people that didn't attend college are forced to live.  Have recommended this book to many.
4	1373587200	To her credit I am extremely grateful that she did the book in general, and particularly satisfied that she took the time to mention the poor diets of the maids she worked with and the ridiculous behavior of the customers that used the cleaning service.  I am sure Nickel and Dimed was enlightening to many, however, excluding herself from the inconvenience of diet, housing, and transport restrictions that people living under the minimum wage regime suffer totally changed her experience from being poor incarnate to kind of looming near the poor and guessing what they were going through while translating their complaints.
5	1373155200	This was a great book. Easy read and interesting. Would definitely recommend it to anyone who can related to working low wage jobs and the hardships that come along with it.
1	1373068800	Read: 7/13Rate: 1/57/13: I read Nickel and Dimed (shouldn't the title be Nickeled and Dimed?) around the time the book was released and remembered that I didn't like it. Today, I am wondering why that I did not. Lo and behold, the introduction reminds me of it. It is this "holier-than-thou" superiority that the author conveyed at the beginning pages that put me off and this incredibility stupidity and naivety about how she handled things and in terms of the parameters that she set for her experiment. As you know, once the parameters have been set that do not mimic the conditions in the most realistic way, the experiment is no longer valid. And that's what happened with the rest of Nickel and Dimed. Everything was invalid. Instead of bitching and moaning about the situation, she gave it up and moved onto the next one repeatedly. And it was only for a couple of weeks or less. It's incredibly hard for an educated person, beyond a college degree, to work on menial jobs and not overthink about it. It's how nature is. The rest of the others who do are perfectly content in doing them because they don't think as much as college educated people do. Or if they are not content, they really don't have a choice and are, in fact, in dire straits and must make ends to meet no matter what. That's something that is not a compelling factor in the author's experiment. Hence, it's easier for her to bitch and moan about her situation and try to rationalize about it without being trapped by the additional factors. It has become insulting to me that the author tried to save her co-workers by fighting lack of intelligence with intelligence. What does she care? She is only there for a couple of weeks or less while everybody else is there for the long haul. It's all they have, and they have no choice but to put up with it. Meanwhile, instead of living with people (which is the most basic way of saving money in rent and utilities; the more roommates, the better), she decided to live on her own, contributing the failure to her so-called "experiment." There are contradictions in her statements throughout the book. For example, in page 7, she says, "In addition to being mobile and unencumbered, I am probably in a lot better health than most members of the long-term low-wage workforce," and then later she says, in page 13, "I'm decades of varicosities and back pain beyond (that now)." Believe it or not, there is a great deal of many low-wage workers who are in an excellent shape because their jobs require a lot of physical work (hence, the term "blue collar"). In fact, the white collar workers can also be as bad of a shape as their blue collar peers. There are so many salaried jobs, i.e. being a teacher, that are hell on the body and mind and that include a lot of standing up and/or sitting down with very little else physical activity in between. The author has become a hypocrite when she laments about people with money when in fact she has money. What make her better than them, huh? Finally, no matter how much money is being made, it really depends on needs and the cost of them. So, the author's definition of "poor" is misleading and contradictory. Just because one makes $12,000 a year doesn't necessarily makes him poor; it just depends on the living situation. Perhaps the house is fully owned, and the car is also fully owned. There could be almost nothing else to pay for except for common bills. Of course, add in the factor of "living with others." Compare that to a person who makes $45,000 a year who drives an Escalade, owns a huge house, and has a boatload of furniture, electrical stuff, and the common necessities. At the same time, he is probably paying thousands per month to the principal and interest on borrowed credit. In the long run, he is essentially a slave to the debt cycle which makes him totally penurious. So, no...the author fails to prove her point, and no...she isn't that street-smart either. All in all, Nickel and Dimed showed me plenty of how stupid the author is.
5	1373068800	I BUY MULTIPLES OF THIS BOOK TO GIVE AWAY.  YEARS AGO IT WAS REQUIRED READING OF ALL INCOMING FRESHMEN AT UNC - CHAPEL HILL.  I READ IT TO SEE WHAT ALL THE FUSS WAS ABOUT.  IT SHOULD BE REQUIRED READING FROM SIXTH GRADE FORWARD, WITH A COMPENTENCY TEST AT END OF GRADES NINE THROUGH 12!!!
5	1372636800	Content Summary:  The author, Barbara Ehrenreich, chooses as a socio-economic experiment to live on low wage jobs, in three locations:  as a waitress in Florida, as a maid in Maine, and as a Wal-Mart "associate" in Minnesota.  She augments her income with some other work, but comes to appreciate the painful difficulty of making ends meet on wages that are really below living standards.  Mostly she finds that rent is hard to pay, and wages generally insufficient.Critical Review:  Ehrenreich's book is vividly descriptive about the plight of the working class.  Reading through it initially it didn't quite meet my expectations, which were admittedly high.  I had thought of giving it 4 stars, but her analysis and conclusion at the end (mostly that rents are too high and wages not enough) convinced me to give it the 5 star rating.  I think this is an illuminating work, and we need to have a more comfortable and frank discussion of the "caste" of the American class system.  In a word, inequality matters, and is important.  Ehrenreich illuminates one dimension of that inequality.
5	1371859200	This woman has guts- she left her comfortable life in Florida (just for a few months, but still) to see what life was like living on minimum wage. This should be a required reading for everyone, just to see how hard living can be for people who can't afford a college education, and how common stories like the ones in this book really are.
5	1371686400	I am very pleased with this purchase.  This was the first time I purchased on-line. Will continue to purchase in this manor.
5	1371513600	AFTER I read this one, I got all the others. This one is the beat. She really gets it. A family member is a server in a local restaurant, I have a different perspective on that life.
3	1371427200	Barbara Ehrenreich's account of her attempt to live like one of the many struggling low-wage workers of the late 90s has a concept that both grabs popular attention and carries significant social, political, and economic weight. The story of her troubles and, by extension, those of the lower-class of Americans, needed someone to tell it. I would go so far as to say that it is important to the future of the nation for more of the middle and upper-class to understand how the poor are forced to live. And while the sales figures, controversy, and lasting popularity of Nickel and Dimed show that it must have gotten its point across to some degree, I'm left disappointed in Ehrenreich's half-hearted effort within the experiment and the crude and judgmental side of her that comes out through her writing.The core of the book consists of Ehrenreich's experiences in a few archetypal "unskilled" jobs and the difficulties of housing and food that come with them. These make for a very good, almost expos&eacute;-like exploration of how people get stuck in those situations, and how dire they really are. I felt like, going in to the book, I had a fairly good idea of the challenges that faced poor laborers. But I was only familiar with the rural lower-class in my small hometown, where housing was much less of an issue. The few apartment buildings we had always came with refrigerators and kitchens and were cheaper. I had never known of the problems of food storage and cooking or how the near impossibility of coming up with a deposit and a month's rent ahead of time leaves outrageous weekly or daily payments as the only choice. These aspects were shocking to me, so for the parts of the audience more affluent than my middle-class family they must have been seriously disturbing. Ehrenreich finishes with an "Evaluation" chapter that puts numbers to the problem, in a good statistical discussion that caps the book's themes and calls us to action.But it turns out to be very hard to buy into this type of message when the author herself often doesn't seem to care as much as she implores us to. On the first page of the introduction she tells us how she didn't want to do this experiment herself to begin with. This attitude seems to stay with her throughout the rest of the book.  She gives herself a set of ground rules including always taking the highest-paying job and the cheapest housing, and never using her higher education or other advantages in order to land a job. At least she's honest when she then admits that "all of them were bent or broken at some time" (p. 4). She also makes several allowances for herself that her coworkers could not: she will always have a car, paid for with credit card instead of her earnings; she won't go homeless for any period of time; and she will never have to skip a meal. It must have been comforting for her to know that she was never in danger of actually going through any of the things that most strongly characterize the plight of the low-wage laborer. Not only does Ehrenreich consistently fail to actually make ends meet concerning her earnings compared to food and rent, it never really seems like she tries. The fact that millions of people have made and continue to make this work calls into question whether the author was really trying all along, or if she had resigned to her failure from the start. Maybe it would have been better to assign this to a younger journalist, as Ehrenreich suggested, who would care that the other workers can't just walk out of their job, or call their private dermatologist, or pay most of their rent with money from their "real life."The other part I take issue with is the style in which the author tells her story. It really puzzles me how someone who is ostensibly trying to give a voice to lower-class Americans could be so out of touch. Her attempts at what I can only assume is meant to be "edgy" racial remarks fall so flat as to verge on offensive. When she repeatedly refers to a group of Latinos of indeterminate origin as "Mexican Americans" (p. 67) or jokes that Maine's largely white population would be more likely to "treat one another real nice" (p. 52) than other races, it echoes the old lady everyone knows who still uses racial slurs because she's "from a different time." Another instance in which she melodramatically describes being stared at while at the supermarket wearing her extremely bright-colored maid outfit gives her, in her mind, "a tiny glimpse of what it would be like to be black" (p. 100). I cringe not knowing if she's just not nearly as funny as she thinks she is or if she really has some outdated racial views. Speaking of melodrama, I would have to guess that Ehrenreich had never cleaned a toilet before her maid job. The overwrought, needlessly disgusting description she gives of "a crust of brown on the rim of a toilet seat, where a turd happened to collide on its dive to the water" (p. 92)  stands out among the many unnecessary digressions throughout the book that just make me ask "Why?" Add to these examples her resentful, angsty, high-school atheist jabs at Christianity and her hateful grudges against the elderly she feeds and the children in her department at Wal-Mart, and you get the feeling that Ehrenreich may just be a spiteful woman. It seems sometimes that above all, she just wants to tell her own story, and is studying the poor like another species (as her Ph.D. in biology may have trained her to do).Through all these complaints, however, the bottom line still comes through in the end. Much more effective than a study stating "Rent is too high, wages are too low," the book gives a thought-provoking look into what is, for most of the readers, a different world. For all I know, the occasional confusing racial remark and condescension may make it more relatable for an upper-class audience. But for a book that often stops to point out the acts of genuine kindness and support that allow these people to rely on each other in the hardest of their perpetual hard times, it fails to effectively humanize them for the average reader.
4	1371427200	Ehrenreich Ehrenreich was taking a experiment to reveals what is happening on working poor, who are struggling on paid rent and loan, not just sitting behind the table to review statistically and demographic data, instead, she worked like a low-wage worker and wrote down what she has seen and thought.  I think Nickel and Dimed is a great book, I would like give it four point out of five stars since the Nickel and Dimed provide vivid details to depict how minimum wage job application process violate human rights.  Drug test, multiple-choice "interviews", and personality tests are some process that minimum wage job finders will go through, which Ehrenreich thinks those processes are unpleasant and prejudge people. However, she changed her attitude toward drug tests and personality tests. Why would she do that? The Nickel and Deimed may be able to answer the question: people who do not have enough education, no skill, have to work what they got even the job application process are so offensive. Moreover, The Nickel and Dimed reveals a fact that harsh working condition changes one's personality.Initially, Ms. Ehrenreich felt so sick about drug testing, she refuses to take Winn-Dixie's job offer because it required a drug testing; she refuses to take it since the job is only $6 hourly and she felt it was humiliating to " squat down and pee in front of health worker"(14 Ehrenreich). She does not realize that not taking drug tests is one of privilege of the middle class. According to the data from Nickel and Dimed, eighty-one percent of employers are asking to take drug tests preemployment. Why would Ehrenreich think she is the exception of taking tests? Because she had a PhD degree in Rockefeller University and was assistant professor at the State University of New York, Ms. Ehrenreich might never have taken drug test before. People assume she is a responsible and professional person and will be working in a sober state just because she got a Ph. D degree. Many people think she is condescending on this part. She has privilege of not taking tests, and she will be able to chose one of her favorite job among many minimum wage job. People who are struggling at minimum wage job may be mad at her because they do not have many choices as she has. But I am happy to see her attitude change as the experiment went through. She changes her attitude to drug testing when she was working at Hearthside family restaurant. One day Phillip, the assistant manager, announced he got a report of some " drug activity" on night shift, all employee were informed that new hiring employee will take mandatory drug tests and current employees may take the test randomly as well. Ms. Ehrenreich did not stand against the "management decisions" this time, she was toking up in the ladies room couples times. So she does not have the courage to go against the decision and she need the job  to balance the debt. After Ms. Ehrenreich worked at Florida and Maine, she seems less condescending on job hunting and became more "initiative" in the interview and even takes a cleanse course to detox her marijuana in order to pass drug test. When she was taking the drug test, it is indeed uncomfortable because you have to pee inside while you realized someone waited outside and is going to take your urine to "judge" you"approve/disapprove". But I think the writer is over reactive sometime, when she took second test, the tester asked her to leave her purse in prevent testee sprinkle some drug-dissolving substance into the urine. It is normal procedure, not about the trust or not. Ehrenreich felt offensive.Personality test is design for testing how well the potential employee will fit in the organization, but Ms. Ehrenreich found the trick to pass the test: zero tolerance vis-a-visThe obvious "crimes": drug use and theft but to leave a little wiggle room elsewhere, just so it doesn' look like she is faking the test" (124). She knows how to make the personality seem more real and so does the employer. It leaves the reader a question: Why do some big companies design personality tests which seems tricky and almost everyone will lie on the test? I believe Ehrenreich wants to reveal the fact that personality tests are just a tool to tell future employees what should they do as a compliant worker. It seems like employers notify employee to stay quiet and compliant and manageable.For example, statements on the Wal-Mart survey: "Ther is room in every corporation for a nonconformist" (135). It is a statement that Wal-Mart informs future employee, who disagree the statement may not be hired. It is a implicit employee "role" rather than a survey question. You know the right answer is "disagree" and once you answer "agree" you will follow the rule in future. No matter how much you want to write "totally disagree", you have to answer "agree" in order to get the job.I'm also happy to see Ms. Ehrenreich's transformation during three experiences. It mans that she is less condescending to lower class and being closer to the life of minimum wage job. But I also feel sad about the transformation. The factor change Ms. Ehrenreich's personality can also change lower class people and they can not go back their "normal" life as Ehrenreich can do, it leave them no opportunity in reality. From Ms. Ehrenreich's work experience in Herarthside and Wal-mart, she examines her inner transformation, which can bring a conclusion to reader that harsh working condition change personality. When she worked at jerry's restaurant, a dishwasher attempted to steal in dry=storage room and got caught. Vic told Ehrenreich that George has been caught, a poor Czech dishwasher who used to study English from Ehrenreich. Ehrenreich did not defend George or attempt to intervene in order to save Geroge's job. Ehrenreich realizes that she is moderately brave, but she did not announce why she did not stand up to against the unfair management decision. I guess many low-wage workers may make the same decision as Ehrenreich. They don't have much choice to go against authority. They have to pay the rent or they have to obey the untold "culture" in worse working environments: Mind your own business. Ehrenreich finds out she become meaner person after working over ten hours in Wal-Mart. When she saw a young fellow sit in a wheelchair and look sad, the first thing that came to her mind was "at least you get to sit down"(168). What makes Ehrenreich more mean and sly? Maybe the harsh working condition. After working over ten hours, you don't have the patience with customers. You turn out to be more mean than you used to be.After I finished the book, I would say the book brings different insight about minimum wage works even though the writer's attitude seems so condescending sometimes. However, she changes a lor from Florida to Minnesota, and more understandable to lower class lifestyle. Beside, she gives me some idea about how harsh working conditions reshape one's attitude and transform one's personality.
3	1371427200	When Barbara Ehrenreich dropped herself into the low-wage working world in Nickel and Dimed, she herself acknowledged the experiment's flaw. In her introduction she describes herself as an older, white, English speaking woman with a Ph.D. In biology-- all things she sees as advantages in trying to find a minimum wage job. Despite Ehrenreich's acknowledgment of her favorable position, it still remains the largest problem in the book. Ehrenreich, simply based on who she is, cannot represent the working class no matter how hard she tries. While the book offers some valuable insight into the struggles of the working class, we are never given as much as we could get simply because Ehrenreich rambles, wanders, and sets rules that expose her true social status and muddy the experiment.When Ehrenreich first sets out to find a job, she sets some rules for herself. She decides that she will only work certain kinds of jobs and refuses to go without a car. It's understandable why she would not want to resort to public transportation or find a job digging ditches, but these decisions raise issues because many workers don't have these choices to make. Some people are forced by their circumstances to resort to public transportation and back-breaking labor. Right off the bat Ehrenreich has lost these people as readers and has failed to give them a voice.In place of the voices of these tragic working class heroes we are subjected instead to the voice of Barbara Ehrenreich. For the first part of the book she seems to be likeable enough, just based on her noble goal of trying to understand working class society. As I kept reading, however, I found Ehrenreich's ranting, constant complaining, and pitiful attempts at humor to be off-putting. She makes a number of tasteless remarks regarding race, abortion, and Christianity that not only aren't funny, but aren't even relevant or necessary. When moving to Maine , for example, she comments that "maybe when you give white people a whole state to themselves , they treat each other real nice." These kinds of comments pop up so much that it's hard to ignore, and her comments on Christianity seem like they were lazily thrown in just because Ehrenreich felt like being controversial.While applying for jobs, Ehrenreich exposes many of the flaws of her experiment. The applications themselves are often made to pick out disadvantaged people like single mothers and ask questions with obvious answers such as "Do you think some people work better when they're high?" that are pathetic attempts to weed out the "unworthy." What's more is that she finds the low pay is not reflective of the amount of work done and the difficulty of that work. She finds herself exhausted after working hours past her schedule as a maid and has trouble trying to find time for much else besides work. The biggest problem she finds herself facing, though, is money. She finds it impossible to survive on minimum wage and by the end of the book can no longer afford to continue the experiment and abandons it.Her ability to abandon the experiment and return to her normal life is a luxury that can't be ignored. She is not a native of the working class world, but merely a tourist capturing snapshots of the environment. The problem is that it's hard to forget about the fact that at any time she can buy a plane ticket and leave. What happens to a real Wal-Mart employee who can't afford to pay rent? They're forced to find cheaper living or try desperately to find a higher paying job. They might even end up homeless. Throughout the book, Ehrenreich dips her toes into the lives of her coworkers, but never seems to fully dive in. For example, we learn a little about Gail, a fellow waitress who is stuck living with a terrible roommate due to her conditions and recently had a boyfriend in prison who was murdered. We also get to meet Caroline, a woman who moved to Florida with almost no money and supported herself and her children. These are the kinds of people that deserve to be heard more but are unfortunately transformed into mere background noise. Readers will have a better picture of working class America if they see as many examples as possible, and these stories have a much greater emotional impact than Ehrenreich making a joke about how she understands what it's like to be black. Furthermore, if Ehrenreich can't make it by herself even in the most ideal of situations for this experiment, then how does someone make it with two kids or the emotional stress that comes with an unfortunate living situation?I'm not saying that Ehrenreich should not have attempted the experiment. Her attempt at getting a closer look at the working class world is admirable if nothing else, and Ehrenreich understands her own position and the advantages she has. Considering that this is an unavoidable problem for her, the experiment was a success. If Ehrenreich can't make it in her circumstances then it makes us wonder if anyone can make it at all. We as readers, however, need to see these other people that are trying to make it. Readers would be better served if, while still performing her experiment, Ehrenreich tried harder to delve into the lives of her coworkers because, for them, being a maid or a waitress and trying to survive is not just an experiment, but their lives.
3	1371340800	After reading this book, I have many mixed feelings about the content inside of it. I didn't hate it, but I couldn't make myself love it either. The book does show how hard working for minimum wage can be from other people's prospective, but Ehrenreich never grasps the full feeling for herself.  Although Ehrenreich's experiment on trying to live off of low paying minimum wage jobs was a good idea, her efforts, attitude, and stereotypical views produced a negative effect on the project and didn't completely fulfill what it's truly like to live off of minimum wage. I give her full credit for trying because I personally don't think I would be able to perform this experiment for myself and I think a lot of other people would agree with me. With her being from the middle class and already having a well-paying job and a college education, it would be extremely hard to take a complete turn and give all of that away when she really didn't need to. Her heart was in the right place, but the idea was not properly executed.As someone who has worked a minimum wage job for two years and who knows many people who work low paying jobs to get by, I found it rather offensive the way she categorized the people who have no other choice but to perform these jobs daily. She stated in the beginning of the book that people who work low paying minimum wage jobs are uneducated and unskilled. From my personal experience, I find this to be very inaccurate. This is very stereotypical of her, to judge people because of their job title. Ehrenreich not only stereotypes the workers based on their education level, but also makes many racist remarks throughout the book trying to be funny. Not only are these "jokes" uncalled for, but they seem to pin point particular races in the lower class. On page 100 of the book she is grocery shopping after work in her maid uniform she feels as if people are starring at her and judging her because she is a maid. She then goes on to say "But it's the brilliant green and yellow uniform that gives me away, like prison clothes on a fugitive. Maybe, it occurs to me, I'm getting a glimpse of what it would be like to be black." Commenting on someone's race and clearly saying that black people stand out of a crowd and people automatically judge them because of their skin color is out of line and unfair.The biggest fault that I have with this book is the effort that Ehrenreich did not exert into this experiment. She knew going into this experiment that it was hard to live off of minimum wage, so she knew that if at any point in time things got too rough she could always quit and go back to her own, normal life and be completely fine. She even says at the very beginning of the book on page 5 that she will never go without a car, without a meal, and without a place to sleep at night. She always has a secret stash of money on her just in case she needs it. This is not how people working for minimum wage live. They don't have a secret stash of money they can just pull out whenever times are getting too overwhelming. Sometimes they might have to miss a meal. They don't have the options like she gave herself while performing this experiment which doesn't give her the full effect of what it's like to live off of such low income. She also didn't put in full effort during her work experiences. She did everything she needed to do in order to satisfy her employers, but she didn't work as hard as she should have, because once again she knew she didn't need to. For example, she didn't take a higher paying job at Menards because the shifts were eleven hours long instead of six or eight. She states on page 149, "The embarrassing truth is that I am just too exhausted to work, especially for eleven hours in a row." People who desperately need money and have a family to support and other mouths to feed would have taken this job in an instant, even if it meant doing something they didn't want to for eleven hours on their feet. The one job I will give her credit for trying and putting in more effort than she needed to was the maid job in Maine. She not only did her job in cleaning houses but she also helped out other people and did their part for them as well. This was the one time in the book that I felt she was actually trying. Other than that chapter, her effort towards the whole experiment was more negative than positive.The author's attitude during the whole experiment was also very negative. At the very beginning she presented the experiment idea to an editor as a good idea for someone else to do. She never wanted to be the one who had to carry this experiment out, the editor made her do it. From the very beginning she had a poor attitude towards the whole thing. She also presented an attitude during the whole book as if she was better than the other employees working beside her. I understand that she has a college degree and a good job in her normal life, but for these few months she should have completely forgot about that and lived this life just as her fellow coworkers had to.After the experiment, I feel like Ehrenreich's perspective on the lower working class didn't change as much as before she started the experiment. She knew going into it that people who work these minimum wage jobs struggle to get by and by doing this experiment she lived it for herself. She didn't really go into depth and detail to learn more or to get a better feel for what it would actually be like. I wish that Ehrenreich would have followed up the experiment by interviewing a family who lives off of minimum wage or shadowing someone for a couple days who works for minimum wage so she could have better grasped the concept of the struggle that many Americans have to face daily. I would have liked this book to show more praise and respect for the people who help our society and work hard every day in order to survive and to help others.From cover to cover, Ehrenreich writes a well written and attention grabbing story. She is writing to a very broad audience and I believe her work experiences are detailed enough to entertain anyone. She is a brave, strong willed and well-educated woman and those dynamic characteristics are showcased within her writing. This makes her a very respectable person from the reader's stand point. The facts presented in the book on extremely interesting and eye opening and really put it into prospective on how hard it is to live off of minimum wage. Not only did her experiment make me a more humble person, but it also made me gain more respect for those people working two minimum wage jobs a day and barely getting by in America. Ehrenreich presents very controversial issues throughout this book, and even though I found more arguments within the text than agreements, I would still recommend this book for a good read to understand what it is like "on NOT getting by in America."
3	1371340800	Nickel and Dimed is the story of a wealthy journalist trying to live as a low-wage worker. She gives up her affluent lifestyle and lives in three different cities where she tries to support herself on any job she can find. I applaud Ehrenreich for the fact she went out and conducted this experiment, only I think she could have made improvements to the experiment as well as altered the presentation of the material. The narrative was interesting enough, but my biggest critiques were Ehrenreich's attitude and her attempts at humor.Her original purpose was to find out "how does anyone live on the wages available to the unskilled" (1). From the very start, her experiment could have been altered to improve the story. Survival is not enough. It is already obvious that survival on low paying jobs is possible, because otherwise a sizable chunk of our population would have already died out. It is hard to say whether or not Ehrenreich was successful in her experiment. Sure, she survived the three months of poverty, but is that enough? Did her experiment reveal any new information? Before reading this book, one could safely assume living on minimum wage would be difficult. If nothing new was learned, what is the point of reading the book? I think Nickel and Dimed would be more effective if she had changed her intention from the start. Her goal was to portray her experience as an unskilled worker, but that is unrealistic. Ehrenreich's dabbling in poverty was much different than the average lower class worker. There were numerous times where she used her "emergency funds," and never had to skip a meal or know hunger. There is a point in the book where one of her coworkers cannot afford buy lunch, so no lunch is eaten. If Ehrenreich's survival depended on it, she would have been willing to raise the stakes for the experiment. Ehrenreich's report is flawed from the start because she never fully commits to the life of a low-income worker.Throughout the book, Ehrenreich's attitude is as though she is removed from the lower classes. She admits to being "the imitation, the pallid, child-free pretender" (131). She is never fully immersed in the experiment because her attitude of superiority is apparent at all times. Only after finishing experiment and returning to her normal life does she realize her bias. Her attitude prevented her from fully experiencing poverty, but I wonder if it was also because the experiment was not long enough. I bet her viewpoint on the lower classes would be much different if she had taken an entire year surviving on a low wage job. When she reveals her true identity to her coworkers, they are mostly indifferent. The truth is, there IS no difference between the social classes. People are people, regardless of how much money they make.Ehrenreich's narrative is interesting and easy to follow, although at times her attempts at humor are a stretch. Perhaps it is because this book is over a decade old already, but I found some of her jokes a bit off-putting. I found Ehrenreich to be disrespectful towards Christians, and a bit racist at times. As an atheist, she goes to a church's tent revival for "entertainment" (66). She sort of slips this jab at Christianity for no reason. This book is meant to be about the maladies of our social structuring, so why does she deem it necessary to throw these punches? The only explanation I can think of is that it was an attempt at humor, but that doesn't justify anything. One would not openly laugh at a mosque, so why is it ok to ridicule another religion? I found Ehrenreich to also be a little racist. She claims to get "a tiny glimpse of what it would be like to be black" (100) after working a minimum-wage job. You CAN'T just say something like that. That is implying that all black people work low-paying jobs. Earlier in the book, she posits, "when you give white people a whole state to themselves, they treat one another real nice" (52). I'm hoping this is just an attempt at humor, and she doesn't realize how politically incorrect that is. Taking the author into context is important when reading this book. She is from an older generation that may joke about things that we find inappropriate.Overall, I am ambivalent about this book. I feel that some parts are effective while other aspects fall short. Ehrenreich certainly accomplished her goal; she survived after working various minimum-wage jobs. But is that enough? I think this book would have been better if she had attempted to succeed on a low-income job rather than just surviving. Surviving is doable while thriving is almost impossible. I think this would give the book a more interesting approach. This book tells Ehrenreich's personal experience with poverty, which is not the same for everyone. Rather than presenting an individual case study, this book may have been more impactful if she had tried to show what poverty was like for everyone. That would give people a chance to feel represented and would show an accurate portrayal of minimum wage workers.  I also found Ehrenreich's presentation to be off-putting. I understand that her stabs at race and religion are meant to be humorous; I just think she could have done without them. I gave this book only 2.5 out of 5 stars because I did not really learn anything new from it. After reading the cover, I got an idea of exactly how this book would read. Just by glancing at the cover, I was able to divulge that Ehrenreich would attempt to live as a low-wage worker and would fail. Did she really mean to give away the whole story just from the front cover?  Did some grand revelation or "eureka moment" happen after reading this book? No. Instead, it just reaffirmed the idea that living on a minimum wage job extremely difficult.
4	1371340800	I began reading Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed with an already strong interest in social justice and worker's rights.  Having studied the likes of the IWW and the criminalization of poverty, I had high hopes for "the old-fashioned kind of journalism" (pg. 1) that Ehrenreich mentions in her Introduction of the book.  While I applaud Ehrenreich for exposing injustices that become the backbone of Nickel and Dimed - worker exploitation and worse, the implications of systemic economic oppression, I was disappointed that she didn't do more to highlight the agency of low wage workers who are actively involved in efforts to improve their own circumstances.From the beginning Ehrenreich makes clear her intentions for the book: "My aim here was...just to see whether I could match income to expenses, as the truly poor attempt to do every day." (pg.6) In her process of trying to make ends meet by working low paying jobs she uncovers exploitation of employees, both by their employers and by the customers they are servicing.  A prime example of this is Walmart's notion of "time theft" (pg. 146, 158) which forbids restroom usage on company time, as it forbids communication between fellow employees.  Another example of exploitation is the sick policy at the cleaning agency where Ehrenreich worked: work through it (pg. 87).  Because of the reoccurring theme of exploitation Ehrenreich was given many opportunities to mention workers rights groups working to change unfair labor practices.  Though she briefly mentions that her cries to unionize Walmart fall on deaf ears, she says little about the history of people who have tried to do just that.In addition to the ever present possibility of worker exploitation in low paying jobs is the more heinous and much harder to address issue of systemic economic oppression.  Systemic or institutionalized oppression is oppression that is built in to our lives, from our laws and government sponsored programs to our notions of politeness and etiquette.  Instead of overt examples of oppression - using a racial slur, for example - systemic oppression is covert and often goes unnoticed, usually through the reinforcement of commonly held stereotypes.  Systemic economic oppression is referenced (if not in that term) throughout the book in the many examples of the homelessness or near homelessness of Ehrenreich's co-workers, often as a direct result of the inadequate wages that they've received.It has been my observation that homelessness is often stereotyped as a result of laziness and/or substance abuse, though a 1997 study showed that "nearly one-fifth of all homeless people are employed in full- or part-time jobs" (footnote, pg. 26).  Ehrenreich backs up this statistic with empirical evidence of co-workers sleeping in their cars (pg. 26) or living in very crowded housing, one step away from homelessness.  Teetering on the edge of homelessness in the midst of hard work and "gainful" employment appears again in this quote from the second chapter: "I don't mind [the work]...But what I would like is to be able to take a day off now and then...and still be able to buy groceries the next day." (pg. 119)  Here Ehrenreich is afforded ample opportunity to further explore the efforts of working class people to raise the minimum wage.  Why would fully employed people need to sleep in their cars, or shelters, or the street?  This question acts as a backdrop to Nickel and Dimed but it doesn't ever feel like the question is adequately answered.What Ehrenreich does make mention of, in the Afterward of the 10th anniversary edition, is the idea of the criminalization of poverty.  (As an aside, I highly recommend reading the 10th anniversary edition for the updated information regarding our recent economic decline and its effects on poverty in the last decade.)  With skyrocketing unemployment for blue collar workers (examples on pg. 230) there has been an increase in the use of government welfare programs - food stamp usage was up 30% since the original publication of Nickel and Dimed (pg. 231) - and, I'm confident in assuming, we've also seen an increase in homelessness.  Hand in hand with these increases has been the increase of laws aimed at the eradication of "indigent" people; Ehrenreich quotes an LA statute as defining indigent people as, "...a person whom a reasonable ordinary person would believe to be entitled to apply for or receive" "public assistance" (pg. 235).  These laws have included but are not limited to the prohibition in some cities of sitting or laying down on public property - there are no such thing as benches in my city's downtown area for just this reason; the restriction in some places of food bank and soup kitchen assistance (pg. 235); and the criminalization of those in debt (pg. 236).Here, again, was a great (but failed) opportunity to reference the parallel insurgency of such solidarity movements.  An illustration of this insurgency is the rise of tent cities - gatherings of makeshift dwellings for those without homes - as one answer to homelessness.  A great example of a democratically run, self sufficient tent city is Camp Quixote in Olympia, Washington.  Another illustration of poverty solidarity is the rise in welfare rights organizations, often grassroots groups completely operated by members of the working poor.  The Kensington Welfare Rights Union, for instance, was established in 1991 in Philadelphia, PA in response to a increase in home foreclosure and an increase in people without homes.  Both tent cities and welfare rights organizations have been around well before Ehrenreich began her experiment that lead to Nickel and Dimed; I would like to have seen more recognition of the women and men who have long fought to improve their own working and living conditions.These and many other examples of systemic oppression over wage, housing, and working conditions (not to mention welfare programs, food stamps and TANF) could not be more important to highlight; they are central to the life of a low wage worker.  However, never does Ehrenreich share the storytelling stage with the people she encounters who actually live with this oppression on a daily basis.  Ehrenreich herself says in the first chapter, "I leave.  I don't walk out, I just leave." (pg. 48) and that is the inherent privilege that she has.  I don't believe that Nickel and Dimed is less important or less accurate for Ehrenreich's lack of strong personal experience.  In fact, I think that Ehrenreich's work to bring awareness of the plight of the low wage worker is invaluable.  However, I do believe that the narrative would be powerfully bolstered by the voices of the people whom she is writing about.
5	1370476800	This was a really good, informative book, and anyone who thinks that the minimum wage is fine should be required to reed it. After I read it, I donated it so that someone else who is being &#34;Nickel and Dimed&#34; could read it too. I wish I could force politicians who oppose increases in the minimum wage to not only read this book, but have to try living on it for at least a month. I strongly recommend this book to anyone, and everyone, who should know more about trying to live on this ridiculous amount of money!
5	1370131200	This book has become required reading for our community oral health class as a means of understanding why many of our citizens continue to use the Emergency Rooms of our hospitals for their general and dental health crises.After making a documented attempt to live on minimum wage jobs, the author speaks with and for those of our communities who are making an effort to make a living and keep body and soul together.  It is an eye opening  book that will give every reader a new appreciation for what an education can do to lift people out of poverty's grasp.Should be required reading for all high school students who think they will be able to match their parents' living standard by working for minimum wage jobs while all their basic living expenses are still covered by Mom and Dad.  Parents who have not talked about the importance of self-reliance or stressed higher education (which leads to specific employment goals), should also be required to read this sobering book before their kids reach middle school.
2	1369958400	The author looked at the problem from the view of an affluent intelligent person. Only rarely did she write about her co-workers who were happy with the conditions and the pay. Her bias showed but she offered no solution.
2	1369872000	I purchased this book for a class at school. While the product itself was fine, I did not enjoy the content. Coming from a working-class family, I hoped that the author's experience would be more authentic and realistic, but it did not live up to that expectation.
2	1369267200	The packaging was basically destroyed and a few of the CDs were scratched and/ or had crusty food/grime on them.
5	1368921600	This book should be on the shelves of every single public library. Ms. Enrenreich's work stands up even years later as essential reading. She offers us invaluable insights into the lives of many working people in America.
2	1368144000	After I read this book, I want to give the author credit for writing this book. She had to survive on the subsistence for one year. It was very tough to her because she has lived a well-educated  middle class person. However, while I was reading this book, I was disappointed her point of views or attitude towards the poor people who are surviving  on a low paying jobs. Sometimes, she described about those jobs as a shame work. I think she might have written this book with more wide point of views.I wish she would write book about ' Solution of low wage life.' if she has opportunity.
5	1367625600	A must read. Not only enables the reader to understand the economics of those working at minimum wage jobs, but the author also shares one or two tips about each job (cleaning a house, waitressing)In general, she is quite objective on her style, although towards the end of the book becomes more inspired by her own personal beliefs.At the end of the day, what is remarkable about America is that everyone believes that it is up to them.  ( Page 118). The author asks:"how do they feel, ...about the owners, who have so much while others, like themselves, barely get by?"Lory, one of her coworkers, replies"All I can think of is like, wow, I would like to have this stuff someday. it motivates me and I don't feel the slightest resentment because, you know, is my goal to get to where they are"
5	1367539200	I read this book shortly after it came out and just revisited it.  I really liked almost everything about it but the main thing was that it was written. Ms. Ehrenreich may have let her credentials slip into her writing and her opinions but, to the folks who seem so put off by this, who do you think would have written it?  The people trapped in two jobs and are unlikely to ever catch up don't have time and probably would not get published.Who do you think her audience is?  It's not her, temporary, co-workers.  It's the people who don't want to get their hands dirty and who hold their cocktails and talk, in front of the waiters, about "lazy" poor people. Now they can hold their cocktails and talk, in front of the waiters, about how they "understand".  They should at least be aware of where their food, clothes, clean dishes, and shiny houses come from.
5	1367366400	i was requiered to purchase this book for my women studies class. it was a good book, giving feedback of what the poor class have to got through
5	1367193600	This book is fascinating, easy to read, and impactful. I literally did not put it down. I have been reccomending it to everyone I know. It has given me so much to think about.
1	1366588800	This book was recommended to me by someone who has a genuine concern for the underprivileged and economically disadavantaged and I thought,therefore,it might be useful. However, it did not take me long to recognize that the author just wanted to be "Poor for a Day" and take a lot of credit for doing so. She undermined her thesis by bailing herself out of tough situations all too frequently using resources not available to her co-workers. I was also taken aback by her attitude about her employers, co-workers, and those for who she worked. She may be an athiest but her rant against Christianity and Buddhism,for that matter, was off-putting (and I am not religious!). All in all this turned out to be nothing more than a lark for the author with no great revelations or recommendations. If it hadn't been recommended by a friend I would have discarded it halfway through.
5	1366243200	The book is written very well. I liked that the author experienced poverty first hand and could feel what the poor people felt herself.So often people write about a subject but really do not know howit actually feels.
5	1365897600	I recommend this book to read. it is a very good book to read. has a good idea and give hope for new future. I like to read it
1	1365206400	Thank you to all who wrote reviews stating that they did not appreciate the authors attitude, personal biases, and whining. For these reasons, I chose not to endorse it by purchasing it. Instead, I am borrowing it from the library as it is required for a sociology course.
5	1364256000	The working poor sacrifice to provide a good life for the rest of us. This is Barbara Ehrenreich's conclusion in her expose, Nickel and Dimed.  The workers at the entry level of available jobs struggle with inadequate wages resulting in poor nutrition, unaffordable housing, and no medical care.  It is unconscionable that the most wealthy country in the world does not provide its hard workers with a living wage.
3	1364169600	Thought it would be nice if the author did not have an easy out, but really had to live as a low paid worker for months without going home to her McMansion
3	1364083200	Regardless of whether or not you liked or enjoyed this book, or thought it was poorly or expertly executed... It has brought a lot of concerned people together here in the review section and probably in other areas of life.It is important to realize and remember that there are a lot of concerned people who want to make a difference, and regardless of the book, we all know that there are many people right under our noses that are living very sad existences, which will probably never get better throughout their entire lifes do to make different circumstances.  Some due to personal choice, others social status, some economic status, some race, or disability.  The question is though, is how much people are willing to do to help others?  How much and how far will people go in interrupting their own pleasures to help someone else lift their life up to a respectable and humane level.I believe that most of humanity is good, but I think this book helps point out that many people are not even given a chance to let their lives shine due to the slave like conditions their life sentences are served out in.So my question to the other readers and reviewers is: "What will you do and not do now in order to help create a better life for everyone here now and those who are to come?"
5	1363824000	There are a lot of books coming out about people living on the other side of poverty, working lower class jobs, etc, but this is the only one that materializes into a good read. It felt authentic, and Ehrenreich wrote about her experience with respect, instead of making it seem like a circus show.
2	1363737600	I bought this video after reading the book to show to my high school finance class - and won't. They would never sit through it. All the information in the video could be told in 15 minutes, and instead, it's 2 hours long. The same points are repeated over and over with no in-depth analysis. It's not engaging at all.
4	1363651200	She wondered what I wondered, that is, how can people survive on minimum wage? The answers are scary. You can live in your van, if you're lucky enough to own a van.  Share a room with somebody and hope they dont't steal you blind or worse. It's not a pretty picture she paints but she pepeprs it with just enough humor to make it palatable.  The next time I get waited on, I'll wonder the waitress lives in her car and eats ramen noodles - if she has a pot and a hotplate, that is.  It's rough out there. I've found new empathy for minimum wage workers. Raise the minumum wage, today. Save some lives.
5	1363392000	Had to read this book for one of the Sociology classes and was very impressed! Great book about class and discrimination in America.
5	1363305600	I had to get this book for a class a couple years ago. I was afraid that I wouldn't like it seeing as a professor was recommending it. It was a great story, many truths unfortunately.
3	1363305600	Coming from a fairly comfortable social class, and not living in the US, this was quite an eye-opener as to how much of a struggle daily life is for the poor in the US.  I must say that this book was a lot better than "Bait and switch", mainly because this time she *actually got a job*.  "Bait and switch" in comparison was painful to read, but that's a different review altogether.This book at least I enjoyed and finished pretty quickly.  Her account of the jobs she worked at was amusing, the desperation of living in substandard housing entertainingly horrifying, and her colleague's stories sympathy-evoking.  Her account of working at Walmart included a quite vicious tirade against overweight people, which I cringed at - seems like she has a few biases under her skin just waiting for a bad day to crawl out.  She points out several times that her many years of weightlifting and aerobic exercise at the gym has paid off.  Great to hear that her ample writer's salary can afford a great gym membership and healthy food huh!?
4	1362441600	the product came right on time, and was in pretty good condition with only the cover suffering a little bit of dog ears, and the tips of all the pages had some of that suffering. The problem was easily corrected with a little weight.
1	1361318400	I had to get this book and read it for Comp 1 class but it is awful.The author basically complains the whole time through the book while she is trying to live as a low income person but she cheats constantly and still complains about it. Also she is rude and judgmental. I was just not impressed and 90% of my classmates also hated this book.
5	1361232000	This book was purchased by me to educate, myself on the struggles of many Americans, trying to meet there family needs.  This book was truly an eye opener.  I would recommend that this book be introduced into colleges of study regarding human services.  Get this book read it and have a group discussion.  You will be glad you did.
4	1361145600	this book came right when they said it would.  It was great to do this from home and have it come straight to our home.
3	1361145600	Book was received in timely manner but was not received in the condition as described in the product description.Front cover and first 1/8th of the pages were water damaged.  The book was delivered to the Midwest during a time when winter weather was your typical Wisconsin weather, the packaging was poor which caused for damage to the book.I wish we would have spent a few dollars more and just purchased new rather than trying to save some money as the end result was disappointing.
5	1361145600	very good book, and description was correct.This book is definitely interesting and worth the reading. It engages the reader and is it is thoughtfully put together.
5	1361059200	Great book for a reality check.  Having an education and even being working class, it is easy to just go about the day and not consider how other people are affected in their lives. Definitley a must read.
1	1360972800	As you will read in many other reviews, the main goal of this experiment was not achieved. Instead of experiencing the world of minimum wage workers, the reader gets to read page after page of whining and condescending remarks.  It was painful and provided zero worthwhile information.
5	1360972800	I had heard lots about this book and decided to see what it was all about. As someone who is relatively politically active, and lower middle class myself, I found this book extremely eye opening in terms of the working class. Though I had always been aware of the struggles the lower working class faced, I never truly realized just how large of a scope it was. I applaud Ehrenreich for &#34;diving right in&#34; and living her life similar to the lives of the working class. Though I didn't necessarily agree with all the methods and thought processes she used, I think what she did was very bold.
5	1360540800	This story will touch your heart and make you reconsider how you look at entry level jobs in America and who is working them. A quick read.
4	1360108800	The book is a bit old, but it is still relevant.  The author gives a good insight into what it's like working low-wage service jobs.  I would have liked for her to go back and interview some of the people she worked for to get their perspective on why they manage the way the do.
5	1360108800	Think America is the land of the free, home of the brave? Think the "Dream" can be achieved simply through hard work and perseverance? Think again. Think long and hard. Pick up this book, read through Barbara's sources, and you will see that this clearly is not the case.Setting aside the chasm of income inequality between the obscenely wealthy top 1% and the working poor (to say nothing of the surfeit of working single mothers), many of the nine-to-five laborers explored in Barbara's journey into waitressing, cleaning house for the incredibly affluent, watching over and cleaning up after geriatric residents and handling aisles at Wal-Mart are routinely exploited, shamed and borderline abused by their employers. Many are forced to live in cramped quarters, splitting rent between several others because their minimum wage job is miles apart from a sustainable living wage. An employee's initial week's wages are often withheld to ward off early turnover rates (on that note, many of the want ads are similar devices, established to create a protective buffer for the company in the event of a mass workforce exodus).There are a few brief moments of levity (while working at The Maids, Barbara and her crew mess with the heads of their clients by playing rock music at obscene volumes. This is intended, ostensibly, to cause the fabulously wealthy to believe that their impenetrably secure communes have been invaded by neighboring gangsters). Overall, the pictures paint a depressing and bleak canvas of how the desperately poor are exploited so the top 1% can hold on to 99% of their wealth.Anyone who still subscribes to the arrogantly ignorant notion that the poor are only poor because they are lazy should read this. Even with a $1500 head start and decades of healthy living (only possible with her career in journalism behind her), Barbara found it impossible to secure a month's rent on a single job (and let's not forget that one of her rules was never to go hungry). Take that into perspective, and the maids who worked through a broken bone and pushed through a day on nothing but a bag of Dorito's becomes starkly horrifying and depressing. How can a society call itself civil and compassionate when the conditions of one's employment are so vastly at odds with what most politicians are paid to do nothing?
3	1360108800	What I enjoyed most about this book was the author's quirky attitude and comments throughout the book. However, I thought that reading this book would give me a chance to see the world from a perspective other than my own, and offer me insight into the life of the barely-getting-by. A rare glimpse into another way of life that I wouldn't understand and maybe even have some shock value into what it's really like to live on low-income wages. But I was disappointed by the book because I feel as though I could have written it myself, just by guessing what it's like to live that way. I didn't learn a thing from reading the book, and I was hoping it would be insightful, it wasn't.
4	1360022400	This truly offers food for thought.  Can you make it o. Minimum wage?  After reading this I interviewed people doing the jobs that were written about, it was really eye opening.
3	1359936000	I purchased this book for a college course, and it started out okay. By the end of the first chapter I hated the journalist because I felt as though she wanted a pity party. The wages in this book was around 6-7/hr. in 2001. In my area the highest paying job is 8/hr now so I wasn't to impressed.
5	1359244800	How hard is it, really, to be a cleaning lady? To work at Walmart? To maintain any kind of normal life in the USA while doing so? A lot harder than I thought, apparently. Barbara Ehrenreich's experiment is an eye-opener, every bit as timely in 2013 as when she wrote it over ten years ago.
5	1359072000	I didn't expect this book to be any good, but it really surprised me with all the twists and turns. I haven't read a nonfiction book like this in a long time
5	1358812800	This book sheds some light on the working poor and how the middle and upper class can be dependent on them to sustain certain comforts. I feel this book was not written to make the reader feel better or to understand poor people. Reading this  book in 2013 goes to show that not much has changed since in was published in 2001 (after the tech bubble but before the housing bubble & subsequent recession yet before everyone had cell phones (read: cell phone bills). The three forces encountered by the author are each to blame for the still current situation. Chiefly, the corporations for using tactics to keep wages (among other things) unacceptable and the bottom line in the black, second the poor who accept the fact that they are worth what little they are paid and finally the haves (as opposed to the have-nots) who expect and accept world-class customer service in the form of indentured servitude.
5	1358553600	If you have not read any Barbara Ehrenreich books this is a great start.  She always knows exactly how to get down to  'brass tacks' when it comes to life in America.  I have worn out two copies of this book already.  Even though some of the information in the book may be a bit outdated (in 2013) the message is still the same.  I use it as a reference often in political debates....all you need are the current unemployment figures.  Should be required reading for every politician.  Especially those who think they understand 'poverty' or the 'welfare system' or the working class in America. I highly recommend this book. It's a real eye-opener.
1	1357948800	No real insights here. This book seemed like such a good premise and that there was so much potential for insights and commentary on a social experiment, but I was left feeling like I wasted time reading it and was so disappointed it did not measure up. Here is all you need to know about this book- it is hard to be poor and being poor is hard. Physically demanding labor is hard and often not compensated with enough $$. Don't bother with this one, there are no insights and nothing within the pages that is going to create some great epiphany. The author takes on minimum wage jobs, physically demanding jobs, and menial jobs and then tells the reader that those jobs are tough and life is hard. Save your money, don't waste it reading something that many of us endure daily and the majority of people already know.
5	1357862400	This book, though sadly not read in full, was enjoyable and intriguing. Was pleased with the swiftness of arrival and overall service.
5	1357516800	The author is a white collar, middle-class writer, academic and something of a journalist. One of her talents is to go undercover and conduct social studies. In this book, she recounts her life as a member of blue collar, working-class, minimum wage earner. Basically, she wants to discover how it is to be poor and to live from paycheck to paycheck. To do so, she takes something like 1000$ from her savings, moves to another city and decides that she will cut all ties to her former life (and her bank account) and get a low paying job.During those few months, she works as a hotel maid, waitress, cleaning maid, an assistant in a retirement home and a Wall-Mart employee. Other than describing her working conditions and experiences, she talks a lot about the process of job searching, looking for affordable housing, finding cheap food, and overall surviving.At this point, I have to cut in and add my two proverbial cents. I too in my life have worked a number of low paying jobs. Based on my own experiences, I can vouch that everything the author describes is either true or sounds perfectly plausible to me.The point that the author is trying to make with this book is that the workers in those jobs are paid next to nothing and abused. The abuse does not so much come from sadistic bosses (although that does happen sometimes), but from the way the system itself is organized. In order to make ends meet, low wage workers must almost always work two or more jobs at the same time. Even if they do have a full-time job, many still need a part-time job on the side. And even when working multiple jobs, they still need to count every penny and suffer deprivations.No, contrary to popular notion, the poor are not poor due to laziness and stupidity. In fact, if you think about it, the very notion is ridiculous. If someone works two jobs or more, can you still call them lazy? As for being stupid, there is this idea that the poor spend all their money on such things as alcohol, drugs and other wasteful things. Irresponsible individuals exist at every level of society, but the poor cannot afford to spend their money on superfluous things for the simple reason that then they would not have enough money to put food on the table, pay rent or buy diapers for their kids. In fact, the wages are often so low that even employed blue collar people are often homeless and/or suffer from hunger and poor nutrition. Even those very lucky ones who rent an apartment (forget about owning a house) and eat regularly, very rarely have any extra money left at the end of the month. Basic expenditures such as rent, food and other absolutely necessary things consume most if not all of their income. Even if they do have savings, those savings are so small that any emergency such as loss of job or illness can wipe them out in no time.But workers are exploited in more ways than being paid starvation wages. The working conditions are abysmal. Workers are forced to work ever faster and harder. At first this might make sense. When you hire people to work for you, you do not want your employees to be slackers. But the demands placed on workers force them to work the equivalent of two, three, even four people. Sadly, the workers are not paid two, three or four times more in compensation for their productivity. As an ex-blue collar worker, I can how management and work environment forces employees to work ever faster, ever more intensely and to spend less and less time on customer or product.The physical and psychological toil is terrible. I remember how my former jobs used to exhaust me physically and mentally. And I was a young man in my prime who was (at least in the beginning) enthusiastic about my job and wanted to give my best. I cannot even imagine what kind of impact this has on people past their prime.The employers do benefit because productivity goes up through the roof and costs are reduced to minimum, but everyone suffers. If you do not care about the workers (who are human beings just like you and me), think at least how it affects the customers. Due to the work conditions and the starvation wages, workers are exhausted, bitter, angry, cynical and demoralized. Because of the working conditions and severe understaffing, they must "process" every customer as fast as possible. Would you, as a customer, want to be "handled" by people like that? If not, don't vent your anger on the workers. Vent it on the bosses.The idea that private ownership improves efficiency is not true. In order to save money, businesses cut corners any way they can (including illegal means) and squeeze their employees so much that the quality of their work goes down the toilet. The author recounts an episode when she was working in the cafeteria of a retirement home. Due to some emergency, the other employee could not show up for her shift and the author had to serve forty or so elderly all by herself. At the end, she collapsed. Moreover, those elderly folk had special dietary needs and had to be given proper medication. Because most of them were senile, they could not be counted to remind their helpers who needs what.Taking into account that the author was completely overwhelmed physically and mentally, it is a miracle that nothing bad happened. A single mistake, giving someone wrong pills or wrong food, might have resulted in a medical emergency, even death.The retirement home should have had extra employees (two or three would have been enough) to cover such emergencies, so that when one or two workers cannot come because of some emergency, there are still enough qualified people left to take care of the old folks.Why didn't the retirement home have enough staff? Simple. That would cost them too much money, even though those assistants would have been paid minimum wage or close to it.Imagine that one of your parents was in such a retirement home. Would you want your grandmother or elderly father to have a medical emergency or even die because the retirement home put profits over his/her life?Another point I want to bring is the role of management, of which the author talks a lot too. Here, as well, I can bring in my experiences. The author argues that the upper management creates exploitative working conditions that brutalize (believe me, I am not using that word lightly) the workers, but it is the task of low-ranking management to enforce the rules and keep the system going. Officially, the managers are there to root out slackers and troublemakers and improve productivity. In reality, the managers are the masters of the carrot and stick approach aimed at keeping the workers docile and obedient. They are disciplinarians, not managers. In fact, workers need very little management. I can attest that almost without exception, workers do want to do a good job. They feel a certain pride in what they do.I myself, I always wanted (and often did) to do the best job possible and went above and beyond the call of duty. My colleagues almost always felt the same. We did so not out of loyalty to our company and bosses (don't make me laugh) or because we loved our job (quite often we didn't), but because we felt that when you are doing something, you ought to do it right.The managers were there to make sure that we achieve our quota, and they always demanded more and more. They almost never, however, improved our work. Their decisions often backfired and made us miserable. Genuinely improvements usually came from the frontline workers themselves.Nickel and Dimmed is more than a decade old by now, but if things changed, it is only for the worse. The author did her undercover work in 2000 and 2001. Shortly after she finished, the Dot Com Bust happened and the economy worsened. Then came the 2008 and the Great Recession that is still here. Nicked and Dimmed was written in a time of economic prosperity (at least comparing to today). Things got only worse since then. The job market contracted and unemployment went up. Even more jobs were outsourced to other countries where people can be exploited more than American workers. Back in 2000, it was easy for the author to find blue collar jobs. All she had to do, was to check the classifieds, make a dozen phone calls, drop in a dozen CVs, and within few days she had a job. Just try doing that today.This means that the employers have even greater leverage over the workers. Scared of losing their job, the workers feel that they must accept ever increasing demands and hardships.And who benefits? The millionaires who own the businesses, but not the customers, and certainly not the men and women who try to raise their families (or just keep themselves alive) on low wages.
1	1357344000	I really wanted to like this book, novel concept, should have paid off. Instead of a sociological experiment into the working poor lives, we get a whole book in which the pompous author repeatedly insults the "yellow teeth" and hopeless lives of people she works beside.Do not waste your time on this hateful book.
4	1357171200	In 2011, Ehrenreich wrote: "The big question, 10 years later, is whether things have improved or worsened for those in the bottom third of the income distribution, the people who clean hotel rooms, work in warehouses, wash dishes in restaurants, care for the very young and very old, and keep the shelves stocked in our stores. The short answer is that things have gotten much worse, especially since the economic downturn that began in 2008. When you read about the hardships I found people enduring while I was researching my book -- the skipped meals, the lack of medical care, the occasional need to sleep in cars or vans -- you should bear in mind that those occurred in the best of times. The economy was growing, and jobs, if poorly paid, were at least plentiful."As 2013 begins, the National Employment Law Project website states: "The ranks of the working poor now exceed 47 million, driven in part by the steep erosion of wage standards throughout our economy. Over the last forty years, the real value of the federal minimum wage has fallen by close to 30%. Even after the 2007-2009 federal increases, the minimum wage remains far too low to sustain working families."Some reviewers quibble over the unscientific and limited way in which Ehrenreich sought to live as a working-poor woman. (Ehrenreich freely admits: "I am now a productive fake member of the working class.") Be that as it may, the wrenching stories and experiences of those with whom she worked and their often indefatigable realization of hopelessness, those for whom this was not a project but a lifetime, seem far more important than the methodology.Has this book made a difference, more than ten years on? Lord knows, certainly not enough! We, as a society, still don't get the potentially disasterous consequences of income disparity. The socioeconomic fabric is wearing very thin in a lot of places. When will the tipping point come?(From a religious perspective: Ehrenreich, an avowed atheist, writes about a tent revival in Portland (ME) that "it would be nice if someone would read this sad-eyed crowd the Sermon on the Mount, accompanied by a rousing commentary on income inequality and the need for a hike in the minimum wage. But...Christ crucified rules, and it may be that the true business of modern Christianity is to crucify him again and again so that he can never get a word out of his mouth.")
5	1356739200	This was a great read. I enjoyed it. This was required reading in a philosophy class I had taken in my Junior year. I read the entire book before class started. I really was affected by the writers personal experience.
5	1356566400	Must red for anyone in the ministry or working with those living in the economic cellar. Great piece of real research by the author.
5	1356566400	This should be required reading for every person in America.  There is not much more that is needed to say about this outstanding book.
5	1356134400	I must admit, I've lived a life of relative white privilege. I wasn't rich, or even upper middle-class, but I have managed to avoid having to work in any retail or service industry. Reading this book was an eye-opener. It is a candid look at belonging to the working class. One interesting consequence of reading this book, for me, is that when I'm at the store now and decide to not purchase an item I've placed in my cart, I make sure to put it back where I found it rather than leave it for a store employee to have to shuffle back into place.
5	1356134400	Read this book. It's a real eye opener. The author paints in very realistic terms how minimum wage is not a live able wage and shows this by taking various types of jobs and then living without any additional Income or help. She lived the life- felt the challenges and the minimal opportunities to move out of this cycle of low pay and she found it difficult to find reasonable , affordable housing, healthy food options and take opportunities ,like going to the movies ,impossible due to limited funds. I have heard that to be able to live at minimum wage you must work 75 hours- So you have to cobble together several jobs - and that means you have to have reliable transportation- if you can afford a car, gas and insurance or live in area with great public transportation. This is an issue that swirls just below the great debate on incomes, taxes and the idea of creating more jobs so opportunities to reach middle class- if this country will ever experience a financial improvement- will be common again.
5	1356048000	Nickeled and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By In America was a well written story about Barbara on her quest to get by on a minimum wage income.
4	1355702400	This was a very interesting book to discuss at book club.  We all enjoyed the lively discussion that it prompted.
5	1355443200	This book is a MUST READ in this day and age.  Ehrenreich accurately describes the plight of the service worker in America and it is disturbing.  I applaud her for her efforts to educate us on how these individuals must work like slaves just to survive.  Great service, book arrived on time.
3	1355184000	I bought this for a sociology class. It is biased, a book based on a poorly executed experiment. However, sociology professors love it.
5	1355097600	It arrived and good conditions. It is a nice easy fast reading. I used it for and English class. Interesting.
5	1354665600	I had to read this for a class at my university so I wasn't thrilled but it ended up being the only book I read all the way through for that class! Ehrenreich will touch your soul and make you feel for the working class when she tries (and sometimes fails) to step into the lives of the working poor, it really makes you think and appreciate what you have
5	1354147200	I recommend this book to many of my friends because it really shows a picture of America today.  This book is really worth the price and your time.
5	1353628800	Absolutely amazing! A most important book to add to your families home library. Anybody who ever felt like they became a big &#34;L&#34; having not achieved autonomy, along with enough wits to rule others should read this sucker, rather than contemplating saving their slave wages, turning around only to spend it on tuition for school which doesn't guarantee you what you perceive will be a payoff. Considering an aristocratic rule has the upper echelons all sown up where it's highly unlikely you'll ever get to where your ego thinks you're going to end up, this is an education in its self, the very foundation of survival 101. I'd say essential reading for all young kids to steer them away from dummy moves, teaching self governance, pride of self, unwavering moral, giving less of their means away thus claiming more for themselves.
5	1353196800	This book was an eye opener.  I learned a wealth of knowledge about the quality of life of low wage earners.  It is a book worth reading.  It always helps us all to understand how every human being is wading through life's obstacles.
3	1353024000	the book was in good shape, but i must admit i had to buy it for a class, so i really wasn't that into it
5	1351382400	Nickel and Dimed / B002V1BOFQI cannot praise highly enough "Nickel and Dimed"; it's one of those few books that I honestly think pretty much *everyone* should read. It's depressing and heartbreaking to see, first-hand through the on-the-ground journalism of Barbara Ehrenreich just how hard it is to get by in America as a member of the working poor, even with the numerous starting advantages that she began with.The audiobook maintains the same high quality of this book by providing perfect narration. Maybe I'm unusual in this respect, but the ultimate goal for me as a reader is to hear what the author intended -- the humorous inflections, the wry disappointments, the sarcastic quips -- as though the author were reading hir own work to the reader. Cristine McMurdo-Wallis nails this novel perfectly, to the point where it's almost difficult to remember that this isn't the author we're listening to. For me, that's pretty much the Holy Grail of narration.If you enjoyed reading "Nickel and Dimed", I can pretty much guarantee you'll like this unabridged audiobook version of the same. And if you haven't read the book before, I think you'll still get a lot out of this audiobook, and I recommend it highly.~ Ana Mardoll
3	1351296000	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in AmericaBarbara EhrenreichMetropolitan Books, 2001224 ppNickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America by Barbara Ehrenreich is a New York Times best seller. My edition includes a reading group guide to facilitate discussion. The audience for the book is the general American voting public. The author is a reporter who goes undercover to see if she can live on minimum wage for several weeks. This book was a response to the rhetoric surrounding welfare reform in the late 1990s - early 2000. It ended up debunking the myth that poverty is merely a consequence of unemployment.The goal of her book was to change our assumptions about American prosperity and hardship. Ehrenreich wants us to be ashamed at our own dependence on the underpaid labor of others. She was so convincing in this that I no longer shop at Walmart. However she didn't write about Target...The book was meaningful to me because it made me realize how fortunate I am for my education and experience. I do not take them for granted. The question the book brought up for me that I want to leave you with is: Are you brave enough to challenge the status quo when you enjoy the advantages of it?
4	1350777600	Not many people would have the courage to change for a while how they are living. Her experiences shows details that we take for granted and that we do not pay any attention.We think that jobs that uses brain are very stressfull but in reality all jobs can produce that level of stress. It is a eye opening book.
4	1350777600	...Then at least I know what to look forward to.This book provided some poignant and real life examples about the world of low-wage work, using instances that are glossed over in many facets of media.As a college student with a background in sociology, I find this kind of thing fascinating. My concentration is somewhere in the field of Work and Occupation, and so I could read about these things all day. In all fairness, I purchased this book because it was mandatory for a college course I'm currently taking, so I may have not approached reading it with the utmost gusto. However, it greatly exceeded my expectations, in more ways than one.Ehrenreich sets out to prove the age-old question of whether or not someone working a minimum wage can make a living. It seems simple enough and to some, it seems redundant. Thousands of people in the United States survive working these kinds of jobs, so it would appear that she shouldn't have too many difficulties earning a living. However, she soon encounters problems that many people in higher paying jobs quickly forget: living is expensive.After she pays housing costs, little is left for food or other emergency payments that pop up. She tries her experiment out in different states with different jobs, often times needing more than one job to pay the bills. Ehrenreich points out that most low-pay jobs are physically taxing- requiring long hours standing, lots of bending, lifting, and moving. The strain of these jobs starts to take a toll on her, and the money spent on Advil further detracts from her meager allowance for food, causing her diet and health suffer as a result.By the end of the experiment, she concludes that even if people are able to scrape together enough money to survive working these types of jobs, it certainly can't count as earning a living.The account she gives of her experiences was eye-opening and rather disheartening, truth be told. So many people are dependent on these types of occupations to make a living, and with the economy the way it is, I could be too, after graduation.My only issue with the book is that I felt it had a disconnect. Perhaps I don't favor her writing style; written as someone who observes the struggle against poverty rather than experiences it, made connecting with her perspective a little difficult.However, she did stress the fact that she wasn't experiencing these jobs as many do- she lists the advantages she began the experiment with: supportive shoes, a lifetime of medical coverage and overall good health. She stresses that most people in this situation don't have any of that, thus starting work with a disadvantage.All in all, it was definitely a worthwhile read for those with or without low-wage jobs, and I would recommend it.
4	1350345600	The book came just in time because it was a school asignment. It also changed my mind about the working poor.
1	1350172800	I was required to read this book for a Women's Studies course, with this unit focusing on poverty in America. I do not understand the reviews praising the author's humor. Like many of the other people who gave low ratings, I found much of the author's humor to be offensive. Not that I'm being overly sensitive, and I generally do not advocate militant political correctness. However, for a study focusing on the plight of the working poor in America, the author needed to be much more respectful of the people she was working with. She seemed to consider herself, a PhD holder (in case you forget this fact, you will be reminded at least every 5 pages or so, above many of her coworkers. She seemed very anti-Christian, and anti-Capitalist. I will say, I myself am atheist and fairly liberal, but I do not judge somebody for being Christian, and I am by no means Marxist/socialist. I would not recommend this book to anybody....her study is already flawed in that she doesn't live genuinely as a poor person, is downright offensive and condescending to most everybody, and always had her upper-class lifestyle to fall back on. Get a rash, and calls her personal dermatologist. Suck it up and quit whining! I would say I live as a middle-class person now, but started out as a person living in trailer parks and on the poor area of town...her portrayal of the lifestyle is NOT accurate, and I would not recommend this book to anybody!
4	1349308800	You have got to admire writer's sincere research. Book was timely for me in view of romney's recent comments re th 47 percent.  As an individual who has lived in both a blue collar culture growing up and a  upper middle class culture as an adult am acutely aware of differences and felt writer to be on target with recognition that while ambition, energy, committment and hard work blended with some natural intelligence count for much....where you are born..to whom and other "accidents" of life have a far greater influence on what you will  Eventually achieve.  A good read with an honest focus of economic facts affecting the working poor of america
4	1348963200	Although the events Ehrenreich describes took place over 10 years ago, this is still an eye-opener.If you've worked in middle to upper-class professional type jobs your whole life, and don't have a lot of awareness as to how people working jobs like maid, waitress and senior home employee are treated and what their lives are like, you would probably find this book jarring and fascinating, as I did.Reading through some of the harsh reviewers on here about how the author is "privileged" and doesn't go far enough, I think... well, of course. She can't unlive the life she's had or the thought processes she's grown up with. If you want a story of how someone has grown up in poverty, this is not it. It's an experiment, and is naturally imperfect. Yes, it's somewhat random in location. But I think it could drive people reading it to want to delve into more poverty reading, and take a second and third look both at their city's minimum wagers and homeless. It could cause them to picture themselves in such a situation.You don't change from ignorant to militant poverty activist overnight. Let's be realistic, people. You have to go in stages. This feels like stage 1 -- rude awakening. Maybe she doesn't have all the survival skills and instincts that someone who grew up in poverty would have. But I think the project was taken on in earnest, with a lot of heart and good intention. She suffers health problems throughout the book as a result of the undertaking... I think she took it quite far, further than most would dare to go.Striking for me are the contrasts she experiences, and the psychological effects she notices on herself, feeling aggression, exhaustion, bitterness, numbness, rebelliousness or over-identification with the work, that help to explain why it can be so hard to leave, and some of the puzzling behaviors that workers seem to exhibit. She footnotes a lot of it with supplemental statistics about the contradictory ways things are portrayed, as well as detailed notes about the wording that was used in training manuals, managerial pep talks, and so on.I could see it as a useful book for discussions with those of the staunch belief that capitalism solves all, as well as a starting point for someone dipping a toe into the class conversation, with the necessary realization that it is not a comprehensive and all-encompassing tome.
5	1348617600	This book was bought in a hurry for my son's summer High School reading assignment,on which he procrastinated until the last day. Well, if he's not going to read it, I will. So glad I did and thank goodness our great teachers, who assigned this book. It is non-fiction but very readable and funny in parts. I found it very enlightening, drawing me to think about people and working conditions in a new way. We get so caught up in our day to day career struggles...this really made me look outside myself at the big picture. Great book, great assignment from the high school teachers and well worth the time reading.
5	1346716800	If you're in NYC, visit 116th street in Harlem. We call it "Little Senegal" because of all the West African businesses there; restaurants, hair braiders, cell phone dealers, clothes stores, etc. But the store owners aren't rich; on the contrary, they're no wealthier than the low-wage earners who live in the "projects." The difference between these immigrant businessmen and Ehrenreich is one thing; she was ALONE. She went into this venture with $1000 and no family to turn to. But the average immigrant has family (or a family friend) in this country already. Those relatives will give him a job, a cot to sleep on, and some food. In West Long Branch, New Jersey, I saw rows of houses where Mexican families doubled, up, trippled up, crammed together to save on rent.In the same neighborhood I mentioned above, there are thousands of minimum wage earners, with jobs as soul-destroying as the ones Ehrenreich had. But most of them live in public housing, where they'd put up with the crime, drugs, and neglect in exchange for the low rents. Furthermore, many of those families receive charity in some form or another. Nowhere in "Nickel and Dimed" does she live in subsidized housing or take a lot of charity. There is one scene where she does get free food, and it consists of hamburger helper!Bill Cosby often complains about a disparity in success rates between African immigrants and American Blacks. I recall how hard it was to place my students (all Black or Latino) in part-time jobs. I had jobs when I was a teenager, so why didn't my students? The answer, once again, is family. I, and my classmates, got our jobs through our parents or their friends. We all worked in day camps that catered to Jewish kids. If you're 18 and just arrived from Ivory Coast, you go live in the house of a relative, and he takes you to work in his store. In essence, you're working for him in exchange for room and board. But the difference between that and Ehrenreich's jobs is that you can work your way up from store employee to having your own store. In a restaurant, the dishwasher can work his way up to chef, and eventualy have his own restaurant.Ehrenriech finds that the only jobs for the unskilled Americans are the worst ones; low pay, hard labor, no protections, and no opportunity to advance. People in her situation have to do one of three things; double up with family, join a church for support (if the church does that) or take charity. A lot of people take charity, and I don't fault them for it.I applaud Ehrenreich for her work. It was just like George Orwell's "Down and Out in Paris and London," except that Orwell was a guy. There are many jobs that a woman can't get, and many places where it's not safe for a woman to live (unless she's rough.)Watch the Donna Summer video "She Works Hard for Her Money" before you read the book. The video is staged. But "Nickel and Dimed" is real. There are jobs in this country that few want, and the people taking them have no choice.
3	1346630400	I have to say that the idea of a person willingly living a low-income lifestyle is unheard of and I was thrilled that a scholar as herself would be up to the task to inform the rest of the public of the situations the low-income class must endure day to day. Still, while she gave great detail on day to day living, I had to think about the fact that while she complained, she set rules for herself: to not go homeless, to not go hungry, rented a rent-a-wreck, and had emergency funds set aside. Unfortunately, people in the low-income class are unable to set these kinds of rules for themselves. If they have no food, they will go hungry, if they have no money, they will be homeless, with no money there is no vehicle, with no healthcare, there is no medications or doctors visits. At one point, she admits to coworkers in her maid employment that she is really a journalist capturing the situation of the working class. While, the others laughed it off thinking their boss would get in trouble, I have to wonder how they really felt about this imposter recording their living situations, almost finding it interesting and amusing for others. To think, that this person could leave that "life" at any moment while they continue theirs with no hope of escaping. Thinking that she is there observing them like an experiment, and that experiment is their lives. I was a bit annoyed especially thinking that while she is gaining employment to do these observations, she might be taking that job from someone who might really need it.
1	1345939200	Ehrenreich knew what she was expecting to find before she went out to find it. This alone casts doubt on her objectivity. She then set things up in such a way that she couldn't possibly survive on the money from the jobs that she took. For instance, she expected to live on her own. Anyone in a minimum-wage job would almost certainly expect to share expenses with someone, one way or another. Apparently this never even occurred to her. She went out ostensibly to learn about the way that poor people live, but she learned nothing.She is clueless when it comes to economics. Her bias is entirely toward paying people more regardless of what they can contribute to a business. Employees have value like any other resource, and a totally untrained person, with no relevant experience, naturally has the lowest value. For some reason Ehrenreich never wonders how it is that the public school system releases people into the job market with virtually no relevant skills. She doesn't stop and wonder why it is that someone who is trained in construction work, for instance, makes more money than someone who restocks shelves in Wal-Mart. She just blames Wal-Mart for not paying higher wages.I was so instinctively suspicious of this book, I actually took a job at my local Wal-Mart. This was not easy; there were 160 people applying for fewer than 10 openings. And many of them had already worked at other Wal-Marts. They wanted more of the same. And with good reason. I was amazed to find that my local Wal-Mart was an enlightened employer--certainly preferable to most mom-and-pop businesses of the kind that Ehrenreich feels so nostalgic about. I wrote about my experiences, and they were published in the New York Post.My own experience suggests that this book is not a reliable source, and I cannot regard Ehrenreich as a responsible journalist.
4	1345075200	In the late 1990's, Barbara Ehrenreich, a writer with a PhD in Biology went undercover to work minimum wage jobs: waitress, house cleaner, nursing home aide and retail person. Though the late 90's were years of prosperity in America, Erhenerich discovered that a minimum wage job allowed one barely to survive; and given a car repair or medical emergency, one quickly sank into debt out of which there was no easy path. For me the value her account lay in the descriptions of her fellow workers, the problems they shared, the difficulties they faced, and the kindnesses they extended to each other. Strangely, I was reminded of a long ago time, among Marines in Vietnam. The stories of people we almost never see, but who serve us every day, are given authenticity in this short collection of case studies. Against the backdrop of the current 2012 political debates, this is a timely book.
5	1344384000	I had to read this book for a college class. I didn't think I was going to like the book because the author is not poor. She is a writer who was pretending to be poor so she could learn if it was possible to survive on a low-paying job.I started by reading the introduction and it explains why the author ended up doing this project. By the time I finished the introduction, I was already liking the author but was still not to sure if I would like the book. I did not want to read just her perspective about the subject.As I read the book, I soon discovered it is not just her perspective. She moves to 3 different areas in the United States and stays for 30 days at each place. In each of these places she gets to know her coworkers. Along with her perspective, are the stories of these real people she met. These stories make the book much more believable and interesting.The book was very interesting to read. The author did her homework the hard way. She also researched quite a few facts that she includes in footnotes that are worth reading. An illuminating book that answers the question, "Why don't poor people just go get a job?"A very good book.
4	1344211200	It was in fantastic shape. It arrived right on time. I would gladly do business with them again. I recommend them to anyone who is looking to buy good used books!
4	1343692800	The book's subject was interesting. I honestly thought it would be more boring than it was since I am not a huge fan of economics or finance. The way that the author describes the life of a minimum wage worker is realistic and informative. I'm glad that I read this book and definitely recommend it.
5	1342051200	The book I orderd was as stated, being a used book it was in great condiction. My niece will be reading it over the summmer for her required reading for her class thats starts in the fall.
4	1341878400	"Welfare moms scrounging off of John Q. Public.  Why can't they just get a job like the rest of us?Nothing in this life is free.  Life wasn't meant to be easy.  They're probably all on drugs, that's why they're in the state they're in."  How many times have you heard stuff like this ?  But America's lower working class has never been worse off.  You can try as hard as you'd like, you can work two or even three jobs, but the playing field is tilted against you.  It's an uphill struggle.  A few break out, but millions don't.  Of course, America has a large middle class, better off, often quite comfortable.  I'm lucky enough to be in it, but I see evidence all around me that things could have been different with just a few changes in my fate.  This sort of "evidence" is, in my case, an opinion, a feeling, or a set of ideas based on my (narrow) experience.  So, it's very useful and very sad to read a book like Ehrenreich's that confirms my idea that life for a lot of my fellow Americans is not hunky-dory.  Far from it.  Working like a dog, taking all kinds of insults and demeaning behavior from employers, and paid a pittance---can you eat properly ?  Do you have a decent place to stay ?  What about health insurance ?  (a distant dream unless Obamacare becomes a reality)  What about education that could lift you out of this mess ?  If you read NICKEL AND DIMED you must come away with a reformed opinion if you think life in working class America is a piece of cake.OK, maybe the experimental voyage of the author among the waitresses, cleaners, home health aides, and department store workers of this country is a bit contrived, but you definitely get the idea, you can't think that her experience lacks meaning.  People continually insist that everything is fine, the workers are doing well, their difficulties are their own fault, but Ehrenreich shows that this is not so.  If she thought so before her 'experiment', at least she went out and tried to see if it were true or not.  Most people, including me, have neither time nor desire to do the same.When I finished the book, I felt despair.  I was past anger.  Ours is such a rich country and what have we achieved with our wealth ?  Flattened Iraq and Afghanistan but left them worse off than before, we've got a huge military, we shot off how many space rockets but have now abandoned the effort, executive bonuses and corporate excesses like a tidal wave in a sea of busted mortgages and empty properties.  It's necessary to fight terrorism, but what people who work at the bottom fear is not terrorists, but getting fired and having to live on the street or in a car, getting sick and not being able to buy medicine, having your kid grow up on white bread, cereal, bologna, and Coke.And the workers are still being nickel and dimed.  We've gone wrong and this book tells us just a part of it.  It's very worth reading even if some of the text is either repetitive or in too much detail.
3	1341532800	The author makes some good points in this book and I especially liked the "Evaluation" chapter where she brings together her experiences and looks at them from a larger, societal perspective. However, much of the book is spent congratulating herself on doing well in the jobs she undertook. She constantly reminded the reader of how smart and well-off she is and was disappointed that the people with whom she interacted didn't fall over themselves to tell her how great she was. But, she had many more choices than the people with whom she worked in the book (e.g., she had a car while many did not which greatly enhanced her range of job options). She also knew these jobs were for a limited time and that she could return to her cushy life. The people with whom she worked did not have that safety net. I applaud her on undertaking such a project but think she missed the point in many cases in her writing regarding what the real message should be (rather than her own accolades).
5	1341273600	The book was on the reading list for my 9th grader for "summer reading".  I ordered the book and it arrived quickly and was in fine condition.
4	1341014400	"It is common, among the nonpoor, to think of poverty as a sustainable condition. What is harder for the nonpoor to see is poverty as acute distress: The lunch that consists of Doritos or hot dog rolls, leading to faintness before the end of the shift. The 'home' that is also a car or a van. The illness or injury that must be worked through,' with gritted teeth, because there's no sick pay or health insurance and the loss of one day's pay will mean no groceries for the next. These experiences are not part of a sustainable lifestyle, even a lifestyle of chronic deprivation. They are, by almost any standard of subsistence, emergency situations. And that is how we should see the poverty of so many millions of low-wage Americans--as a state of emergency." p.214Barbara Ehrenreich brought this observation home for me in this book. While her method of going undercover may be flawed, it did give her the perspective to be able to write in detail about the experience of working low wage jobs and trying to make ends meet. The way she coped with her challenges on and off the job is very funny to read and makes us feel like we are in her shoes. I especially enjoyed the episode where she plans 'germ warfare' on the owners of the homes she cleaned during her housekeeping stint. She also conveys through the lives of her coworkers the desperate existences of the poor. The way she told the story makes for a very interesting narrative instead of a report from a third person point of view. I honestly couldn't put the book down and enjoyed myself immensely reading it.I wish that she had written more about her coworkers. After she came out to them, she should have interviewed them and told their stories from their point of view. What were their backgrounds? What prevented them from being able to climb up the ladder? What were their feelings about their jobs? This should have been an essential part of the story but sadly it was short. Especially because her own attempt at poverty omitted many hardships such as lack of a vehicle, children, lack of social support, or health problems.Nevertheless, this book did open my eyes to the problem of poverty in America, and made me feel grateful for what I have. Our society makes it very easy to compare ourselves to the more wealthy and feel discontent with our own social status. It makes the poor pretty much invisible. It is also shocking to contemplate how much money is required to achieve the basic necessities--housing, transportation, healthcare, food, basic education--in our society. Other advanced nations provide these things at low cost to their citizens, in America, a middle class family uses all their earnings just to achieve the basics. And the reality is that it is becoming harder and harder to do so.
5	1339977600	I hated to put this book down.I can't say, enough, how much I enjoyed this.  This book will give you a entirely new prospective on our economy and our working poor.It will make you think, twice, before passing judgment on a cleaning lady or a waitress or a department store clerk...if that's the type of person you are.I think everyone should read this and then go back and read it, again.Bravo!!!
1	1339545600	Barbara Ehrenreich writes on an absolute socialist viewpoint and can even be called a Marxist.  The author started out already knowing how her 'experiment' would end. She wanted to fail and does everything she can to convince you that America is the new evil empire that has kept millions from ever climbing the ladder of success. She will exhaust you with pithy comments about caste systems, the forgotten droves of poor, and the evil ways of our society. What could have been an honest and useful study instead is turned into an eye-rolling diatribe by woman who is cursed to live in the land of the free. With details of her hourly jobs, low-end living situations, weekend drug use, and gifts of guilt to her coworkers, she tries desperately to make you hate your own success. She wants you to feel guilty at what you have earned, and ultimately, to hate capitalist America the way she does. Save your $. Read some other non-fiction that lifts you up instead of throwing you down and do something Barbara would hate - become successful and live well!
1	1339113600	While the book opens your eyes to the standpoint of low wage earners, the research method was extremely flawed. First Ehrenreich has a strong liberal bias, she didn't go into the project with an open mind as a researcher should, she had made up her mind about the results long before she started. No one moves every month and has to start over in a strange town, knowing no one, having no job and no housing. They typically start out with a place to live (with family, friends, roommates etc.). People get established in housing and jobs over time. They may start out with a less than ideal housing situation, but over time settle into something that works for them, their budget & location. Once getting a job people are able to progress into higher paying positions or at least get a rise over time. Once waitresses get to know their clients and become competent in their jobs, their tips improve. Ehrenreich spent an inordinate amount of time job and house shopping, which isn't realistic.  And who walks into a job new and starts talking about organizing a union week later?Ehrenreich is condescending to those she  works with. She looks down on them and never gets to know them beyond work. There is no character development among those she works with. Who are they, what about their families, do they live with a husband, parents, extended family or roomates? Do they have children, do they have help with them, what are their ages ? The book is all about Ehrenreich. This topic would have made a good article, but not a book. I DO NOT recommend this book.
2	1339113600	Although I applaud the concept -- someone who's accustomed to a pretty much white-bread, privileged life trying to figure out if the minimum wage is really a liveable wage or not -- the execution left a lot to be desired. I'd heard so many good things about this book for years, imagine my disappointment when I found myself fighting the urge to slap the author and go watch TV.First, I found the tone to be rather patronizing. Much like my self-important attitude when, weeks after my college graduation, the only job I could find in my dying rust-belt town was in a steel muffler factory, right along with all the high school dropouts and single moms. "For this I went to college?" I'd ask myself. I thought I was above those people because I'd gotten a degree and I chose to work there, while most of them HAD to. I look back on that attitude now and cringe, much like I cringed throughout the reading of this book because I saw that same attitude reflected right back at me. Ew. To my then-coworkers, whom I judged viciously (but at least I kept my comments to myself), I humbly apologize. I had no idea how snotty and elitist I came off until I read this book.Second, I thought Morgan Spurlock did a much better job of presenting this same idea in his 30 Days series. He and his then-fiance chose a Midwestern town and eschewed their college degrees to live on cash only, working minimum wage. Thing is, Spurlock took a bit more risk than Ehrenreich did. They actually tried to have medical problems treated and discovered how the broken healthcare system REALLY throws a monkey wrench in the whole "survive on minimum wage" plan. He also took on his brother's kids for a weekend and further complicated the picture with concerns about having kids. Ehrenreich went into this single, with no kids and nobody depending on her, and she didn't run into any injuries or illness along the way. So it seems like she only paints about half the picture.Finally, I found the best parts of the book were in the footnotes. That's where she buried the data that substantiated her claims and that's what made the book interesting. I grew weary of story after story of her trying to organize WalMart workers when she herself had very little to lose by doing so, but for those employees whose families rely on the kindness of their employers, I thought it was a slap in the face for her to pressure them to organize. She had no business meddling in some of her coworker's personal decisions, such as the cleaning lady teammate who was injured on the job. She demanded this woman leave work and see a doctor. Right? And pay him with what, exactly? The money that employee might use to feed her kids later? So many blind spots, so little real empathy. Plenty of pity, and patting herself on the back, though.I also failed to see the point of moving around to different cities after only a month. I have rather seen this experiment carried out in a single city (say midrange in terms of employment opportunities, payscale, and cost of living) for a year. Because I think just about anyone could get through a month of "hardship" but it's far more eye-opening to A) not have a safety net and B) do it over and over and over again for months or years. The author does, at least, acknowledge that while she was able to keep up with her more physically demanding jobs, she knows it would have broken her down very quickly had she stuck with it. Because, of course, without insurance, one must work while sick or injured. And one can be fired for staying home to tend to a sick child in many of those jobs. I think she stripped down what appeared to be a rather intimidating hypothesis and chose to carry out the experiment in a way that was so risk averse, I think she really missed out on the meat of the core issues she brings up. Again, more elaboration can be found in the footnotes. I found myself wishing she'd developed those into the book, rather than hear about her opinions of other workers' or what was wrong with her crappy hotel room.A glaring omission, in my opinion, is an examination of how it's actually more expensive to be poor. Some examples: Many, many people working at the minimum wage level do not have bank accounts -- the bank fees are considered a waste of good money. One could feed the kids a few meals on a single monthly account fee at the average bank. So the alternative is one of those check-cashing places, which takes a chunk of your money off the top. Another example is, let's say work boots. A factory worker must purchase steel-toed boots, at her own expense, to work in a factory. The good quality boots that will last 5 years cost upwards of $150, while the poor quality boots that will hold up for only a few months costs more like $30. Over that five years, the worker may have to replace the poor quality boots perhaps twice a year, or ten times. After 5 years, the employee has spent $300. If you're thinking in the long-term, you'd shell out the $150 for a single pair of boots that will last you. However, if all you have is $30 and you have to get to work tomorrow... you find yourself in a position of spending more money in the long run because you don't have much money to spend in the first place. Ehrenreich doesn't even touch on the cost-ineffectiveness of living in by-the-week hotels. Everywhere I've lived, it's a much better economical decision to live in a leased apartment. She could have gotten some roommates, culled together a deposit between 2-3 people, and shared utilities and rent (which is a whole other can of worms that she didn't open either -- sharing responsibility for expenses with people who are as broke as you are makes for some very interesting socio-economic dynamics).
1	1338422400	I'm going to chime in with another negative review, because there can't be too many negative reviews of this book.  This book was on my senior high school English reading list back in 2002-2003.  At this time in my life, I was not yet very politicized, nor was I completely up-to-date on current events.Despite my ignorance at the time, I found Ehrenreich's work to be deeply offensive.  This was mostly because both my mother and my father had been working the types of jobs that Ehrenreich whined about throughout her book their entire lives.  Don't get me wrong, I'm absolutely not saying that since my dad worked at Wal-Mart that nobody should have the right to criticize the place.  No, no, that's not the question. My big question as I was reading in high school is the same as my big question now, almost 10 years later: why on earth did Ehrenreich feel the need to "go undercover" to work these jobs and describe her experience?There are hundreds of thousands of perfectly capable and articulate people working minimum wage jobs all over the country who would have been happy to sit down with Ehrenreich at a local caf&eacute; to talk about their working and living conditions.Did she think that her position as a "journalist" would intimidate people and make them clam up?  Or does she think that the divide between the rich and the poor in the United States is so great that a middle class person would not be capable of empathizing with a Wal-Mart associate without some sort of mediator with whom to identify?Why go to the trouble of telling other people's stories rather than letting them tell their own stories?  Minimum wage workers are not mute.  They just don't have the same means as Ehrenreich to get media attention.  Giving people the tools to tell their own stories and have them heard is much more powerful and constructive than Ehrenreich's attempt at a social critique.Rather than exposing poverty in America, she manages to silence the poor by claiming the spotlight for herself.  The poor remain anonymous and the only story we hear is of a privileged journalist going "undercover" to tell the story of our parents, our brothers, our sisters, and our own stories--without permission--and to take all the credit for it.
4	1337558400	Even if not 100% accurate of life in the slow lane, at least the author took on the subject.  My close friend grew up poor (one poor, troubled mother --- not one other relative), was lucky (scholarships to college and grad. school due to grades/tests).  Yet, still, no job.  No interviews despite an excellent Masters in a recently "hot" field.  It cooled off while in school and his fellow grads averaged 5 years experience.  He worked his way up with difficulty and made good money by his 30s.  Wife and kids.  Long hours and good money.  Long hours led to divorce.  Depression (real depression) over not seeing his kids.  No safety net except savings (decimated by the stock market and 401-K penalties and falling housing prices).  Out of work as field of work decimated by economy.He was back to "white trash" despite being very smart, sophisticated, nice, well educated, and hard working.  Looked fine.  Increasing age didn't help as employers wanted young and cheap.  Suddenly, no health insurance.  Cataracts?  Bad luck.  Depression?  Too bad.  Sleep apnea?  That's tough.  Cap broke?  Gold is expensive now.Apply for the modest amount of money/health insurance associated with SS disability.  Shockingly, a no answer after a real long time of waiting.  Gov't. doesn't want to pay citizens in need despite world's largest economy.  Suicide considered and discarded.  Trying to hold on to a roof over his head now.  That goes and he's "dead."  Living with fear.Over a trillion spent by U.S. on the Mideast wars, but no gov't health insurance after paying in a mint over the years.  And  certain politicians (probably well off) want to give even less to those who fall in the cracks.  Maybe 40 million Americans without health insurance and underemployed.  Meanwhile, prep school babies (the 2nd Bush?) thrive and get multiple chances and have wealth, inheritance  and "daddy."  Let Bush do without food (and alcohol) for just 48 hours.  What's wrong with us as a nation?And don't call it socialism --- not that there's anything wrong with "socialism" or "Obama Care" --- Finland is a better place to live than here as per leading magazine --- socialism, money, low military costs, and best school system in world.  They live longer, too.  Longest live in Japan --- gov't health care and they spend less on it than us.More books like this need to be written.P.S.  Outlaw lobbyists.  (Sorry for the anger.)
3	1336780800	I had the same reaction as many of the other reviewers. It's almost as if the author was determined to see everything through a pretty jaundiced lens. Not everyone working for 'the man' is part of the problem.Still, this is an important book in terms of understanding how fortunate many of us are. Thankfully, I don't have to try to survive on minimum wageI laud the author for sparking such an important discussion.
3	1336521600	This book is way overrated. It should not be rated by 1,000+ people and  receive 5 stars. I would also like to add that I read this book in a sociology class and it is liberally biased, as the  field of sociology is liberally biased.I rated this book a three because it is unique and well-written, though after a while you will get sick of Ehrenreich's constant over supply of wit and humor. Barb, a middle-class writer with a PhD, decides to do a writing project where someone goes to work in low pay working class jobs. She starts in Key West, Florida, then goes to Maine and then Minneappolis, staying at the jobs for 3-6 months and then moving. It is a struggle to find affordable apartments but she has an easy time of finding jobs, though only for around $7 an hour. At $7 an hour, it is difficult to pay for rent and food at the same time and she always tries to find two jobs. Low wage work, according to Ehrenreich, steals your soul. She didn't actually say this but it is my interpretation. It is physically and emotionally demanding and she thinks it is disgusting that in a rich country like America people work in jobs that can't give a full living. She is a left-wing social democrat.The book is mildly entertaining and should be read for its sociological value. The writing flows smoothly, but his saturated with Ehrenreich's attempt at humor and wit and creative writing EVERY second. If you are a passionate, left-wing democrat, then definitely read this book. I would also encourage non left-wingers to read this book to broaden your horizon, if you can withstand her writing-style. This book however, is way overrated and does not deserve the acclaim it has.One problem with the book is that Ehrenreich jumps out of nowhere and starts her life over in new locations, starting out at the bottom of the wage scale. In my opinion, this is somewhat realistic, because normally people start out when they are young and work for a company for several years, moving up the wage scale. If this is not how your life goes, then your own economic plight is your own fault and is not deserving of sympathy.Ehrenreich ends the book on the last page by saying that the American underclass is underpaid and should rise up and fight the capitalists and if this were to happen would be a great day. She is liberally biased, so be warned.
3	1335744000	I'm in college and needed a specific book for my book report. I have purchased a book on amazon before and was completely satisfied. This time around I found a great selection of the book I was looking for at fantastic prices. Even as new they were great prices. I needed the book asap so that I could get my project done on time, so I purchased a new one as opposed to the used ones and purchased the shipping and handeling that I should have recieved the book no more than 5 days later. A couple weeks go by and still no book. I emailed the seller and they told me they were sorry and that it must have got lost in the mail somehow so they were sending me another one which took about 6 days more. To my surprise it was a very used book with writting in it and old brownish yellow pages from dust or what not. The seller was extremely nice and concerned of my satisfaction with my book. I let them know that the book that I still payed for was not new so they told me they would send me a new copy of it and it's been almost TWO weeks now. And keep in mind, that shipment was coming from a place about an hour away from where I live.
4	1335571200	Barbara Ehrenreich absolutely blew my mind with her real-life experiences in the book Nickel and Dimed.  Ehrenreich is the author, who writes for a living in a very high-class, cushy life.  She is challenged to give it all up and try to make it as an "unskilled" worker anywhere in the United States.Not only does she experience everything to the extreme, but she tries a variety of jobs that made me think.  Many of the things she discusses are things that I experienced in my high school jobs waitressing at a variety of establishments.  She literally reminded me of some of the horrific things I experienced in my earlier days as a minimum wage employee.  The book is GREAT!
2	1335398400	I began this book while in college as a class assignment but my sustained disapproval of this work continues into my career.  Sadly college professors in labor relations, sociology, and liberal arts disciplines continue to prescribe this book as a lesson in work to their two audiences which are a poor fit: 1) privileged readers who the professor believes will be awakened with awareness of working-wage jobs or 2) readers who have or are currently working one of these service-industry jobs that are insulted by being asked to read such a work.  My belief this book has such repulsed me is that I am part of group #2 and the author is group #1.The fact that Ehrenreich believes she is the appropriate author to write about working-wage jobs to show her audience an appreciation for it is a misstep on behalf of her publisher.  Many readers have depended on such a job and could describe them in such terms as Ehrenreich decides to elaborate upon.  A person with the luxury of studying for such a career as Ehrenreich has benefited from and trying these jobs as research for her book proves that she truly has little appreciation for the experience.  People who have occupied these jobs do so to survive--some truly enjoy them and thrive--the majority of them cannot rest easily with the comfort of knowing they can fall back on the lifestyle of an accomplished author.My appreciation for the book does go to Ehrenreich's skill in describing the tasks that she completes in very elaborate terms.  Her appreciation for those that work so hard to have served her seems genuine but I believe she is the wrong person to deliver such a message--I would have much rather read it from the viewpoint of a person who spent a long time in one of these positions acquiring literary skill later in life to bring their story to market.  The reverse, which is attempted in this book, seems like "faking it."
4	1335225600	I have to admit I read only an excerpt from this book when it was first published, and I share some of the other reviewers' concerns about how someone with the ultimate safety net (a lot more money, a professional life) could possibly appreciate the experience of living without one ... and with kids to raise, to boot.But I just read that this book was banned in 2011, and so I'm commenting to say that I think it is IMPERATIVE that people read this book and think about WHO would want to ban it, and why. It was on the American Library Association's list of the top 10 books being challenged last year, with the reasons given as "drugs, inaccurate, offensive language, political viewpoint, religious viewpoint." Presumably some readers objected to Ehrenreich's "godless" criticism of capitalism!
2	1334102400	I thought it would be interesting to read how the working poor get manage in our society. The author did give a good accounting of many of the hardships the working poor face. But, this was a very hard book to get through. The author seemed to have a derogatory attitude about just about everyone with whom she was in contact. She assumes poor people are illiterate and stupid. Managers are sadistic. She describes wal-mart customers as obscenely fat. Christians are miserly and cruel. People who hired maids are paranoid and elitist. She seems to think people go to stores to create unnecessary work for her and her co-workers. It never seems to occur to her that anyone has a valid reason for needing the services she is providing in any of her jobs.Another aspect of this author's delivery was her ever present feeling that she was about to be found out because she is just too smart. She was always convinced of being the smartest person in the room if not the city in which she resided. She fancied herself an undercover academic blending in with the sweaty masses of uncultured, boorish slobs of society. But, here is the funny part, whenever she finished a stint as a waitress, or a maid, or a wal-mart worker and came out to her co-workers, no one was particularly surprised or impressed. Her confessions were met with mild amusement. She is a legend and a maverick in her own mind.
5	1332892800	I have my undergraduates read part of this book (and some go on to read the rest). Many of my students don't initially appreciate how difficult many adults and children have it. Because many of my students are going to be teachers working in high poverty schools, it is important that they understand the issues that low wage workers have. This book's personalized account, written from the point of view of someone who otherwise is not a low wage worker, helps them bridge the gap between their own limited experience and low income families more easily. I wish there was a follow-up.
5	1331856000	Go behind the scene at a Diner, at a nursing home, as a maid, a cleaning person, a Wal-Mart associate.  A thought provoking read as timely today as when it was written.
3	1330214400	I got the book for a class. It came just like it said it should which like never happens. Its a good book not something I would pick to read but it has me going.
5	1329955200	I know what you're thinking. Ugh, another boring, irrelevant, old book on the economy. It's going to be soooo boring! I thought this as well when I was assigned to read Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich. While my class was supposed to finish the book over a course of a week, I finished it in three days. Typically, some ideas and terms about the economy go right over my head. However, this time, I connected and understood everything Ms. Ehrenreich wrote. Even though it was written more than 10 years ago, I was astonished and fascinated by how it still applies to life and the economy today in 2012! That's crazy. Despite the crashing of the housing bubble and the recession that ensued, life for the working poor has not changed all too much. In this book, Ms. Ehrenreich lives like a member of the working poor class, not only taking the numerous jobs they typically occupy, but also trying to main a real lifestyle one would really have. She struggles to maintain her job, feed herself, or even pay for shelter. I won't say more because I don't want to ruin it, but it is great! Everyone who is considering reading it should definitely pick it up and start. I promise by page four, you won't want to put it down and you'll be down quickly! In truth, you may feel bad and guilty, as the way you nosedive into the life of the working poor is shocking and heart breaking. However, it is an eye opener everyone has to experience. Soon, you will realize the struggles your waitress or house cleaner faces each and every day and maybe you might treat/tip them better. You may even reflect on our your own and society's prejudices and discriminations and how that influences what you think about a certain race or gender, or how you conceive your idea of someone who deserves to be part of the working poor. While the economy changes every year, this economics book is a classic for the ages for readers of all ages. Nickel and Dimed is a must read! Buy it now as Amazon sells it cheap!
5	1329523200	"Nickel and Dimed" was originally released over a decade ago, before 9/11 and the Bush administration zapped the economy and got us into dual Middle East wars.  Now that the gap between the rich and everyone else is wider than ever and we've had the worst job situation since the Great Depression, Barbara Ehrenreich's book is even more compelling and relevant.Ms. Ehrenreich decided to see for herself how the so-called "working poor" managed to make ends meet with a minimum wage.  So she assumed a new identity and tried jobs such as waitressing, house cleaning, and selling clothes for Wal-Mart in different parts of the country.  She discovered an entire class of people barely scraping by that were routinely viewed with suspicion by employers and treated accordingly.We follow the author as she gets to know various coworkers in the abovementioned occupations.  Sure, she encounters a couple of bad apples.  But many more were simply regular folks who for whatever reason couldn't quite grasp the brass ring of a comfortable lifestyle, like single mothers, immigrants, young people, and those who got knocked down by a couple of bad breaks.  And while these jobs kept them from destitution, the low pay and lack of benefits didn't grease their way to the high life.Issues?  Well, I didn't like the fact that Ms. Ehrenreich had a tendency to be a rabble-rouser with her co-workers.  It was easy enough for her to rile people up by slamming bosses or talking of unionizing when she knew her involvement was temporary and she would soon retreat back to her higher-end literary lifestyle.  But what of those she left behind holding the bag?  For their sake at least, Ms. Ehrenreich should have kept a lower profile vs. stirring up the pot and then fleeing the kitchen.Despite its age and the previous paragraph's ding, "Nickel and Dimed" is a worthwhile read for those in the middle and upper classes who wonder about the folks (or judge them harshly) who occupy the jobs they wouldn't do unless it was their only choice.  Recommended.
5	1329177600	Although I have worked in the past in settlement houses in poverty stricken areas, and faced the difficulty of being a single mom to two boys, I was still ignorant of the plight of the masses earning only minimum wage.  "Nickel and Dimed" by Barbara Ehrenreich reveals a world of people trying to keep body and soul together, sometimes on two full-time jobs, who remain, for the large part, invisible to those of us who are more economically comfortable.  Taking the reader through a series of jobs she held, such as cleaning houses, working at Walmart and in restaurants, she reveals a work place that is physically and psychologically strenuous to the breaking point.  She also dispels myths of the "working poor" that find the middle class blaming them for their situation.  Her concise, crisp, no-holds barred rhetoric makes for eye-opening reading.  Anyone who questions the terrible state of this country's economy would do well to read her words.
5	1329091200	For the people who are privileged they have no idea of what real life and real struggle in, how hard the people that serve you work to make ends meet. This give you a view of reality for the non elite people of America.
5	1328227200	Having just attempted to get through the book Malled (had to chuck it half way through) I felt the urge to stop by here and write a review on Nickel and Dimed, which I read when it first was published. Read this book. It is tragic. So many people working hard and trying to do the best they can only to be confronted with appalling work conditions and tiny paychecks that don't have enough money to sustain the most humble lifestyle.There are so many important and meaningful jobs that pay paltry wages and yet the people who have ample incomes not only expect the employees to give their best, but they frequently treat those doing the jobs as other than human.I recall clearly the time that the president of the company where I work stood up and made a big deal out of the fact that after some 20 years of walking past the security guard at the entrance that they guy was an actual human being with a name. He was quite proud that he had introduced himself and now "made the day" of that guy by saying hello. It was all I could do not to jump up to the podium and give Mr. President a smack down.I am lucky enough to have a well paying job that affords a comfortable lifestyle. Many of my friends are not. Every person doing a job is a complex human being who deserves our respect. Sure, some low wage workers are grouchy and rude but my experience has always been that those folks are few and far between (and I have found many more self important, ill mannered people amongst my white collar co-workers).So, once again, read this book. I hope it will resonate with you regardless of your position in life.
2	1327363200	The premise of this book was fascinating: a reporter and author leaving her comfortable life to try to live on jobs paying close to minimum wage. Unfortunately, while she did make some interesting points at times, I was not especially compelled bye her work.Don't get me wrong. I agree with Ehrenreich on a lot of things. I have no problem with the assertion that in many ways the system is broken and that poverty isn't simply a problem one can get out of by working harder. But can an incredibly complex problem be fixed by a simple solution (pay everyone a living wage)? I have my doubts.  However it is presented in the book as essentially the vaccine to solve society's ills. My response: good luck with that.Also frustrating to me was Ehrenreich's frequent editorializing. While I understand that the author's personality will always show through their work, when someone presents their book as a piece of investigative journalism I think some effort should be made to mitigate this. In this case the author gave full vent to her opinions and feelings, which were more distracting than helpful.The book did contain some thoughts that were helpful, but this were often from a managerial perspective than an economic one. Her accounts of dealing with management and some of the corporate policies she encountered was a good reminder that what sounds good in the boardroom is often ultimately unhelpful on the ground floor.The work reads quickly for a book of 200 pages, and so if you have a few hours and looking for something to read, you could do worse. However, if you are pressed for time, I'd suggest you find something a little more useful.
4	1327190400	The author spent about a year working various minimum wage jobs in a few states (maid, Walmart, waitress and maybe a couple of others). Her experience shows that it is near-impossible to survive on  really low wage jobs in the U.S. People who have no concept of what it is like to be poor in America (and working your butt off at hard jobs, no less), will educate themselves by reading this book. "Pull yourself up by your bootstraps?" How? Those ignorant of the miserable and hard existence one has doing minimum wage jobs will realize what an insensitive remark this is. A country which allows its poorest citizens to be in this rotten situation is inhumane. The author's final conclusion can be summed up in a few words: Wages are too low and rents are too high.
5	1326585600	Loved the book - a brave social experiment by someone who's very upfront about some of the inauthenticities (she's got health insurance, money in the bank, can back out whenever she wants).  The best parts lie in the stories of others and their hardships as they try to make ends meet in what seems to be a complex system that keeps workers between a rock and a hard place.This book is pre-Bush tax cuts, Great Recession, and Occupy Wall Street, yet speak to the growing divide between the haves and have-nots.  Ehrenreich adeptly shows how consumers in America, used to $10 shirts from sweatshops in Asia, more and more expect the same from the people working "for" them.
5	1324944000	A great look into the working poor in America, their struggles.  This book is a must-read for every American!  This book will remain on my bookshelf for re-reading and referencing.
5	1324512000	I thought this book was fascinating. The author, who is also a journalist, spends a year living on the minimum wage and trying to make ends meet while staying in motels and trailers. She shows how difficult it is to manage and depicts it all in her book. A real eye-opener.
5	1324425600	My book arrived really fast plus it looks brand new. It's funny I usually rent my book from Chegg or other websites but it's cheaper to buy them on Amazon. Thank you!
4	1324080000	I needed this book for a college assignment. I got the cook cheap through Amazon and it was in great condition. And the book ended up being really good.
1	1322611200	I did not enjoy this book. I found the author annoying, pretentious, and self-righteous. She starts the book by saying that she did not want to take part in this and when she had the idea she didn't mean herself.She sets up too many ground rules, making the experiment completely unrealistic. Do you think that someone working for 6/hr gets a start up fee? No, they barely make it from their parental homes (if they make it out at all.) They don't have a guaranteed car, and yes the bus may bore the author but its realistic.The author comments that she thinks she will be found out because of her vocabulary, so she tones it down. She mocks others based on their lack of understanding, such as mocking a cook for going to "coronary" school. She feels the need to plan the seeds of a union at Wal-Mart. I appreciate that she climbed down from her throne to try to better the lives of the little people. Did she consider that if those employees decided to strike for a union that they would lose their jobs?Also, when she gets ill she calls her doctor at home to call in a prescription.This entire book was an unrealistic venture into the world of the working class. If you would like to see an actual study, refer to Morgan Spurlocks FX sitcom "30 Days." Watch the episode in which he and his fianc&eacute; lived making 6/hr each.(less)
4	1322611200	I read the book "Nickle and Dimed on Not Getting by in America" by Barbara Ehrenreich. This book is written by a journalist who went undercover as a working low class, middle-aged woman. She did the "old-fashioned" type of journalism, where instead of just researching her topic, she decided to actually endure the pressures of her topic. Whether that was by force of employers or not, she did the project full-heartedly. She moved from location to location getting the highest paying job she could get without stating her actual school history. She tried to live off of her money she made at this job without using any money from her credit cards or previous money. The intellectual level of this book is academic and novice. The reason I say that it can be both is that it is simple enough for someone with no economic background to read it, but it can also be a great read for someone with economic background. I believe this book was pretty good. I would recommend it to anyone, because it gives you a great way to look at life. Because of reading this book, I can appreciate the working low class so much more. I knew before that people do live paycheck to paycheck, but I never realized exactly how bad off their lives can be. Most of these people did not chose to have these lives or these jobs. People often treat them as if it is there own fault for having these jobs, but that is not always true. Things do happen to prevent people to go to college or to even complete high school. This book definitely gave me a greater appreciation for these people.Breanne Newcomb
4	1320796800	It's no news flash to say that in 2011, trying to get by solely on a minimum wage job is almost, if not entirely, impossible. So then why does immersing oneself in this improbable situation manage to capture our attention still? Morgan Spurlock showed it couldn't be done on his show "30 Days" in which he and his fiance endured the hardship, for a terrible month, of living off of $7.50 an hour. When, as an American, I see shows and read stories discussing people deliberately trying to live solely off of minimum wage job and come to the jarring conclusion that it "simply cannot be done",  I somehow feel as though my intelligence has been insulted. I needed to spend an hour watching a documentary to tell me this?!So then what makes Barbara Ehrenreich's immersion memoir "Nickel and Dimed" different? On first glance it has all the parts for a very formulaic read: upper middle class writer decides to live more-or-less on the poverty line and then write a book detailing her hardships. The first and foremost essential quality surrounding Ehrenriech's book is her irony and knowledge that she is a poser in the world of real Americans that have to deal with this, and after her little experiment, she gets to go back to her locked doors and full fridge. Her scrutiny on herself and the limits of this escapade that she points out to the reader circumvent the readers creeping thoughts concerning the redundancy of her topic. What sets apart her memoir even further is her commentary more on how workers are treated by their employers (the hours, the mentality of ruler vs ruled) which distracts the reader from her short tirades of her inability to find affordable housing. It's not to say that in her tirade against her employers she is advocating for some sort of Communist revolution, but its with these little diversions in her writing that the reader find themselves more wrapped up in the story rather than an uninvolved readership.Not to say that her memoir is perfect; not at all. There are moments when Ehrenriech begins to travel to place of self-pity in which the reader is left telling themselves "But you get to leave this. Stop complaining when you have an out". Its in these moment that she loses the reader, if only for a moment, and we are once again feeling the frailty of her whole argument.But that's also because this book was written in 2001, and I read this last week. My mentality and awareness for the current economic situation of America is completely different to what it was when Bush was in office. It was most likely shocking in sorts, to read that minimum-wage was more like "bare minimum-wage" and the housing conditions in which whole families often find themselves. But just because this book was written almost ten years ago, the message itself is not circumvented by time. If anything, given the recession and constantly fluxing stock market, the hardships that Ehrenreich highlights in her memoir have increased due to an even tighter labor and housing market. The relate-ability  to this topic that Ehrenreich establishes is felt amongst the throngs of readers who have ever had to work in the conditions that she herself faces.
1	1320624000	This book is very sorry book I had to read for English class and as for the writter she doesn't even go all the way with her project by living off min-wage job. She has car and home to start off with fancy laptop if she really want to put herself in someone's shoes than she really should have. Who does this lady think she is judging others. When being a white lady makes easier to get a job in the first place.
1	1320451200	We all like to read lists -- so here's my review in list form:Pro:- Ehrenreich writes well and keeps her adventures entertaining- Gives a bit of real-world insight on the jobs she worksCon:- Ehrenreich loves to talk about Ehrenreich. Shameless self-promotion throughout the book (mentions that she has a PhD several times)- Not convincing. You can't help but notice how much of a farce her exploits really are- If you are not extremely liberal, you may not enjoy how Ehrenreich writes of certain events. Moreover, she cites a study by the ACLU (I didn't even know anyone took the ACLU seriously anymore)- Ehrenreich boasts somewhat of her drug use. She bashes companies for requiring drug tests and then complains about how she has to pay $30 to purchase detox products to rid her system of the marijuana she smokes.Overall, this work is what one would expect if Tyra Banks wrote a book about how she dressed up like an obese woman and went into the streets for a day to see how society treats overweight individuals (that episode really happened, by the way). It's an easy read, but I can't say it's actually worth the time. Considering it a "landmark" is absolutely ridiculous.
4	1319760000	Unlike other economic books Barbara Ehrenreich tells us the truth behind the American Dream through her book "Nickel and Dimed: On (not) getting by in America. Taking on odd, minimum wage jobs she shows us how difficult it is for one to survive in America on a minimum waged salary. She tell us the truth that no one seems to have the guts to tell us. This book is highly recommended to those who want to inform themselves on how our economy really functions.
4	1318982400	I received it with written notes and highlighted phrases that distracted me from my reading. But then I remembered that I paid two dollars for it so it's fine. The book is really good too! Ehrenreich's style is great.
1	1318550400	What an odd book (actually I listened to the CD version). Too often demeaning, less empathtic, mostly an overtone of distance.Also, maybe this task would have been best done by someone, who either through self, family, or friends, had been touched by poverty, or Alzheimers. Poverty is not a swimming pool you can put your toe in and feel satisfied you know the temperature.
5	1318291200	As a Canadian, I always had a greener pastures view of america, i cant believe how difficult life is for the american lower class. this book is very informative, insightful, and well-written.
2	1318204800	I read this book a few years ago for one of my classes in college.The idea: a woman would give up all of the privilege and comforts of life to investigate the impoverished masses of America. Sounds brilliant, except the execution and dedication Ehrenreich puts into the book is sickeningly low.In the beginning, she sets rules to safeguard herself from actual injury or any dangerous situation, but it turns into an easy cop out whenever Ehrenreich was presented with a situation that was unappealing to her, yet these situations would have vastly improved the read for the audience and improved our gained knowledge from her experience. It may be that I have an unpopular opinion of investigative journalism, but I feel like if you're going to commit to something like this you have to commit with a Hunter S. Thompson level of dedication.Bottom-line: Fantastic idea, but poorly executed.
3	1317600000	i got it for my wife. so liked it so i quickly read it.upper middle class tourist into the bottom wages jobs.ok. descriptive enough, she is a good writer. not nearly as much commentary on why people live like this nor why society and other people should care.this is a big problem, the book just barely is an introduction to the issues and little about how to help or care about the people stuck there.
4	1317513600	This book was interesting and the author was very accurate in describing the difficulties of the working lower class. My only complaint about this book is that she (in my opinion) did not spend a lot of time working each job. I think this book would have been more interesting had the author followed several workers in different industries for a period of a year or so.
4	1316908800	Walking my dog last night I crossed paths with a young man wearing a Walmart associate's shirt and reflective vest, carrying a lunch box.  He nodded, made a comment about my dog and I looked in his face and saw what appeared to be just an all American guy. After reading this book, I considered the author's experience and the probable similarity of circumstances of this guy's.  He was on foot, headed into the seedy, red-light district of town where cheap motels and used car lots line the street.  It made me wonder if Walmart deliberately plants itself in socio-economically disadvantaged locals in order to attract people willing to accept low pay with no future?  Is Walmart exploiting people or providing jobs for the disadvantaged?  Seems they are exploiting the disadvantaged.
5	1316304000	It seems as though Republicans don't like this book. From all the one-star reviews, it seems as though they want the poor to live poorly.I worked at Walmart for three years in Minnesota and I can tell you that everything she said about Walmart is pure fact. Walmart associates, starting out, only  make 50 cents more than minimum wage. And that's at pay-grade three (out of seven). Those at pay-grade two or one make only a few cents more than minimum wage. On top of that, they have to put up with being treated poorly by management and have to take a lot of abuse from customers. "Save money and live better" is a slogan only for the Walton family. They save money by paying their associates a little higher than minimum wage and get to cruise around in their yachts because of that.I'm glad Barbara Ehrenreich wrote this book. I'd love to see more people write about how bad the poor have it and hopefully we can get something to change in this country.
1	1316217600	My wife bought this book and kept talking about how smart this author is and how compelling her argument is. 'Life isn't fair' and 'The system is stacked against the common person' seems to be her main points. To prove this, the author decides to put herself in the position of a minimum wage earner to see if someone can still earn a decent living. The problem is she is only playing a part that she already has defined in her head. As my wife starts telling me how bad this woman had it because her job doesn't pay her enough for rent on some tiny apartment, the first thing I asked is 'how many room mates did she have? None. Did she split the cost of anything with friends or co workers? No.At this point the premise of the book loses all credibility. Instead of showing that a person can't survive on minimum wage, she only proved that someone WITH money would have real trouble adjusting to life without it. I should say SOME people would have trouble. Yeah, sharing expenses, rent and food with people is a hassle, but the reason people do these things, especially when they are young and in the position of the author, is because there is An economy of scale that works in your favor.A more genuine look at this question and the right answer can be found in 'Scratch Beginnings' which was written by someone younger and more willing to put up with the actual circumstance and mindset of a person in this position.
3	1315872000	i actually found this book to be very thought provoking. Many of us assume that if one works hard, even at a low paying job, they will be able to live modestly, but well. This author may not have the most polished approach to telling a story but the experiment in trying to live on poverty wages is illuminating. Many, many Americans are working as hard as they can but the obstacles the system places in the way are often insurmountable. It is disheartening, and in many situations, simply a cruel life to have to live. I recommend this book to anyone who shares the idea that the poor are simply lazy and do not have the drive to succeed.
4	1315699200	Book arrived in perfect condition, perfect packaging and it also arrived fast. Not even near the date it said it would. I would buy from them again
1	1315353600	Boooooring!!!!!!  My son had to read this for summer reading so I decided to take a look.  I could barely keep my eyes open, let alone if I was a 17 year old. Author is too focused on making sure the reader knows she has a vast vocabulary and, to add insult to injury, each incredibly long chapter is exactly the same as the next. Absolutely horrible!
2	1315267200	Now what I really want to blog about today is the book "Nickel and Dimed" by Barbara Ehrenreich. I started to read this book recently, as it has been recommended by various people since I started this job. Barbara is a journalist who decides that she is going to give up her "normal life" for a life of poverty, low-wage jobs, and motel hopping. In the introduction, she explains her "rules" for this experiment. This is where my concern begins. I think the concept of this book is beautiful, however it is explored in a condescending, hypocritical sense. Barbara puts herself into a stereotype of poverty in the character she chooses to play in this new way of life, she introduces herself as a "divorced homemaker reentering the workforce after many years." She decides not to recognize her Ph.D. education when meeting with employers and potential employers, which she claims on pg 5 she feared would lead employers to think she was "an alcoholic washout or worse." In her rules, Barbara claims that homelessness or living in cars is not an option for her and if she got to that point she would "cheat". In real life, people living in poverty and at low wages often fall into situations where they really have no choice but to live in shelters or cars. The fact that she can easily pull herself out of this option makes the experience unrealistic. She also allows herself a savings that she can use in emergencies, whereas most people who are actually in poverty stricken situations do not have the luxury of a backup account, they live paycheck to paycheck, and have no "cheat" or escape from where they are. Otherwise, they would not be living in poverty.I understand that she is sincerely addressing stereotypes in this intro, but my concern develops greater as the book continues. I began highlighting and taking notes at pg 101. I was aggravated with the her quote "Plus, since my apartment, though rented as "furnished", contained almost no kitchen items when I moved in, I was forced to acquire my own inventory of spatula, can opener, "utility knife," broom, etc., at Wal-Mart." I feel that a furnished apartment contains a bed, a refrigerator, a dresser, and maybe a desk. Furnished doesn't mean that it contains everything you need, and nothing about expecting to be handed everything says "living in poverty" to me. I am disgusted by her comment on page 103 "but neither can I have any old food item that might appeal." as she goes on to explain her food options: spaghetti, sauce, canned vegetables, canned beans, a pound of hamburger, and hamburger or tuna helper, however they offer no tuna for the tuna helper. So take the hamburger and hamburger helper, Barbara. What is wrong with any of what they offer? Sounds fairly well rounded to me, and she's not paying for it, so I wonder where she finds it acceptable to complain about what she is able to receive.I am embarrassed by her categorization of working in a nursing home with Alzheimer's patients, "Once you join the residents in forgetting about the functioning humans they once were, you can think of them as a band of wizened toddlers at a tea party." (pg 103). Alzheimer's is not dehumanizing, these "once functioning humans" are still humans. My grandfather had Alzheimer's and I remember recently sitting by his bedside as he told me stories of serving in the military in Italy. He may not have remember every time I saw him that I'm Jackie, but he still remembered some things and he never seemed like a child to me. I find Barbara's description of people with Alzheimer's to be offensive and degrading.I feel as though Barbara looked down upon those who did not have as high of an education as she did. For example, when she is working as a maid in Maine and her team leader Holly hurts her ankle and refuses to get medical help, Barbara says "Should I say, 'Look, I'm actually a highly educated person, a Ph. D., in fact, and I can't just stand by and...?'" I have a hard time believing that her Ph. D. would make Holly's ankle hurt any less or that her journalism education would mean that Holly can afford to take time off from work. Holly tells Barbara that to get this job she had to pass an Accutrac test, whereas Barbara feels this is not a big deal and states in her writing "For all I know the test was a challenge to her at the level of basic literacy." (pg 113.) I find this statement insulting and condescending, as though her high education makes her any better qualified for this job than Holly or any of the other girls on her team.On page 117, she explains that "the poor have disappeared from the culture at large, from its political rhetoric and intellectual endeavors as well as from its daily entertainment." I would say that in this case, she probably has not taken very much time to actually look into culture beyond her own class and economic level. Those in poverty are constantly in the front lines of political issues. I'm not quite sure what she means by the poor disappearing from culture in intellectual endeavors, because for every step of education I've observed in any school, poverty is a highly raised issue and it is always encouraged that those with the skills to fight poverty should do so. Entertainment though? I can't really tell if she wishes poverty were used more in entertainment or if she believes it has decreased and that is a positive thing.Much of her writing appears offensive and condescending to me, such as on page 121, "not to mention, my worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the crap jobs and substandard housing for themselves, as they often do." This comes off as racism disguised as a journalism experiment. In a context that is irrelevant to this post, the words "misplaced hypocrisy" are used on page 138, but I found that those words described perfectly how I felt about this book as a whole.In her time working and living in Minnesota, Barbara's expectations increase in unrealistic ways. She is told that her first shift at a Home Depot like job will be 11 hours, which she refuses to work without overtime pay. Here I feel that she is assuming that every shift will be 11 hours and that she will be working 5 days a week. For all she knows, she could be working 11 hours one day and 4 the next. This was also the highest paying job she was offered in Minnesota, and one of her rules was that she must take the highest paying job she could, however she did not take it because "The embarrassing truth is that I am just too exhausted to work, especially for eleven hours in a row." (pg 149). Poverty, however, does not wait for you to find a job you like, those really living in poverty would have no other choice but to take this job.Judgement never ceases to amaze me in this book. When observing the other occupants of the motel she is staying in, Barbara sees "an older white man in work clothes whose bumper sticker says, 'Don't steal, the government hates competition'- as if the income tax were the only thing keeping him from living at the Embassy Suites right now." (pg 152). What if this man bought his car used and that sticker was already on it? What if he had recently been laid off and was forced to live in this motel? Her immediate judgement of anyone and anything makes me take her points far less seriously than if she were to observe the actual situation without her offensive "wit". She goes on to explain a line of clothing sold in the Wal-Mart where she is working as "seemingly aimed at pudgy fourth-grade teachers with important barbecues to attend." (pg 155). More offensive wit. However in a footnote on page 174, she begins with "Middle-class people often criticize the poor for their eating habits..." and explains how difficult it truly is to eat a well balanced diet, as it is increasingly expensive. So I might even call this hypocritical offensive wit.I almost find that she never takes this experience seriously at all. On page 169 she says "Take away the career and the higher education, and maybe what you're left with is this original Barb, the one who might have ended up working at Wal-Mart for real if her father hadn't managed to climb out of the mines." She doesn't see this job working at Wal-Mart as "real", this isn't her life, which makes me find it hard to believe in her observations or political or social statements on poverty. On page 180, she mocks the honest work ethic of a co-worker who does not use company time for personal use, "What does she think, that the Walton family is living in some hidden room in the back of the store, in the utmost frugality, and likely to be ruined by $21 worth of wasted labor?"She also compares the comfort of knowing that this experience is over soon to the comfort that a terminally ill person may have knowing the prospect of heaven. However, her "poverty" was a choice, whereas a terminal illness and actual poverty are not conscious choices, so I feel it is unfair to even compare these things.I feel like I'm writing a college essay...so IN CONCLUSION, conclusively, or however you choose to begin your conclusion paragraphs, Barbara Ehrenreich in "Nickel and Dimed" takes a journalistic approach to poverty, tries to seem like she's actually living in poverty, the whole time letting the reader know how educated she is, proving that this is not "real life". Poverty in real life is not about the lack of a can opener in your furnished apartment, it is not about being able to afford your way out when you're sick of it, it is not even possible for most people in poverty to reject the offer for a second job regardless of the hours and pay. She already had savings, so creating savings was not a concern of hers, when she was done she could go back to her bank account. In poverty, every second you work is savings, and there is nothing to fall back on when you get tired of being on your feet of fed up with eating the same canned beans for dinner every night. It is a reality every single day, and I did not feel any sense of reality reading this book.
5	1315094400	the book arrived well before the promised time .  it was in fair condition as promised .  the only thing wrong with it was someone got to it with a pink crayon.
5	1314230400	An interesting premise.  Basically, the author tries to live like a low wage worker, even though she is a highly educated upper middle-class person (she hides this fact in resumes, etc).  She does this by traveling away from her home city, and getting a low paying job.  She takes very little with her other than her car.  I think this is an extreme case - like your apt burned to the ground when you were already poor or you just got out of prison with no family or friends to help.  By age 50, even someone with little education is going to have some pots and pans.  That said, its still interesting.  I didn't really learn anything I didn't already know, but it might be an eye opener to some people.  This is the "working poor" and they have their own set of challenges, esp health care.  Well worth a read.  I guess I am not as interested in the "living wage" that the author talks about, but I think the government should provide more services to the working poor.  A living wage would benefit some people who don't really need it, like teenagers working the Summer.  We ALL benefit from these low wage workers, it makes sense that we have to redistribute the wealth a bit.  Personally, I would pay more at WalMart if they treated their workers better.
5	1313971200	This book is awesome, I dont start school until Aug 29th and Ive read the entire book already. Hard to put down, very good reading.  The book itself I purchased was in great shape and very fast shipping.
5	1311638400	I received the book in perfect condition, no wear and tear. It was everything I expected and I loved it from the front cover to the back cover.
4	1309824000	Ordered this bbok for my daughter's required summer reading. Received the book in great condition. The description given regarding the book and condition were spot on. Great service-fast turn around time.
5	1309478400	Hi! I read this book back in 2002 and now own the audio CD of it. I read this book when I was 21 and going to school and was working as a dishwasher. This book made me go back to college and continue with my studies. This is really a great book! I think that eveyone should read it.
5	1309392000	This book is absolutely truthful when describing the dilemma of many; the minimum wage is not even close to being a living wage. The author describes what life was like for her when she was researching this book and tried to survive on the minimum wage. Anyone who thinks workers are lazy or selfish, unintelligent or less human than people with wealth, really ought to have to read this book to understand how the working poor live. It's a very tough life and she portrays it like it is. I found this to be an excellent book, especially in these tough economic times.
1	1309046400	This is part of the New World Order Canon for high school students. It's more ammunition for the idea of redistribution of wealth, which only works until people who get wealth redistributed TO them will eventually get it redistributed FROM them. But I digress.Barbara Ehrenreich and Morgan Spurlock (30 Days on Minimum Wage) sing the same tune about overworked/underpaid Americans. Both of them decide to experiment with a highly restrictive budget for a finite amount of time. They already have a conclusion in place before they set about finding supportive evidence, which "proves" that quality of life and basic sustenance are impossible on minimum wage.I hate to burst their bubble, but.....First, I do know people who have unfortunately lost jobs, or who have had crises that forced them to overextend themselves. And some of these people ended up losing their homes and moving several rungs down on the socioeconomic ladder. These are horrible, heartbreaking experiences that I wish no one had to endure.Second, I also know people who make minimum wage and who also have pretty decent lives, and often they move up, incrementally, until they're making a competitive salary in a job that's interesting and fulfilling.And frankly, some of these people make the conscious choice to work minimum wage jobs, or higher wages/fewer hours, preferring to remain below poverty level because they are also receiving government benefits. You can say what you want, but if you know how to work the System, the System will work for you!Anyway, Ehrenreich, like Spurlock, sets herself up for failure:1. She limits each job experience to one month. One month, even for the most menial, low skilled job, is not enough time to learn not only the job, but the work culture. A lot of employees who start out at minimum are, during that first month, in a probationary position. Once they prove themselves as reliable, consistent and honest workers, the employer would usually rather give them incentives to stay than let them go and start the hiring process all over. It isn't easy to find an employee with a good work ethic. After four weeks, Ehrenreich allows herself to become just another washout.2. I've had minimum wage jobs and I've had terrible bosses. But some of my minimum wage jobs have been pretty good, and I was able to rack up a lot of hours. And some of my bosses were fair-minded and encouraging, too. In fact, some of the bosses were barely making enough to make ends meet. It's a myth that there is a vast peasantry at the bottom and a few fat cats at the top. Often, the owner of the company is trying to keep the business going, and he pays what he can. That's not to say that there are no slave drivers out there, only that Ehrenreich seems to have sniffed out just that one type to work for.3. She's kind of a snob about work. What does she think restaurant, retail and cleaning is? Is she kidding? Does she eat out or buy clothes? The examples she presents are dehumanizing and not fulfilling, etc etc etc. But that's what a LOT of work is. The point of being gainfully employed is to bring home a paycheck, not necessarilly to have fun while doing so. That's a bonus and it should be the goal of everyone--to get paid for following your passion. But we need dishwashers, too, and that's a respectable living.4. One way that minimum wage-earners can claw their way to the top of the heap, or at least the middle, is to pool their resources. The fact is that minimum wage is MINIMAL. But a lot of people I know live together and split the rent, squirrelling away their money so they can afford a better apartment and then a house and then a house with a car...People used to do this all the time. When my Dad was growing up during the Depression, he lived with his parents and siblings in their grandmother's house, with an aunt and a rotation of other relatives that were out of work or had too many mouths to feed. (Of course, for a kid in a hilarious family, this was like being at a party 24/7.) His memories of the Depression are by and large fond, and although he was largely shielded from some of the harsh realities, his family did know enough to band together and help each other. It is only in recent history that the average person believes he's ENTITLED to his own big house and a new car starting on Day 1. No: if that's what you want, sometimes you need to throw in with some other people who can help out.5. Wal-Mart, oh Wal-Mart, what to do with you? At this writing Wal-Mart just "won" a Supreme Court case by having a class-action suit thrown out that addressed their sexist policies. Maybe they're sexist and maybe they're not, whatever. But Ehrenreich is just kind of unglued at the whole mass-retail thing. And yes, I know it's boring to have to sort through all those racks of clothing and process them, but you are making MONEY and you are inside a warm building !!! You are not a child coal miner in a Third World country!6. Ehrenreich does do one service to workers everywhere, which is to cite the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, which "prohibits employers from punishing people for revealing their wages." This is REALLY IMPORTANT, because a lot of places still try to tell new hires that it's "Company policy to never discuss salary." The implication, of course, is that violating company policy can result in disciplinary action. Well, guess what? You can discuss your salary with anyone, and if the company retaliates, they're BREAKING FEDERAL LAW. So that's kind of a good heads-up, right?I know that there have been some Ehrenreich debunkers out there who picked up the gauntlet she threw down and made it a point to live quite well on minimum. I think that's an extreme--most people aren't smart or disciplined enough to do that. You have to have a plan and you have to still be ready for something catastrophic to happen that might throw you completely off.It would be great if another book came out that also achieved best-seller status--a book about how to get by on practically nothing. Not many people will sail through life and never have to worry about doing that, especially at certain phases (just out of college, starting a family, company closes, etc.) I'm not talking about giving people recipes for road-kill, but it would be nice if Ehrenreich's book would be recognized as describing a lifestyle choice, and not a prison sentence.It's too bad that this book is landing on high school reading lists. There's nothing like being 16 and having an authoritative source help you develop cynicism. Then when you do get that minimum wage after school or summer job you can say, "My life s*cks."Or you can be like my kids, who are all gainfully employed students, and you can say, "I have a pretty good job and I'm socking away money--how sweet is that?"
1	1308787200	This is part of the New World Order Canon for high school students. It's more ammunition for the idea of redistribution of wealth, which only works until people who get wealth redistributed TO them will eventually get it redistributed FROM them.  But I digress.Barbara Ehrenreich and Morgan Spurlock (30 Days on Minimum Wage) sing the same tune about overworked/underpaid Americans. Both of them decide to experiment with a highly restrictive budget for a finite amount of time. They already have a conclusion in place before they set about finding supportive evidence, which "proves" that quality of life and basic sustenance are impossible on minimum wage.I hate to burst their bubble, but.....First, I do know people who have unfortunately lost jobs, or who have had crises that forced them to overextend themselves. And some of these people ended up losing their homes and moving several rungs down on the socioeconomic ladder. These are horrible, heartbreaking experiences that I wish no one had to endure.Second, I also know people who make minimum wage and who also have pretty decent lives, and often they move up, incrementally, until they're making a competitive salary in a job that's interesting and fulfilling.And frankly, some of these people make the conscious choice to work minimum wage jobs, or higher wages/fewer hours, preferring to remain below poverty level because they are also receiving government benefits. You can say what you want, but if you know how to work the System, the System will work for you!Anyway, Ehrenreich, like Spurlock, sets herself up for failure:1. She limits each job experience to one month. One month, even for the most menial, low skilled job, is not enough time to learn not only the job, but the work culture. A lot of employees who start out at minimum are, during that first month, in a probationary position. Once they prove themselves as reliable, consistent and honest workers, the employer would usually rather give them incentives to stay than let them go and start the hiring process all over. It isn't easy to find an employee with a good work ethic. After four weeks, Ehrenreich allows herself to become just another washout.2. I've had minimum wage jobs and I've had terrible bosses. But some of my minimum wage jobs have been pretty good, and I was able to rack up a lot of hours. And some of my bosses were fair-minded and encouraging, too. In fact, some of the bosses were barely making enough to make ends meet.  It's a myth that there is a vast peasantry at the bottom and a few fat cats at the top.  Often, the owner of the company is trying to keep the business going, and he pays what he can. That's not to say that there are no slave drivers out there, only that Ehrenreich seems to have sniffed out just that one type to work for.3. She's kind of a snob about work. What does she think restaurant, retail and cleaning is? Is she kidding? Does she eat out or buy clothes? the examples she presents are dehumanizing and not fulfilling, etc etc etc. But that's what a LOT of work is. The point of being gainfully employed is to bring home a paycheck, not necessarilly to have fun while doing so.  That's a bonus and it should be the goal of everyone--to get paid for following your passion. But we need dishwashers, too, and that's a respectable living.4. One way that minimum wage-earners can claw their way to the top of the heap, or at least the middle, is to pool their resources. The fact is that minimum wage is MINIMAL. But a lot of people I know live together and split the rent, squirrelling away their money so they can afford a better apartment and then a house and then a house with a car...People used to do this all the time. When my Dad was growing up during the Depression, he lived with his parents and siblings in their grandmother's house, with an aunt and a rotation of other relatives that were out of work or had too many mouths to feed. (Of course, for a kid in a hilarious family, this was like being at a party 24/7.) His memories of the Depression are by and large fond, and although he was largely shielded from some of the harsh realities, his family did know enough to band together and help each other. It is only in recent history that the average person believes he's ENTITLED to his own big house and a new car from Day 1. No: if that's what you want, you need to throw in with some other people who can help out.5. Wal-Mart, oh Wal-Mart, what to do with you? At this writing Wal-Mart just "won" a Supreme Court case by having a class-action suit thrown out that addressed their sexist policies. Maybe they're sexist and maybe they're not, whatever. But Ehrenreich is just kind of unglued at the whole mass-retail thing. And yes, I know it's boring to have to sort through all those racks of clothing and process them, but you are making MONEY and you are inside a warm building !!! You are not a child coal miner in a Third World country!6. Ehrenreich does do one service to workers everywhere, which is to cite the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, which "prohibits employers from punishing people for revealing their wages." This is REALLY IMPORTANT, because a lot of places still try to tell new hires that it's "Company policy to never discuss salary." The implication, of course, is that violating company policy can result in disciplinary action.  Well, guess what? You can discuss your salary with anyone, and if the company retaliates, they're BREAKING FEDERAL LAW. So that's kind of a good heads-up, right?I know that there have been some Ehrenreich debunkers out there who picked up the gauntlet she threw down and made it a point to live quite well on minimum. I think that's an extreme--most people aren't smart or disciplined enough to do that. You have to have a plan and you have to still be ready for something catastrophic to happen that might throw you completely off.It would be great if another book came out that also achieved best-seller status--a book about how to get by on practically nothing. Not many people will sail through life and never have to worry about doing that, especially at certain phases (just out of college, starting a family, company closes, etc.) I'm not talking about giving people recipes for road-kill, but it would be nice if Ehrenreich's book would be recognized as describing a lifestyle choice, and not a prison sentence.It's too bad that this book is landing on high school reading lists. There's nothing like being 16 and having an authoritative source help you develop cynicism. Then when you do get that minimum wage after school or summer job you can say, "My life s*cks."Or you can be like my kids, who are all gainfully employed students, and you can say, "I have a pretty good job and I'm socking away money--how sweet is that?"
3	1306368000	I read Nickel and Dimed in about a week, which is saying something since I am typically a slow, overly pensive reader. I was very excited to dig into the book, and by the end of part 1, I was still very much on Ehrenreich's "side." But going forward in parts 1 and 2, I grew to actually despise the author's almost adolescent rants about the horrendous "injustices" that low wage employees face at the hands of their conscienceless dark overlords. The further I read, the more I realized that Ehrenreich was either unwilling or unable to make wiser choices that could have been learned in earlier experiences. Eating fast food because you don't have a kitchen? How about a healthier AND cheaper choice of buying a plug in hotpot and a dozen or so $2 cans of organic soup? Rents are not affordable? There are LOTS of classified ads to help you find a roommate. Benefits of a decent roommate: you get a nicer apartment for probably the same price one would pay for a crappy efficiency. Get 3 people to share a 3 bedroom and you'd be in a very nice place for less money. By part three, I was sure the choice to work at Wal-Mart over the hardware store had less to do with "the hours" and more to do with the fact that it is sexier to bash Wal-Mart than a midwest hardware store the rest of the nation hasn't heard of. Again, all this wrapped up in a tone more becoming of a teenager than someone asserting themselves as a social scientist. My other suspicion is theoretical: someone who is accustomed to an upper-middle class lifestyle cannot understand the context of someone who may have little, may have come from very little. The author belittles coworkers who aspire to become team leaders, or believe that they can move vertically within these jobs. She loses me as a reader because of the elitist attitude she presents. "They" are uneducated and helpless, too ignorant to do something to make the situation better. "She" is the only enlightened being who sees the plight of the unwashed masses who clean houses and fold clothes at Wal-Mart. The difference I believe the author misses, is that she has a safety net. She is simply an actress writing a story. "They" do not have a choice. You do your best with a difficult situation. You learn to adapt to adversity and you keep moving forward. Ehrenreich was able to just "quit" and go back to her safe haven. "They" have no safe haven. I don't think she was able to truly immerse herself in the "life of a poor person."I was almost ready to give up, but decided to finish the evaluation, which redeemed the entire book for me. Here, Ehrenreich substitutes platitudes for statistics and policy changes. The facts are presented: housing rates are going up as segments of the population become wealthier, leaving the working lower-class less options for housing. Employment markets are competitive (more demand for labor than supply can handle) and yet wages for the working lower class are not rising in proportion with wages of other population segments. This, unlike the rhetorical drivel from earlier chapters, is what catches my attention and engages me more than the previous 2 parts of the book. I applaud the fact that Ehrenreich made an attempt to uncover life of the under-skilled working class. The book was well written, easily readable. Perhaps I guiltily enjoyed parts 2 and 3 in spite of its irksome qualities, simply because in the present days of internet anonymity, arguing can be enjoyable. It could have harkened to a thread on Facebook of going back and forth with a friend over politics or religion.
5	1304380800	I don't particularly like this book, but had to read it for a class. It's not a bad read, I just get frustrated with the situations and the author's viewpoints. Not a book I would read for leisure.
4	1304294400	Barbara Ehrenreich does a phenomenal job explaining how the Welfare reform of 1996 affects those who are trying to live off welfare or the salaries of minimum wage jobs. This book is an eye-opening, realistic look at the issues that thousands of Americans face each and every day.
4	1302998400	I have been very intrigued by the amount of vitriol aimed at Barbara Ehrenreich because of her latest book challenging the promise and data on the health benefits of positive thinking. This inspired me to read Nickel and Dimed. Read this book and you will discover that this intelligent, civic minded woman has done more to raise awareness on the plight of the low-wage and impoverished working class in America than every card waving member of positive psychology.Every member of the senate and congress should read this book before they pass judgment on the usefulness of government. Every high school student should read this book to understand the underbelly of societal messages transmitted by government and the media. This book provides a candle in the dark on the invisible people who work as hard as possible, show as much integrity as possible, but still cannot climb out of poverty. There is another group of impoverished people that do not qualify in this group (e.g., social loafers) but that is a story for another book.Its also worth mentioning that except for Infinite Jest, this book has the best batch of footnotes in any book I have read in the past decade.Finally, Barbara does a fantastic job in the prologue and epilogue in how her journalistic work is biased and how best to interpret her anecdotal stories and personal experiences. Kudos to her for considering the criticism in advance and laying out the biases in such a clear, coherent manner.cheers,Todd
2	1302825600	As entertaining as the book sounds and can be at times, I advise you for the sake of valued and limited time to flip to the end entitled, Evaluation. This last and smallest section of the book is in fact the point of the experience documented throughout.
4	1301356800	Through her evaluation, I think that Ehrenreich found what she was looking for over the course of her investigation.  She found that it is not likely to break the bounds of working for the minimum wage.  Futhermore, she shows that people who are receiving federal benefits are not the bums that the middle class makes them out to be.  People receiving federal assistant are workers just like Ehrenreich was.  Above all, this revelation of the "working poor" is what made the book worthwhile to me.  The book depicted that the stereotype of a person on welfare that I held is not only wrong but less common than I could have ever fathomed.  Welfare recipients are not merely lazy, unemployed, drug addicts but people that work hard every day of the week, 360 days a year.  Ehrenreich changed my view of federal assistant programs.The opening section of Nickel and Dimed consists of Ehrenreich waiting tables at multiple hole in the wall restaurants from Miami to Maine.  The common theme Barbra encountered was middle aged waitresses unable to escape the vicious cycle of living week to week.  The low wages and miniscule tips these waitresses live off of make it nearly impossible to build any financial stability.  Throughout the opening section I had the constant image of waitresses in Waffle House restaurants.  Often near highways and interstates the Waffle House offers nothing more than what Barbra encountered; poverty stricken waitresses living week to week unable to financially better themselves.  While traveling last summer I frequented many Waffle Houses along Interstate 75, from Toledo to Atlanta.  Although I must have stopped at nine or ten Waffle Houses the waitresses were all the same.  I would hear their side conversations about BRIDGE cards, dead beat dads, and trying to find means for an education.  How is a waitress earning as little as $4.86 an hour between wage and tips supposed to support herself (PayScale, 2011)?  I am not sure how a waitress could live off of $4.86 an hour.  However, I do know that the next time I go to a Waffle House I will be sure to tip more than 20% of my $6 meal.Additionally, while working at Wal-Mart Ehrenreich's main duty was picking up clothing in the ladies' department.  She often encountered misplaced items from other areas of the store.  I began to think about the many times I am shopping and change my mind about an item and merely leave it in a department other than its respective department.  For instance, I was at Target with a cognitively impaired girl that I babysit.  We started out in the accessories departing looking at belts.  I picked out a belt and we moved on to shoes. Shortly after picking up the belt I decided I did not want to purchase it; I simply hung the belt on the filp-flop holder.  Carly quickly reminded me that the belt did not belong in the shoe department and that we should take it back to the belt section, so we did.  After reading about the misplaced goods Ehrenreich was forced to pick up, it hit me; Carly worked at Target though school and it was her job to replace such misplaced items.  I realized I am guilty of creating strenuous and repetitive work for such underpaid workers as Ehrenreich (during her time at Wal-Mart).Overall, I would recommend reading Nickel and Dimed.  Ehrenreich opened my eyes to the problems that are unseen to the middle class.  The book was an easy read and very interesting.  Ehrenreich kept my attention throughout the book through her depictions of her accounts as a low wage worker. Not only do I recommend reading Nickel and Dimed, I recommend rereading it.
3	1301270400	I would recommend this book to anyone interested in finding out how low-wage workers truly live. Ehrenreich risked her life in finding out how working class individuals live day to day, most without safe living conditions or healthy diets. She gives detailed explanations of her jobs in Key West, Portland, and Minneapolis; describing the process of hiring that is considerably different from middle or upper class occupations. The scientific rules that she set in the beginning were not obeyed, in fact she broke every single one. In becoming a low-wage worker she has expanded the view on how these workers are treated and shows how society needs to become more aware and accepting of these people.
5	1299801600	I had to read this book for an english class and I am so glad I did. This is a great book very interesting and easy to relate to for everyone. I wouls suggest everyone read it, I couldn't put it down.I bought it for a dollar on Amazon and even though all the pages were scribbled on, it was the best dollar I have ever spent.
5	1299715200	I thought this was a fantastic quick read. I gave it as a gift after reading. Opened my eyes to living situations of America. Motivated me to become better.
2	1299456000	Nickel & Dimed is an interesting attempt to uncover some of the major problems faced by America's working class. Barbara Ehrenreich wants to illustrate just how desperate and unfair the situation is, how much needs to be done to fix the economic woes of the poor, and how deserving they are of help. Unfortunately, Ehrenreich seems to miss the point of her own experiment. First she seems utterly unwilling to fully commit to the lifestyle, maintaining the distinct advantages of transportation and communication. Second, Ehrenreich seems to have failed what seems to be the central humanistic feature of her own book: to change perspectives from sympathetic to empathetic. Despite her immersion in another social stratus for months, Ehrenreich seems to be unable to make the shift from thinking about the people she now lives, eats & works with as different from herself.Ehrenreich starts the book with the assumption that she will be the hardest working and have the best work ethic (questionable from the beginning), worried even that she will be noticeably overqualified for the job. While it became immediately apparent that she was mediocre at best, her attitude didn't change noticeably. She maintained the outlook that her education and wealth made her somehow above her waitressing/maid/Wal Mart employee counterparts.She even goes so far as to put in the book a large section devoted to mocking the religious practices of those people she is surrounded by; she describes a tent revival as "the perfect entertainment for an atheist out on her own".  She describes people in the most condescending of ways, "tragic-looking hillbilly type", while simultaneously making broad sweeping statements about equality, "It is a tragic cycle condemning us to even deeper inequality" (notice especially the two uses of the word tragic). This kind of hypocrisy, the critique of individuals based on stereotypes in contrast with the far reaching idealistic ideas of equality and the value of humanity, is seen throughout the book and distracted very seriously from the value of the work in my opinion. It was very difficult for me to see past this when looking at the work as a whole. It seemed as I read through the pages that every word was dripping with unrealized insincerity, superiority and a lack of genuine compassion.In conclusion, the book seemed decidedly half baked. While I respect Ehrenreich's idea, I'm afraid that this book was little more than an interesting scrape at the surface of a complicated set of issues that did not unearth anything particularly meaningful. By not committing completely to her role and class, Ehrenreich loses nearly all credibility and becomes merely an entertaining light read with a provocative premise.
5	1298332800	The book arrived in wonderful condition and was fast and looked great better then expected...I liked the pricing and from what I got into looked like a good read.
5	1297123200	It's a well written, sometimes funny, sometimes sad book, it triggers emotional response and a thought or two. Also, it's a very good, captivating listening. A rare well written & well researched book, even the one you 90% agree with :), is a good audio book at the same time. With this book it was like a time warp machine, you lose a sense of time&space; just to get out for your rest breaks. Yes, author's sociological "experiment" setup leaves much space for petty attacks and nitpicking, but it's not a book about optimal methodology of "live in" social commentaries, theory & practice of minimum wage survival, grand strategies of rag to riches meteoric rises. It's a book about the people at the bottom with no "upwardly mobile" way out, also (albeit more impersonally) it's a book about the people & society benefiting from "no way outs". Yes, the book mildly questions foundation myths (that's why there are so many undeserved 1 star comments), nothing world shattering though, so I would not recommend it for the regular talk radio listeners incapable of tolerating slightest deviation from the course. If you believe that everybody in a pyramidal hierarchical society can move a ladder up through hard work, yada, yada, arithmetic impossibility be damned, or you believe that there are pyramids without bottom, or you believe that there are pyramids with top as wide (or wider) than bottoms, etc., or you believe that people at the bottom deserve every penny they get, this is not a book for you.This book resonated well with my increasing perception of the US economy/society as a sewer pit having a few narrow ladders up and filled with desperate people working knee deep in the mud while a "carrot of opportunity" is generously dangled over their heads to keep them working. Occasionally, one breaks over to the top and is being shown to the aspirants at the bottom - "you see, it could be you if you played your cards right, so keep working, everybody can make it, just look at him". Instead of questioning the forces that are turning USA into banana sewer pit, everybody is preoccupied with securing his/her access to a few remaining ladders up. Many if not most (even poorest of the poor) would find climbing a ladder up (by all means necessary) and looking down at those remaining below to be more appealing and inspiring than destroying their sewer pit. This is another point author is trying to make.
4	1296950400	Ehrenreich eloquently and humorously communicates how working class Americans struggle to live. This book is insightfully written, but at the same time remains concientous that its author's roots are entrenched in a diffrent socioeconomic class.
5	1296777600	This is a very well written story looking at the underpinnings of our society. You follow the author as she works in several minimum wage jobs, trying to make ends meet. For people who have never lived this way, or worked these jobs, it could be quite eye opening.
1	1296518400	I read this for bookclub.What a disappointment and waste of time.This book is nothing more than the author expressing her bias, prejudice and progressive views. She is not grounded in reality. Sickening.
4	1296345600	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting by in America by Barbara Ehrenreich was published long before the tv show 30 Days was created and I think it is one of the best books that showcases the reality faced by so many called the "working poor."To put that into perspective, for those of you who were not aware, the Federal Minimum Wage for this time period was $5.15/hour. That is the absolute minimum that you were supposed to pay people and there were/are so many employers who will only pay that amount. At $5.15/hour, if you work 40 hours a week, you might bring home $150/week after taxes. That's barely $600/month!This book is considered one of the pioneers of the movement to raise the minimum wage & to really take a look at how our local and federal government work to protect their citizens. There were so many people who Barbara met during her journey who gave her as much as they had themselves. It gave a new face to the working poor by showing that not everyone is content to sit on their duff accepting government help. Most of these people are hard-working, upstanding citizens who just can't seem to make ends meet well.I suggest this book to anyone taking an economics or social studies class. It was written in a very accessible and funny manor so that everyone can enjoy it and take away the necessary lessons. I picked this book up in my high school library, but it wasn't until it was assigned reading as a freshman in college, that I took the time to really read it in detail. It might help put the current economic climate into a little more perspective if you can look at where we came from and what has changed between then and now. I leave you with the words of famous author Mark Twain, "I have never let my schooling interfere with my education." Neither should you. :)
1	1294704000	Please do not waste your time reading this.  This is the worst book I have ever read.  She is a racist and makes class based remarks that are not warranted.  If she or the publisher had proofread the book and taken these unnecessary remarks out, the book might have had value.  The way it is written now, is horrible and should be pulled off the shelves.  I only started noting quotes about half way through although they litter the entire book."...not to mention my worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the crap jobs and substandard housing for themselves, as they so often do."  p. 121"Irene had problems, yes.  She was both black and Indian, a migrant farmworker, and had been raped by someone and also abused by her boyfriend, who left an ugly scar on her face." p. 133"I slide $255 in cash under the glass window that seperates me from the yound East Indian owner-East Indians seem to have a lock on the midwestern motel business-and am taken by his wife to a room..." p.151"The town of Clearview presents only two low-priced options to its kitchnless residents-A Chinese all-you-can-eat buffet Kentucky Fried Chicken-each with its own entertainment possibilities.  If I eat out at the buffet I can watch the large Mexican families or the even larger, in total body mass terms, families of Minnesota Anglos."  p. 159"One night I come back bone-tired from my last break and am distressed to find a new person, An Asian American or possibly Hispanic woman who can't be more than four and a half feet tall,..."  p. 167Really? Were any of these distinguishing remarks actually needed to tell the story?  NO, not at all.  She just writes naturally that way because she doesn't like anyone but the white race.Please DO NOT buy this book!
5	1294704000	In the last section of Ehrenreich's book entitled Evaluation, she discusses several economists' reactions to questions regarding the value of minimum wage jobs. If the late 1990s were some of the most rapid periods of economic prosperity that this country has seen in decades, why was the "bottom ten per cent" being paid less than their predecessors? She was told that wages were indeed rising: that same ten percent saw their wages rise an entire fifty cents in the past three years.Granted most of the workers in her book worked well over the standard forty hours a week, but for the sake of simplicity, it seems safe to say that this paltry wage increase on average amounted to twenty extra dollars a week. In a world where fast food, a few extra gallons of gas and a new pair of cheap shoes can make all the difference, it seems as if this extra twenty could ease the financial situation of someone stuck in slave-like conditions, living paycheck to paycheck. However, juxtapose a wage of seven dollars with the Economic Policy Institute's recommendation of fourteen dollars an hour as a living wage, and those twenty dollars still don't seem like enough. There are millions of people in this country making half a living, often with more than one life to support.Half of this book involves writing about the physical act of work. Balancing miniscule paychecks, recovery and finding something to do with the other eleven to fourteen hours of the day are all secondary. This work does not end at manual labor; it entails organizational and rudimentary but none-the-less cutthroat economics skills on and off the job. Being a "Team Member" at Wal-Mart, cleaning other people's houses and waiting on tables are the official job description but when the shift is over, it is time to feed children, pay rent and figure out how to see a doctor with a minimum wage. It reveals unaccountable inequality. The cleaning and selling and serving all happen in the wealthiest nation on earth, where over 50% of the population is overweight, automobiles outnumber human beings and people at the opposite end of the economic scale make more in a week than their servants do all year. This is the world in which the politicians, the public and middle-class bosses like "Ted" from the Merry Maids tell the desperately poor they must "work through it" to succeed in life. Economically, this is the same world in which Andrew Carnegie soothed the guilty rich and pacified the bitter poor by reasoning "...much better this great irregularity than universal squalor..." While this statement sounds like the words of someone who has done a great deal of thinking on the matter, it also sounds like someone who hasn't taken the time to do the elementary mathematics involved before making such a bold justification.In the world Ehrenreich researches, women, people of color and immigrants make up the bulk of the workforce. White men make up the management. For many of a muddled, less tolerant viewpoint this presents clear evidence in favor of social Darwinism but through her writing it appears that exploitation and racism are more satisfactory underlying explanations. When the author admits several times that her investigation is not the most objective approach she could have taken, she lists the reasons why: There is the startup money, the credit card for emergencies, the internet access working to her advantage and then the unlikely event of not knowing anyone in the new towns working against her. Having a partner to share the financial burden and/or the World Wide Web, the thesis of modern communication, at one's fingertips seems like an obvious plus to her and absolutely necessary if children are involved. She then reveals that some of the people her coworkers couple with are abusive husbands or boyfriends, something she suspects has happened to her co-worker Holly. They too have had credit cards to bail them out in bad situations (and now carry thousands of dollars in debt as a result). Last but not least, wide access to the employment world does very little when family, transportation and savings limit you to a single city or neighborhood.As she goes through interviews, she is initially signaled more than once that being a waitress is more suiting to her skin color and accent. Along the way, she encounters Haitian cooks, Czech dishwashers, African-American and Latina maids and of course, native-born white men calling the shots in not one but six different jobs throughout the country. By the look of Forbes or Fortune magazine, it is hard to believe that this kind racial diversity exists at the top of the business world.The traditional ideas of what makes a living, such as Carnegie, Conwell and Sumner's theses of hard work and ambition appear in the daily lives of Ehrenreich's co-workers, a case in point being Holly again who appears dismayed that she is sent home sick (or pregnant?). Everyone takes pride in their work and wants to do an even better job than the management and the corporate regulation-by-stencil owners want. If the hard work and ambition are there in abundance, what is going wrong? Modern examples of what makes a person wealthy or impoverished always (and rightfully so) include "having a good education". The employers even preempted the advent of someone "getting any ideas" by not allowing wage conversations, showing videos against unions, even not allowing talking (at the Wal-Mart). Formal education aside, at the very least the knowledge of all the things many of these people badly needed was amiss, everything from unions to the simplest of wage laws to sexual harassment were simply unheard of or even worse, they were systematically put down.Ehrenreich sought to find out if these low wage workers are the shiftless, incompetent, drug-addicted, welfare queen stereotypes that reside in the back of millions of minds when the topic of conversation turns to welfare and the working poor. Obviously they are not, given a healthy, ambitious, professional woman attempted their way of living and failed as well.While the rest of the industrialized nations in this world at least attempt to ensure their citizens most of the objectives in FDR's Economic Bill of Rights, especially the right to make a livable wage, the US has done nothing but withdraw these rights for the past half-century. In replacement, 500 million people are subject to the mercy of the market. Yet as Ehrenreich points out, the fundamental vehicle of the economy for millions, the wage stagnates no matter what heights of prosperity "we" collectively reach.
4	1293753600	This left leaning book was a great read.  I wish she could have finished the project the book left me wanting more.  It really made me think about the opportunities I have an realize not everyone has them.  In some cases it may be due to choices people make but in some cases we are just born fortunate.
5	1293148800	The entire time I spent reading the book I was both amazed and hooked.The writing is funny as well as informative and critical.Undoubtedly this is s book everyone needs to read,as it highlights the real working and living conditions of the low income workers.
1	1292198400	A look from the bottom?????I worked my way up from bagging groceries, washing floors and washing bottles.  I worked in big box, and fast food and I escaped.  I worked real hard, got educated and eventually got a good job.  Each job helped me get the next job.  That is the american story.I think the authour too an unrealistic approach to this, and this make the book useless.  She is not doing the things she needs to do to escape.But what can you expect from a book that refers to Jesus Christ as a "wine-guzzling vagrant and precocious socialist."  The authour is really uneducated if she belives this.  Maybe her failures in life have more to do withe her attitude about the creator of the universe than our country.He attitude and lack of morals can when she identifies with the thief and becomes defensive of him.  even though he was caught red-handed stealing from the storehouse.  Honesty and integrity go a long way and those that lack them can be stuck at the bottom.
1	1291766400	The premise was interesting but then she destroys all credibility by her ground rules.  She can't use public transportation?  She can't accept a meal from a friend or family?  She can't have a roommate? These things are essential to living on a budget. I'm amazed she was able to do as well as she did with those rules.  Then she won't accept any jobs that would pay more for some experience!  So that means she won't allow for promotion or advancement to improve her pay...I guess she assumes that someone making minimum wage will never get a raise.  She doesn't have any possessions (except her car of course...yeah right) so she has to rent (with no roommate) a furnished apartment!  Then she goes to a strange town that she knows nothing about and no one she can ask and says she has to find reasonable accommodations within 30 days.  That is just not realistic.  She creates most of the problems she encounters with her unrealistic rules so that she can get the result she wants...a propaganda piece.  Don't fall for it and don't bother reading it.
1	1291680000	What America needs is everyone to stop believing that they are OWED anything from the government.  That my friend is socialism...move to Europe.  It is a shame that people can collect a welfare check that is MORE money then they would earn working at Walmart.  This book would have you believe there are no services for poor people.  Grow up and be responsible.
1	1291680000	This book is a waste of everyones time.  Especially of the students forced to read it in public school.
1	1291593600	Basically this book is based on so many ill-conceived notions its scary. The authors approach is one of people making it rich by taking a minimum wage job but is then amazed how people that take the jobs don't do well. It ignores the idea that these are typically meant to be entry level jobs where people learn and advance through experience. It also talks how she went to a church. Wow, what a description. I'll bet Christian everywhere are wondering just what she based her "commentary" on since its certainly not from anything they read. She describes Jesus as a socialist etc and one wonders just what Jesus she's referring to. This book is so far from reality, that frankly one wonders how people make it to the end. It was painful to stick it out to the end.  I could go into detail but this was so painful to read I don't want to have to re-live it.  Avoid it, whatever you do DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY ON IT!
5	1290816000	This book came to me in near perfect condition. I was pleased with the quality of the book--both inside and out. The shipping time was reasonable and I am glad that I read it.
3	1288483200	It took about 3-4 weeks for this book to come in. It was a long long time, but it was in great condition!
1	1288396800	- In one of the chapters, Barbara goes on a hunt to detox herself because she has a drug test coming up. She is offended by it.- She compares wearing a maid's outfit, to being black p.100- She blames the Mexicans for taking all the shelters and jobs p.121- She decides to take a "day off" to go to the movies and eat normal food with her old friends, when she is supposed to be doing this social experiment p. 48- She keeps complaining that her first weeks pay is being withheld. LIttle does she know, its takes time for payroll to process and that checks are shipped from corporate, not printed on the spot.Barbara is pretty much an idiot. This is explained by the fact that she smokes pot, which she tries to cover up by buying detox products at GNC.  I have a sheet of paper where I logged all of the ridiculous things she said. If anyone who reads this book and knows how minimum wage jobs work, you will be pretty disturbed at her stupidity. She claims employers don't tell you their wage. She is right, thy don't upfront, but at the end of interview, after one gets hired, comes the chance of asking questions. This is where you can find out you pay Barbara.
1	1288137600	Though Ms. Ehrenreich continuously mentions throughout the book that she holds a PhD, evidence of that fact in her intelligence and logic are surprisingly absent.  She essentially goes on a half-hearted journey to work in the unskilled job market, ensuring she has plenty of extra money and advantages that others wouldn't have.  It's easy to tell by her writing that Ms. Ehrenreich thinks quite highly of herself and her status in society - that without her the poor wouldn't be able to get out of their situation, though they have been surviving for years without her.  She is self-righteous in her claims, even going so far as mocking Christians by attending a service, sitting smugly for only about half of it, and somehow asserting that the service proves her point.  Overall, this book offers nothing more than an unsubstantiated liberal agenda with absolutely no academic fortitude.
4	1285891200	This book will reveal just how difficult it is to live under the poverty level in this country.
4	1285459200	good book. I would suggest it to anyone to read. It is an eye opener for some, a reminder to others, and a way of life for the working poor.
4	1284595200	I got the book in three days...I was really surprised to see that it was still in good condition even though it's paperback.
1	1284249600	If it hadn't been required summer reading, there is no way anyone in my household would have read this dreary book. Good heavens - is there no other nonfiction book we can inflict upon our children?
3	1282435200	I picked up this book at my local bookstore awhile back, mostly because it just looked interesting. Seeing as I am so  completely far from being rich and work a retail job, I thought this would be an interesting read. Having just finished reading the book, I found much of it to be quite intriguing. Not revelatory by any stretch of the imagination, but there were many points raised over the course of the book that I'm glad were addressed. These mainly have to do with terminally low wages, and the problems of getting by day to day. That said, I do have some criticism for this book, which mostly has to do with the way the author chose to write it. We are reminded several times throughout the book that the author is upper class and has a Ph. D. One mention of this would be plenty, but it is repeated continually. Also, the parts where she tries to be "witty" come of as somewhat snobbish. One such instance is when she makes little cracks at the book collection of the owner's house the maid service she is working for is cleaning. How does she know that the owner doesn't enjoy the book laid out on the coffee table that was written in the 1920's? They very well could. Another thing that is rather hard to ignore is that fact that sometimes the author didn't budget herself very well. Personally, I would not drop more than $20.00 on workpants that will get ruined due to wear and tear no matter what. Also, she was somehow able to procure (or already had it before she started this little adventure) marijuana to smoke a few days before her employment drug test. Then she complains about how unfair those drug tests are. Seriously? I also found it a little annoying when she tried to envision herself as some "savior" or something. She seemed to think a little too highly of herself. The whole book has this "I'm better than this, I'm better than everybody" viewpoint. Uh-huh. Well newsflash, you're not. Get over it.  Now, I did ultimately enjoy the book for the most part, but it is hard to recommend it. The author's pretentious tone make it hard to read it times. The information and findings are overall good, but like I said, not exactly revelatory. I do recommend this book, but perhaps sampling a chapter first before purchasing would be a good idea.
3	1282176000	This book is worth reading - and it gives you a look into a world that is pretty foreign for most of us.  The problem that I have is that the author included pages and pages of pro-union editorializing.  I was especially amused by her description of her friend in New York - not as a friend from New York, but as a young African-American feminist from New York.  It is as if she is saying - "I'm friends with a young African American feminist - look how progressive I am - please be impressed with my progressiveness!"  News Flash - it is 2010 and lots of people are friends with, and even marry people of other races and everyone who has set foot near a university knows a few feminists, right-wingers, left wingers etc!  Just about everyone also has an opinion about unions and minimum wages.  I don't care any more about her opinion on these subjects than she is likely to care about mine.  She should have just stuck to writing about her experience and kept politics out of it.  She seems not to grasp that people who are paid higher wages get those wages for two reasons: First because the job they are doing adds large amounts of value, and second because the job they are doing could not be done by anyone off the street with a weeks training.  I could work very hard all day lining up pebbles - but just working hard at something does not justify high levels of compensation.  Lining up pebbles adds no value and just about anyone could do it - that is why no matter how hard I work at lining up pebbles no one will pay me for it.  Low wage jobs add debatable amounts of value but almost anyone can do them - that is why the compensation is very low.  Labor unions in the US are great - for China and India - where most of our manufacturing jobs end up because union workers demand wages that are totally out of line with the value they add and how easily the skills they bring to the table can be replaced.  Sorry - I didn't make the laws of Economics - I just live here.
2	1280966400	My son had to read this book for his summer reading requirement for an AP high school course.  I decided to read it along with him so that we could discuss it if he had any questions.  At first I thought it was a great idea for a book and I found the author witty, intelligent and humorous in the first chapter and 1/2.Her first job as a waitress and the way that she was treated wasn't exactly eye-opening revelations, but it did give a great first hand account of how many people treat lower pay service jobs.In the second chapter, when she took a job as a maid, that's when I started to get a bit mad with the author.  I guarantee that there are some wealthy people in this world who treat service people with disrespect, but her accounts were too one sided.  She had not one story of a home owner who had compassion, offered water or tipped.  I worked as a carpet cleaner for 4 summers and there were far more good people that I worked for than bad.It is during this chapter too that her attitude changes.  She makes fun of people who collect books (now that one really pissed me off) because she believes these are just show pieces of the owner's vanity.The last thing that made me not like the book is that I think it was FAKE.  She did too many things to BE THE NEWS, instead of report the news.  The first example is when she went to "work" in Minnesota.  She knew that she was going to be going undercover, but coincidentally she happened to smoke pot the week before.  This allows her to go into the unfairness of drug tests and how they are an invasion of privacy, etc.The final straw was when she worked for WalMart.  Again, a reporter should be unbiased and report the news, not create it (the union thing).In the course of 250 pages, the author was able to offend the lower class, the middle class and the upper class, sometimes breaking it down specifically at one point, Mexicans and "Minnesota Anglos."
4	1280880000	This book really opened my eyes to the discouraging reality of the lives that so many of our service workers live. Even finding time to read for pleasure is a luxury that I now realize so few low-wage workers enjoy.I realize now what a lousy tipper I've been, and I've resolved to do much, much better.
3	1280448000	In the grand tradition of Nellie Bly and other crusading journalists who went undercover to expose the poor conditions under which "the other half" lived, leftist elitist Barbara Ehrenreich put down her latte and dropped her G's in order to see first-hand what the simple folk actually do. And here is her amazing discovery: it sucks to be poor. Just as Marie Antoinette had a completely inaccurate conception of peasant life, it comes as a revelation to our parasitic ruling class, who live like kings by manipulating words and spouting glib platitudes to the captive masses, that it's no fun trying to live on minimum wage, or work retail, waitress, or clean toilets. Normal people need no such lesson.  This book is mere voyeuristic slumming, like those Victorians who would go on tours through the East End for the shock value of poverty. I see no other purpose here. The author offers no real solutions to a situation that is inherent in a society where people are commensurately rewarded for their marketable skills. Knowing her political affiliations, I would assume that she would put forward socialism as the panacea, but she presents no explanation about how such a system would better the lot of the working class.As an aside, I find Ehrenreich to one of the most irritating women I've ever come across. She keeps flaunting her working class credentials, by pointing out her father's origins in the copper mines, without mentioning that he went on to become an executive for the Gilette corporation, thereby keeping baby Barbara from ever knowing hardship. I am also dubious about her supposed sympathy. Her sense of superiority is palpable, as she mocks her subjects' foodways, spirituality, leisure activities, and manner of speaking. For all intents and purposes, the working people Ehrenreich duped serve as nothing more than zoo animals here, put on exhibition for the entertainment of Ehrenreich's peers.I also find her writing style synthetic and phony, without any charm or individuality, typical of college-educated feminists in the social sciences. Take this sentence for example:  "...I have to take care of their cockatiel, a caged bird that, for ornithological fitness and sanity, has to be let out of the cage for a few hours a day." Her gratuitous use of the word "ornithological" is a glaring instance of bad writing. Ehrenreich, wanting to appear intellectual, or in a misguided attempt to "spice up" her writing, simply took a large synonym for "bird" and shoehorned it into the sentence. So, in short, I found this book neither informative nor well-written. Skip it.
5	1280102400	Barbara Ehrenreich, a journalist and author living an upper middle class life, set out to experience the world from the perspective of a low wager worker. She picked several cities across the country and spent one month in each, living only on the wages she earned. What she experienced and learned is profound and should be a wakeup call to everyone who believes that all a person needs to do is work hard to succeed in life.I read a lot about poverty and the economic struggles of people here in the U.S., so the information (as far as statistics and such) in this book wasn't anything new to me. However, Ehrenreich's voice as an educated woman struggling to make it as a waitress gave the information a new and unique spin. Ehrenreich deserves a ton of credit for taking on this challenge so that she could offer us a personal story, rather than just cold facts.
2	1279152000	My book club selected this, I doubt I would have selected it on my own.  At first, I found the author's sarcasm entertaining.  Eventually it just got on my nerves.  Did she have to keep reminding us that she was a writer with an advanced degree?  I enjoyed some portions of this book but I cannot give it more than a 2 star rating.
1	1278460800	Don't let the "bestseller" status and paeans of praise on the front (and back (and inside front)) cover deceive you ... this book is laughably bad.  And I mean BAD.  My wife and I spent a four-hour car ride reading passages to each other out of sheer entertainment.  Imagine my surprise to learn that, as a public schoolteacher, I have been invited to a "party" the likes of which America's waitresses and sanitary workers could never hope to attend (p. 117).  And that's just one silly sentence out of a whole book of similar faux pas.  Ms. Ehrenreich comes across as a bona fide snob, every bit as obnoxious as she (fairly or unfairly) imagines the owners of the homes she cleans to be--all that distinguishes Ehrenreich is her indomitable self-righteousness.  What's most irritating is that she's taken what was a terrific concept--live as a blue collar wage-earner and report on how tough it is to get by in America--and turned it into a monstrous ego trip.  She takes jobs (for no longer than a month), waxes "philosophical" about the misery of her fellow employees (none of whom, incidentally, would likely describe themselves in such a way), then cuts and runs when things get rough.  None of the "miseries" she lists are all that bad, so she piles on pathos-laden adjectives to amp up the drama.  Most inexcusably, she rarely gives voice to the people about whom she is allegedly so concerned.  Make no mistake--this book is not really about America's working class; it's about Ehrenreich, and she does a fine job revealing her own incompetence on every page.  If Ehrenrich is the new spokesperson of the American underclass, then God help the American underclass.  (Speaking of God, did I mention the irrelevant pages she devotes to explaining her own atheism? Oh yes, she attends a Sunday service out of boredom, then goes on to rip God and his followers a new one.)I could go on and on.  Please don't be taken in by the hype.  I rarely give one star ratings, but this tripe is deserving of no more.  Somewhere out there is a writer/reporter capable of handling this story--someone with integrity, insight, and compassion.  It shouldn't be tough for that writer to send this book where it belongs:  to the remainder rack.
5	1278460800	Well my item took a while to be delivered, but it was a reasonable amount of time. The book is in great condition.
5	1278374400	Excellent book showing how people who earn the least get ripped off and left vulnerable in the world's richest country.I am now a really big tipper like most people who read the book!
5	1278288000	This book everyone must read especially those in middle class and above.  It if it has been years, perhaps since high school, that you had to work a min. wage job, you need to read this and remind yourself.  Remind yourself of what it was like to live with min. wage bosses and wages. Reading this should give you empathy for those workers ringing you out or assisting you with your purchase and/or serving you food.It is also important that the American population KNOWS that Americans can not survive on min. wage.  And min. wage workers aren't all high school drop outs or immigrants or ex-addicts...That is a fallacy.  Min. wage workers are high school and college graduates.  As a food server myself, three out of five employees would have a college degree.  Many are often real estate agents not making ends meet.  But food servers have it great compared to retail workers.  Retails works only make min. wage. As Barbara proves, min. wage does not allow for a person to support themselves.  It is sad.  Or as she puts it a "shame" when someone can work 40 hours a week and still not afford RENT and have to live off food stamps.If we want to save our taxes, we have to get min. wage to increase.  Co.s won't suffer with a wage hike b/c they are already making huge profits off their employees!I think Barbara did an excellent job of pointing out how hard and pretty much impossible to survive on min. wage.  She is right, there has to be a change.Read this book.
4	1278288000	I liked the fact that I got my book pretty quick but I was disappointed with the shipping method, a plastic bag. When I received my book it was a little beat up and had some markings on it, I guess the plastic bag accounts for this and I sent an email to the vendor and I did get a reply! So overall this person is reliable, but I did like the shipping method.
5	1278115200	The book was shipped to me in a timely manner and came to me in great condition.
5	1278115200	I enjoyed reading the book, everything the author wrote is true. While in college, I supported myself and my husband by taking under-paid jobs. The reason is very simple, I wanted to be able to focus on my studies and decided to take a job that "requires less responsibility". Well, I am blessed that I finished four years college in two! From changing diapers at an Alzheimer`s home to cleaning after dirty people at an apartment building after move-outs, working full time - officially as a part time employee - at a store as a cashier for $7.00 and later on for $9.00 as a store manager assistant, I did every hard work! I feel like I earned my money! Very few people recognized the importance and energy, effort and the need of being detail oriented in these "low-class" jobs! But hey, these are all important. As a new resident, when I walked in to my current apartment, I was out of my mind; the professional maid service did not clean my place at all! I had to clean on my own - although I paid huge deposit before moving in - believing that I will move in to a nice, clean apartment where everything is just fine. The previous tenant left toothpaste, que-tips and all kinds of stuff in the fire place, the carpet was full of paint remains, stove, built-in microwave and so on, everything was dirty and sticky.... Thanks God for my two years experience as a houskeeper! Now as a university student, I have to read and analyze the book. I am honored to do so. I admire the author`s willingness to "taste" the real world!
1	1278028800	The focus of Barbara Ehrenreich's minimum wage diary rarely deviates from Barbara Ehrenreich. It is difficult to believe one individual can be so impressed with herself, while holding her contemporaries in such disdain. It is hardly eye-opening to learn that it might be difficult to find a job in the midst of a recession when you are a 50yo unemployed pot-smoking liar with no job history, no references, no cash reserves, no relevant skills and no desire to work for more than a month at any particular job?Is it a surprise that you might actually have to work for a year or two before you can afford to live alone in an $1,800/mo apartment, eat out, drink out, own your own car, computer, internet access etc. etc? Anecdotes are no substitute for data. The way Barbara Ehrenreich cherry picks statistics and anecdotes to suit her cause strikes me a something more than disingenuous. In the end, the story is not about the trials of the working class, but of a privileged, cantankerous writer, indignant that her hard-working co-workers are not more indignant. If Ms. Ehrenreich spent as much time working that she did raging against every one of her various employers, she might see that sometimes, just sometimes, hard work is rewarded.
5	1277510400	We are having our students read this over the summer. Overall a good book with a good message.
5	1275782400	If one can say she enjoys a book about other people's difficult lives, then, yes, I enjoyed this book. It brought me up to date on what it's like to be truly poor.I haven't been in that situation since the late 1970s when I had to live on AFDC because I had two little kids and was in business school, training to become a court reporter. It was tough but doable, doable because health care and child care were paid for by the State of Iowa as part of AFDC benefits. My check for about $380 a month was considered 80 percent of need. Rent was about $180 a month, and $150 worth of food stamps cost around eighty to a hundred bucks (which I could never afford). I bought all my clothes and furniture at secondhand stores and made all my food from scratch - no convenience food items at all. I saved enough so that about once a month I took the kids to McDonald's to "eat out." And I had one credit card for a local department store, on which I charged one bottle of perfume once a year. Other than that, I used no credit.It wasn't a bad life. I learned how to live frugally and fairly well. But then I did have the advantage, as I said, of subsidized health and child care. Without that it would have been difficult, if not impossible, to make it.In today's world, I probably wouldn't make it as well as I did then. I feel a real affinity for those who are trying to survive on minimum wage. It would be good if everyone read this book to get at least a basic understanding of what it's like to live at the edge of life. Very tough.Thanks, Barbara Ehrenreich, for an enlightening book.
5	1275609600	This product met the description to the max. Etremely fast shipping! Will buy again from seller!
1	1275177600	First I want to mention I was looking forward to this book, I wanted a different perspective on the minimum wage situation. I didn't pick it up to hate it, I just learned to page by page. Dr. Ehrenreich seems intelligent and witty, which is why this dismal dreck is so surprising. She had her mind made up and then when the facts were against her she forged ahead anyway. She set out to prove that an unskilled worker cannot survive on entry level positions. The problem is that she proved you can, by showing up in three different cities and doing just that.Now she was flawed from the start in her process by padding her starting position with $1300 and a serviceable car at each city.The book is further burdened by her perspective on class, which seems to be people of means are evil for not giving money to the poor. Add that to her white-guilt, she claims to be stealing jobs from minority even though her own footnotes denounce this, and you get a mess of a book.I urge everyone that has an ounce of compassion and intelligence to pick another book to broaden your perspective on the plight of the unskilled worker.
1	1275177600	First I want to mention I was looking forward to this book, I wanted a different perspective on the minimum wage situation. I didn't pick it up to hate it, I just learned to page by page. Dr. Ehrenreich seems intelligent and witty, which is why this dismal dreck is so surprising. She had her mind made up and then when the facts were against her she forged ahead anyway. She set out to prove that an unskilled worker cannot survive on entry level positions. The problem is that she proved you can, by showing up in three different cities and doing just that.Now she was flawed from the start in her process by padding her starting position with $1300 and a serviceable car at each city.The book is further burdened by her perspective on class, which seems to be people of means are evil for not giving money to the poor. Add that to her white-guilt, she claims to be stealing jobs from minority even though her own footnotes denounce this, and you get a mess of a book.I urge everyone that has an ounce of compassion and intelligence to pick another book to broaden your perspective on the plight of the unskilled worker.
3	1274313600	I share the author's politics and her atheism, too...so I don't argue with those things she brought to her writing. But, I'm just a reader and somethings disturbed me about the book; I'm not sure I can put them into words.  Her writing seemed strange to me--all over the place.  Her stays at each job seemed too short--those tellings were the most interesting, but even they lacked something. And all the rest was dry and very, very boring. I don't disagree with her stories about the people she worked with--I've met all those people, too.  I know how hard working and good and even smart many low wage people are...and how hopeless and unrewarding much of the work is. Just... I dunno.  If I were going to tell their story, I think I might have put more into my writing and made the book flow more and not split the book up with page after page of data that seemed to ramble all over the place.  It felt to me like a college student's paper that needed more guidance from the teacher.  Not great. These people need their story told better. We who don't toil at boring, subservient, endless revolving hours/days/weeks/months/years of grossly underpaid and under-appreciated/under-acknowledged work, should learn to better SEE the other side and share in finding real solutions to helping those people we rely upon so much to get fairer benefits/pay/housing, not to mention: some respect.
3	1273708800	This book succeeds as a possible insight into the lives of menial, poverty-level workers taken from the standpoint of an outsider.  I think this thing could be an eye-opener for the type of people that possess the time and interest to read this sort of thing, namely middle- to upper-class nine to fivers, those that want to understand laborers without getting their own hands dirty.  In that way, I think the book has potential.  It might not be wholly accurate, but it does have potential.  It might just make a yuppie reader think twice before being stingy with his tip for that overworked waitress that neglected to offer him a third refill on his coffee.  In that sense, I can see some good from this book.Taken as investigative journalism elucidating the real plight of bottom-rung workers, the book is just plain worthless.  The writer's privelege is never more than a couple sentences away.  Whenever trouble arises, she's able to bail herself out with savings from her real life bank account, something real struggling people cannot do.  While she acknowledges this inaccuracy on her part, the reader is left unfortunately never really getting an inside look into the difficulties of survival at a barely subsistance level.  The reader is always aware that this journalistic exercise is little more than a vacation for the writer, what you might term "slumming it" ( and, also, something not entirely unlike a bit from the introduction where the writer dismisses 70s radicals who, despite their middle-class college degrees, similarly slummed it and tried to help working-class factory workers).  For anyone who has actually labored and toiled, this book isn't likely to add anything to the store of knowledge you already possess.  In fact, it might actually be deemed offensive, possibly exploitative.But then again, I don't think that this is meant as a book written for the workers.
5	1272499200	Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting by in America is the story of one journalist's efforts to determine the sustainability of minimum wage for the average lower-class American.  Her mission is to discover whether it is truly possible to live on minimum wage alone, without any type of welfare assistance. Ehrenreich's writing is fresh and enjoyable to read, her voice bold and unapologetic. Her witty insights are entertaining, her stories of struggling to scrape together enough money to make the rent are sobering. She does her best to represent the average modern-day, middle-aged, lower-class American.Ehrenreich seeks to answer the question of whether it is truly possible to live on minimum wage alone by entering the blue-collar work force and putting herself in the position of a "typical" low-wage worker. There are several key differences between Ehrenreich and the average minimum-wage worker, one primary difference being she has no children to sustain on her pitifully low wages, as many other women in her hypothetical situation do, and another substantial difference is the precautionary buffers Ehrenreich enters each town with.In the first chapter, Ehrenreich details the methods she uses while submerging herself in her experiment, including the safety precautions she sets up for herself. For each city, she starts out with a thousand dollars of buffer money, and provides herself with pre-paid rented transportation. By establishing these buffers, she is cushioning the reality of others in her situation--how many struggling lower-class American workers have a spare thousand dollars for when times get rough or a reliable car?Despite the safety nets, Ehrenreich still struggles substantially. For me it shed quite a bit of light on the difference between minimum wage and a living wage: if Ehrenreich, a single woman with no children to feed and precautionary financial buffers in place, cannot support herself working minimum wage jobs, then how could a single mother of two working a minimum wage job get by without government assistance?The strong point of this book is the personal experience Ehrenreich is able to provide from living the life of a lower-class worker, albeit for a brief time. This makes the book easy to read and allows the reader to sympathize with Ehrenreich's struggles to provide basic things such as food and shelter that many of us take for granted. However, this is also a weak point of the book as well: though Ehrenreich provides supplemental academic data on various political and economic aspects of the cost of living and minimum wage, she relies primarily on her experiences and sometimes comes across as self-righteous, or even condescending in her description of her jobs and coworkers.Ehrenreich provides excellent insight into the struggles of the minimum wage workforce. After reading her book, it is even more apparent to me that the minimum wage is absolutely not the same as a living wage. If not for Ehrenreich's journey, I would not fully be able to understand the difference.
2	1271548800	I could not even finish this book even though it had potential. the author should of approached the subject in a Studs Terkel fashion with interviewing low wage earners instead of posing.Since when is the minimum wage supposed to be a "living wage?" minimum wage jobs are supposed to be stop gap jobs for high school and college students, immigrants. people in transition. i worked 2 low paying jobs nd put myself through trade school and have made over 6  figures a year for well over  decade.Two things I learned about chronic low wage earners . One is that most of them have self esteem issues. Second, they will usually give you the shirt off their backs to help you. The nicest people I have ever met in life were strawberry pickers, farmworkers, maids, waitresses , etc.The name of the game is 'supply and demand' and always will be. It's not the big bad corporations as the author tries to make it seem.This book was a disappointment.
1	1271548800	From the fact that the introduction is written by a notorious socialist and "progressive" activist, you can just guess where the author is coming from.  I suspect she had the book half-written in her head before she even set out on her little journey.I'm not going to go into all the problems with the book by example, but try to provide and overall impression.As has been noted by other reviewers, she was amazingly profligate with her money, and seemed to have no concept of budgeting and saving.  She seems to have gone into this to try and live a middle-class life on minimum wage and was astonished to find it impossible.  Or, more likely, she did everything she could to "prove" it was impossible and thus "prove" her thesis that America sucks and millions of hard-working and intelligent people are trapped like rats in dead-end jobs.  A couple of hints, dear: minimum wage is a starter wage.  It's not really meant to be lived on.  Either you move up through hard work or training, or, what do you know, you get paid like an untrained beginner.  As for raising family on minimum wage...what insanity.  If you can't afford a family--and on minimum wage, you cannot--then, um, don't have one until you CAN afford it.  An astounding concept, I know, but something to think about.  I have noted that almost every person I have met who is "stuck" in a low-paying job is not "future-oriented," as they say.  This is a nearly fatal flaw in terms of getting ahead in life.And guess what, some people are not worth much more than minimum wage.  Some are lazy, incompetent, of low intelligence, or have some other issue that means they'll never make the money a neurosurgeon does.  I fail to see why this situation is such an outrage.  It just seems obvious.As for people who really need help, America has a half-trillion dollars worth of programs to help, "donated" by people who pay taxes.  No low-income earner in America need starve, because we have food stamps.  Or go without shelter because we have low-income housing.  Or go without medical care because we have Medicaid.  And so on.I've been flat broke in America twice, and once in Japan.  All three times I managed to pull it together and get back on my feet and start all over again.  In the end, I managed to make as an entrepreneur.  Of course, it took years of seven day weeks, sometimes 14-hour days, and it was seven years before I took my first vacation.  Heck, it took me three years to buy a car!  So I know what it takes to succeed, and government handouts are not it.  In fact, when I was poor, I never took one, not of any kind.For a vastly more realistic idea of the opportunities America offers for someone starting with nothing, read "Scratch Beginnings: Me, $25, and the Search for the American Dream" by Adam W. Shepard.  His experience rings true, because I've been there and lived it.Basically, Barbara (despite her claims otherwise) wants equality of outcome, not equality of opportunity.  The blunt truth is that people are not equal.  As noted above, some will never be more than minimum wage earners.  They need to learn to accept that and run their lives accordingly.  And some will have the talent and genius to cut a tumor out of someone's brain.  That person will be especially well rewarded, and so they should.I'm sorry if this would make me seem heartless to the people, like Barbara, who seem to be incensed by the fact that people are not equal.  But since I have become a success, the amount of taxes I've paid has probably done more to help those in need than all of her books and speeches and ivory-tower musings put together.
2	1269648000	I read this a good 7 years ago. At the time I was myself working for about $8.00 and hour for Target after losing a good paying technology job in October of 2001 shortly after 9-11.I could have collected unemployment for 6 months at a decent level until a good paying job came along again, which I did for about 1 month, but instead I took the path of least resistance and applied for entry level sales clerk and data entry jobs which I was able to land easily enough in January 2002.Tha experience helping land a good paying sales job two year later. Yes had to work hard at low wages, but it can be done! Yes I have a EE which I worked my butt of to get in the 1980s while working at a grocery store!!Even now, in the so called Great recession,  there are jobs at Target and Wal-Mart that people can get. It is better than the dole!! Yes they are entry level and pay in the $7.00 range but if you are good you can easily move up to department team lead which pays close to $14.00 per hour !! If have a work ethic and don't make your employer the enemy you can succeed. The jobs also empower people.Why are foreigners risking their lives to come to America still!! Why are people from India, Russia, Vietnam coming here and kicking butt even at low level jobs, without trashing the system??...  I remember Barb saying Wal-Mart taste for human flesh (meaning employee turn over)blah blah blah.... I rather have Wal-Mart in my block.
1	1269302400	Waste of time.  I don't really even want to waste my time writing a review on a book that was so boring, poorly written, narrow minded, and biased.
1	1269129600	This slumming sojourn story and its seeker-as-savior subtext mock sundry stiffs: waitresses and cooks and dishwashers and retail schleps and the customers who patronize the establishments. Throughout Nickel and Dimed, author Barbara Ehrenreich substitutes innuendo for insight and caricature for character.The messiah Ehrenreich doles out blessings: "I like Gail" (20); "I especially like Joan" (21); "I even warm up to Billy" (21).Oh the magnanimity - and just in the stretch of two pages."I have driven past the `Deliverance' church downtown, and the name alone exerts a scary attraction. Could there really be a whole congregation of people who have never heard of the James Dickey novel and subsequent movie? Or, worse yet, is this band of Christians thoroughly familiar with that story of homosexual rape in the woods?" (66).When did the crappy flick Deliverance become a cultural cornerstone about which everybody should be aware? Either way, what is the point? Does Mrs. Ehrenreich mean to say that the church needs to change its name because of the movie? Are the congregants just bone dumb because they don't know the movie and the novel? And even if the congregants do or don't know about the movie or the novel, what bearing does that knowledge have on the sanctity of their worship?"Nor is the leading classic rock station turning out to be sufficiently supportive. I can handle seventy-five mile-per-hour tailgaters on Creedence Clearwater Revival or even ZZ Top, but the Eagles and the Doobie Brothers are just no help" (138).Why this distinction - or lack thereof? Is the DB's "Rockin' Down the Highway" too lightweight for Ehrenreich? Or is it a way for Ehrenreich to let the reader know she is a rock-and-roll mama because she digs listening to ZZ Top?"Wal-Mart's unctuous service ethic" (137). "Be nice to the guests" (141). "`[R]espect for the individual, [exceed] customers' expectations, strive for excellence'" (144). "[W]e are all `ladies' here, forbidden, by storewide rule, to raise our voices and cuss" (156).Imagine that: a company that insists on customer service and prohibits employee swearing. The nerve. Makes me misty-eyed for the good ol' days - before monster Wal-Mart got its hands on innocent Main Street - when customers could peruse overpriced products on understocked shelves and be ignored by an insolent third-generation son who didn't want to be there and who made it known."First the dresses must be grouped by color - olive, peach, or lavender, in this case - then by decorative pattern - the leafy design on the bodice, the single flower, or the grouped flowers - and within each pattern by size" (153). "I have to put clothes away - the question is, Where?" (155). "[C]ustomers shop with supermarket-style shopping cars, which they can fill to the brim before proceeding to the fitting room. There the rejected items, which are about 90 percent of try-ons, are folded and put on havers by whoever is staffing the room, then placed in fresh shopping cars for Melissa and me" (156-157). "Now I am picking up not only dropped clothes but all the odd items customers carry off from foreign departments and decide to leave with us in ladies" (164).Omigod stop the presses: Ehrenreich learns about the tedium of retail."Sometimes, if things are slow, Melissa and I will invent a task we can do together - zoning swimsuits, for example, a nightmarish tangle of straps - and giggle, she in her Christian way, me from a more feminist perspective, about the useless little see-through wraps meant to accompany the more revealing among them" (157).What is, pray tell, a Christian giggle? And what does, in God's name, a feminist giggle sound like?"I am the very picture of good-natured helpfulness, fascinated by the multiethnic array or our shoppers - Middle Eastern, Asian, African American, Russian, former Yugoslavian, old-fashioned Minnesota white" (165).Middle Eastern: Syrian? Jordanian? Lebanese? Asian: Chinese? Japanese? Filipino? Thai? Hmong? Vietnamese? Cambodian? Yugoslavian: Serbian? Croatian? Bosnian? Old-fashioned Minnesota white: Norwegian? Swedish? German?And what makes multiethnic shoppers fascinating anyway?Give Ehrenreich credit, however, for equal opportunity. She flirts with ageism (157 and 181), goes after fat - `scuse me, metabolically challenged - people (164 and 165) and has a macabre attraction to the dentally deficient (174 and 183).This could be a first in the annals of reportage: An author who holds her characters in cryptic contempt.There is one opportunity for revelation. Shards of truth appear when Ehrenreich begins a meditation on the vulnerability of single women, alone, at night (152-53).But Barb blows it. The exploration is fleeting, which is fitting for this flaky book. Too soon she is back chillin' with Marlene on a cigarette break, bitchin' `bout the man and talkin' revolution (184).Nickel and dimed indeed: What a gyp.
5	1268956800	Although Ms. Ehrenreich's book was written in 2001, its findings are just as relevant today if not more so. Ms. Ehrenreich conducts an experiment: she goes underground looking for low-paying or minimum wage jobs $6-8/hour and finding ways to afford the basics: rent, food. What she discovers is what even more people face today than then: broken-down, filthy, even dangerous single rooms that rent by the week or month. Some rooms lack even a small refrigerator or microwave. Ehrenreich subsists on canned food and snacks. Sometimes, a dinner splurge includes a burger at Wendy's.Like the affordable housing, the jobs, while varied are largely demeaning, often hazardous, and more often than not require a second job, so that a 7-day work week is common. People living under these conditions are literally downtrodden and few have any realistic hope of upward mobility. Ms. Ehrenreich takes the reader through the trenches with detailed observations and personal insights. Most importantly she does so with compassion for her "fellow workers."Joseph A. DominoAdjunct ProfessorPalm Beach State CollegeBoca Raton, Florida
2	1268438400	While I found her writing to be engaging and her observations of others to be insightful (if somewhat shallow), it's simply impossible for me to enjoy this book fully.  The most important fact here, to me, is that she always has the end to her travails in sight--she's at no job longer than a month or so, so she feels absolutely none of the long-term effects of poverty.  Rather, everything she feels is short-term, and she can only observe her co-workers and try to guess at what it's like to live as they do.  She never has to experience the despair that can crop up due to desperation or lack of hope.  She never has to know what it's like not to be able to take her kids on vacations, or not to take vacations herself.Life is much, much different when you know that you can step out of a situation with simply a decision.  How many of her co-workers could decide one day that they're going to leave their minimum-wage work and go back to significant salaries and rich lifestyles?  I never got the feeling that she was fully invested in what she was doing, for she never really was--she was merely visiting the world of other people and trying to report it, and the focus was far too much on herself and far too little on the people who live in this world with NO light at the end of their tunnels.  I would have much preferred to see an in-depth examination of the lives of others.  Having lived in both worlds myself for extended periods, I believe that she would have found a much more valuable trove of information if she had done so.  Why spend time on your own problems when they're artificial and fleeting?  Tell me more about the people who LIVE these problems. . . .
2	1268438400	Interesting topic and one that should be explored at a more substantive level.  I've had my share of blue-collar, low-to-middle wage jobs, from high school until I finally received my college degree in my early thirties.  The author chose to pay for her own apartment, rather than finding a roommate or renting a room.  I knew plenty of working adults, myself included, who shared a house in order to keep expenses down.  A low-wage job, in my opinion, is an entry level job.  If one is still at that level well into adulthood, then there is an internal issue.  What really bothers me about this book is that the author, in her mid-fifties, is a drug user.  Did she already have drugs from her "real" life, or did she purchase them with her wages while working these low-wage jobs?  Regardless, I suspect that she is a long time drug user and it's not a habit that she suddenly picked up as a result of her having to cope with poverty, albeit short lived.
3	1268179200	Ehrenreich brought to bare a subject of great importance -- America's chronic under-employed. She did not do so with high prose or rich story telling. In fact, you will find yourself mincing her every approach and questioning some of her tinged conclusions. Still, you have to give her credit for throwing herself into the living realities of the clock-punching, shift-changing American minority. For 6 months, she went under cover attempted to live on a salary scratched from minimum wage jobs across the US. Her experiment in trying to live right at the poverty line failed, both for her and for the millions of real under-employed Americans. What tripped her up? short term: availability to cheap, safe housing (something I never considered) and long term: lack of medical coverage. Her short, quick book stays with you, because she manages to make you think long and hard about the invisible but real socioeconomic classes in America. It will make you think twice as you purchase fast food and shop at your favorite retailer. Where do these people go at night? How do they feed their kids?
3	1266537600	Towards the end of the 1990s, Barbara Ehrenreich wondered whether America still offered unskilled workers the ability to survive and even prosper. Following the best traditions of investigative journalism, the author herself gave up her upper-middle class comforts and applied for low-wage jobs in three American locales. The results are disquieting, but all to be expected for many Americans who know that dropping to minimum wage can be an inescapable cycle of poverty.Ehrenreich waited tables in Key West, cleaned houses for a maid service franchise in Maine and sold women's clothing in a Minnesota Wal-Mart. For each place she charts the challenges of the job -- exhausting physical labor, monotonous routines and a management which rarely pays the worker for all the time demanded from him. Ehrenreich's coworkers, who work harder and with more dedication than most of the readership of this book, are still consigned to living in hotels or in their cars for all their efforts. Ehrenreich lists her expenses and her paltry wages, revealing that making it can be impossible with only a single job. In way of conclusion she writes, "So the problem goes beyond my personal failings and miscalculations. Something is wrong, very wrong, when a single person in good health, a person who in addition possesses a working car, can barely support herself by the sweat of her brow. You don't need a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents too high."For most of NICKLED AND DIMED, the author does relatively low analysis of her situation at a wider socioeconomic level, simply referring to various studies in footnotes. These are a bit dry and few readers are going to chase citations. I feel that Ehrenreich's book could have made more of an impact had she explained the systematic deficiencies in the American labour market at the same time that she was dealing with them on a personal level. Still, the final chapter does bring the nationwide statistics.For me the major message of Ehrenreich's book is the need for more unions. I've seen some complaints that NICKLED AND DIMED wants more government interference in the free market, but though Ehrenreich is openly leftist, she rarely calls for the welfare state. Rather, she points out that workers could drive up wages through organizing using only the same old laws that have existed since the 1930s. In the European country in which I currently reside, full-time employment in the same fields that Ehrenreich explored pays nearly twice as much, the result of nearly everyone having access to a union.Ehrenreich's book is no major masterpiece of journalism, but it is an interesting read. For me, it revealed that the old days when a recent high school graduate employed in a basic small town job could through hard work make a solid foundation for himself are long past, and the poverty among my young relatives back in small-town Appalachia (Wal-Mart country) is now commonplace everywhere in the US. The issuing of a reprint in 2008 was welcome, if only to show that the situation hasn't gotten any better.
5	1266019200	I got this book because it was required for a class and when I was finished it was a true eye opener. Although I've worked many low paying jobs but still am quite a bit removed from working for minimum wage and cleaning houses and working jobs that won't give you time of if injured for fear of losing your job. The reality of that is truly scary but the writer delivers this to us readers so vividly and realistic. To live like that is something I am glad to not have to but this should be read by everyone so we can remember how there are many out here who have so little options and fight to survive everyday.
1	1265846400	This book has so much potential! Those of us who have had the opportunity to go to college and graduate school and are now employed in professional positions are often blind to the plight of the working poor. I wanted insights into this world. Instead, I got the ramblings of the self-indulged author who thought we might be more interested in her judgmental perspectives. The author decided to dot each page with musings into HER thoughts and feelings-- as well as her VASTLY superior intellect and sophistication. At times, I wanted to vomit!At one point in the book, the author notes that she thinks one of the women who's home she is cleaning has recognized her from her VERY important real life job...barf!When I chose this book, I wanted to know how it might feel to be locked in this often depressing, dead-end life. I didn't really want to hear how the author felt after she used her ATM card to indulge in a burger and a beer---who cares?DO NOT get this book! It is a real disappointment. I feel ripped-off!
3	1265414400	This book provides a much needed experimentation by journalists to step out of their own class strata. Ehrenreich provides some important examples on how the upper classes should evaluate the effects of their self serving bureaucratic interests, and of the danger that this poses to a society that is becoming more polarized in its class strata. While this book does deliver on Ehrenreich's own experiences as a low wage worker, it is only presented through the potential bias of a person from the upper classes. However, by providing some much needed experience to understand the great benefits she has as a member of the elite classes, the book often reads like an adventure defining the obvious--that low wage work is a cruel and undemocratic form of employment. I often see books of this type that reveal one of America's cleverest propaganda machine for capitalism and labor issues--the conscientious upper class person having sympathy for the working poor. While Ehrenreich does work for low wages in her experiment, she can always return to her job and her former lifestyle. Adam Shepard in his book "Scratch Beginnings: Me, $25, and the Search for the American Dream" also does this to oppose Ehrenreich's view, but they are two upper class journalists that have the privilege and the voice to publish books with only brief "experience" living amongst the working poor. I would bet this book made upper class and upper middle upper class readers feel compassion for the poor, but it would only (in its satirical form) provide a false sense of appeasement in that something was actually be done (by someone else) to prevent further class division. However, Ehrenreich's book can be relevant because it can be also used to startle upper class persons out of continued apathy. If you read history, bad things happen when the middle class disappears. If you wanna keep your upper middle class job, read this book. If the poor rise up against you en masse, you wont be able to keep it.
4	1265328000	Good price in used books, good prompt service.  Interesting and thought provoking topic, quick read
2	1262649600	Sorry Ms. Ehrenreich, but your chronicle of suffering through the experiment of the blue collar lifestyle left me less than sympathetic.  I have lived in the low-rent, high-crime areas.  I have driven the beater bombs.  I have forfeited conveniences like fresh produce, telephone service, and shoes that didn't tear up my feet.  I have lived through pay periods where I had less than five dollars left after all of the bills were paid.  Welcome to earth.  Sorry you didn't like it.
1	1261958400	This pretentious woman should have not bothered. Her story could have been worth reading. I am referring to the basis only. She is so far out of touch and is clueless. DO NOT WASTE A DIME ON THIS BOOK!!!
4	1261008000	There is something to be said for this experiement into the lives of the working poor, mainly that we should all be working our own "research" into how the poor really live. Although somewhat flawed in certain ways, there is something to be learned here, a message for all of us even if the message is to pay more attention to those around you or appreciate everything you've got, even the stuff that may not seem all that great. Books such as this one are designed to raise our social awareness and consciousness and teach us that things really aren't as they appear to be. I would like to see more outrage at the American coporations who partake in greedy and unfair practices. The sections of the book pertaining to housing costs were outrageous and yes, even hard to fathom, but I believe that Ehrenreich was merely reporting the facts at that time. I suspect that things might be even more grim today and if she conducted her research during the present time, we might have gotten far more scary stats. Again, the research itself was underdeveloped however the message was strong as were the questions elicited.
5	1260835200	I finally finished this book. I am not one that usually enjoys books of this nature but since I am going through some rough patches right now I needed to read this book.The author Barbara Ehrenreich decides to see how the low income people survive on the pay that they receive. As I read this book it really made me realize how much the rich seem to get richer and the poor get poorer. I borrowed this book from my son's friend and I am glad I did. It took me awhile to read the book because it is only 3 chapters long and I would stop reading and then not pick the book up in a long time and have to go back just to refresh my memory.In this book Barb travels to different parts of the United States and gives herself a limited amount of money when she first moves to a new place to look for a low wage job. She first decides to find a job in Key West, Florida as a waitress. Her next stop is in Maine in the Portland Area as a maid, and her last stop is in Minnesota in sales.Barb first starts off with looking for a place to live when she first arrives in Florida, Maine and Minnesota. As she is looking for housing she also looks for jobs by looking in the want ads or just seeing signs posted in stores, restaraunts etc. The interesting thing about the book is that the pay wages are so different in each area and also in the types of jobs she accuires. Her first job as a waitress only pays $2.43 an hr. plus tips. So depending on the type of waitress she is and the establishment can make the job a good or bad one. Plus the waitresses have to split the tips with the busboys. It is interesting to see how she handles the job and also the customers. Some of the customers are so rude and expect everything to be ready when they want it.Her next stop is in Maine. Barb hunts again for both a place to live and a job. She finally finds one place to live which isn't the nicest but at least it is a roof over her head. The job she finds is in maid service. Her pay will be $6.65 an hour and if she misses a day her pay will go down to $6.00 for 2 weeks. She has to go through training to learn the correct way to dust, vacuum, and clean. Who would think you need to be trained on how to clean.Her last stop is in Minnesota. She actually starts out with possibly two jobs, one at Menards and the other at Walmart. She doesn't think she can handle working two jobs so she decides to take just one. She decides to take the job at Walmart in sales. All I have to say is that I was very shocked by what I learned about Walmart and some of there practices. Since I have worked in retail before I know the pay isnt't always the greatest but usually the benefits help out.I found Nickel and Dimed very informative and opened my eyes to the problems that our government seem to just push under the rug or try to convince us that we don't know what we are talking about and see with our own eyes.I read this book do to the fact that I may be going through something like this soon. I just wanted to get an idea of what it is like do live in poverty by reading this book. I wouldn't wish this on anyone.
5	1260489600	Barbara Ehrenreich has written a classic account of life in America's underclass, the people who are all around us, whose lives are rarely considered by the ones to whom they serve. The book was written in 2001, and is much more relevant today, as increasing numbers of people join that underclass due to the "free markets" catastrophic failures which culminated in a near global financial meltdown. It required a few trillion dollars of "welfare" to bail out the banks and Wall Street, who apparently have learned nothing. If only a few "crumbs" had been tossed the way of the waitresses and other low-end services workers that are now being laid off.For most of a year Ehrenreich attempted to join the underclass. She took low-paying jobs as a waitress in Key West, Florida, a maid in Maine, and worked as a Wal-Mart "associate" in Minnesota. She also did a stint as a nursing home aide. Her chronicle of those efforts mainly concentrates of the sheer economic impossibility of doing low-pay work, and having even the barest modicum of a decent life (and yes, forget about health insurance, so one is always truly, living "on the edge.") Her job changes over the year limited her ability to develop true relationships with her co-workers, but there are those occasional snippets of insight from their lives, and I thought the portion where the maids really did not clean the houses of the upper class, as they should, particularly noteworthy for the small acts of defiance from America's "lumpenproletariat."Ehrenreich efforts are flawed, as she partially admits in the book. First of all, she never really was part of the "down and out" workers, say, in the sense of Jean Genet or George Orwell or Henry Miller, who were not pretending, and therefore were able to render truer accounts. And, as she readily discovers, being white, and speaking good English was an effective barrier to low-paying job entry in many parts of the country; hence her relocation to Maine to become a maid. Even by her own standards, she could not really stay within the economic parameters she set; but to me that only underscored the lives of quiet desperation that these people live. And most importantly, and a point she down-plays, mentally she always knew she could "pull the ripcord," and bail out, and even if she managed to make it the entire year, there was a definite end point. And her education gave her a broader perspective, and she would never have internalized that her life was part of the natural order of things.Numerous 1-star reviewers went after her, primarily for questioning the "natural order of things" business. Generally these reviewers ranted about "liberalism," sometimes coupled with true accounts of the "lottery winners" who had pulled themselves up by "their own bootstraps." A more serious review denounced her for "tourism" of the underclass, and indeed, in part, it was, for reasons I outlined in the above paragraph. For the flaws in her approach, maybe even she would give herself a 4-star evaluation. However, like so many of her class, she could have confined her tourism to Provence or the game parks of Africa. The fact that she did not, and really "walked the walk" in the low-pay jobs, has given us all a greater understanding, and more importantly, empathy, for those who serve us, and thus she deserves a solid 5-stars.Finally, nickels and dimes are indeed small change. But for those of us who voted for change in the last election, yes, questioning the "natural order of things" that so-called "free markets" provide; it seems that is all we received - nickels and dimes, small change.
2	1260230400	Well, I'd like to thank Mrs. Ehrenreich. She let me know what my life would be like if I walked away from educational choices, had children before I was able to support them, or chose an unhealthy lifestyle(booze and drugs).And gee Barbara, those darned "Christians" that didnt tip but a dollar! Shame on them! (Makes me wonder about the service they recieved at their meal)Anyway, what really bothered me about this book was they way the employers were demonized. How dare they provide low wage jobs so people can at least get their foot in the door and possibly work their way up.Lest I sound cold and unfeeling, I have worked most of these jobs for years before I found an escape to a well paid job. Ehernreich's overly Marxist (she makes several qoutes) and leftist leanings really opened my eyes to the fact that she makes too many excuses for the people in her travels, does not give credit to the employers that took risks to give the working population at least a starting chance.
5	1260144000	Nickel and Dimed, by Barbara Ehrenreich, explores the world of the "unskilled" worker and the ability to survive on low wages in America today.  Though this book was originally written and researched in the late 1990s, given the recent economic downturn, rising unemployment, and rising rates of uninsured and underinsured in our population, Nickel and Dimed is a relevant examination of policies which continue to marginalize the working poor.  Ehrenreich explores the definition of poverty, decreasing expenditures on public housing, wage increases which haven't kept pace with inflation, employer tactics to get the most work for the least pay, and violations of civil liberties by employers through searches, drug-testing, and suppression of free speech.  Nickel and Dimed was well-researched, driven both by relevant statistical data and good old-fashioned investigative journalism to reveal the world of the low-wage employee to those in the middle and upper classes.  Nickel and Dimed truly should be a mandatory read for adolescents in high school to give them a very real picture of what life could be like without completing high school or the development of valuable marketable skills.  Ehrenreich was candid about the challenges she faced in her attempts to attain gainful employment, affordable housing, and the toll low-wage living takes on one's health and self-esteem.  "If you can't put up the two months' rent you need to secure an apartment, you end up paying through the nose for a room by the week.  If you have only a room, with a hot plate at best, you can't save by cooking up huge lentil stews that can be frozen for the week ahead.  You eat fast food or the hot dogs and Styrofoam cups of soup that can be microwaved in a convenience store" (pg. 27).  This book receives five stars and an outstanding rating for its depth and ability to remove middle- and upper-class blinders on the plight of America's working poor.  Nickel and Dimed is an appropriate must-read for adolescents, parents, and those in caring professions to better understand the impact of social policies on those at the bottom of the economic ladder.
3	1259971200	This was an easy read with a fascinating premise: the author goes "undercover" and tries to survive as a low-wage worker for a month in each of three cities.It held my interest, but I was slightly underwhelmed. What she discovered was nothing surprising or new: rents are high and it's not easy to get by on minimum wage. I was expecting a bit more depth; in particular, I would have liked to hear more about the stories of her co-workers and not just her own experience.Plus, I found that the author herself seemed irritating at times. When working at Wal-mart, she tries to point out to the other workers that they're being treated badly and brings up the idea of forming a union, but then goes on to tell the reader, "All right, I'm not a union organizer.... The truth... is that I'm just amusing myself, and in what seems like a pretty harmless way. Someone has to puncture the prevailing fiction that we're a 'family' here...." Um, why? I don't see the point in stirring up discontent if you're not going to help them do something about it. The last statement she makes about her Wal-mart experience is that she thinks she could have done something, if only she "could have afforded to work at Wal-mart a little longer" (the experiment ended when she could no longer support herself through her job there). Maybe that was intended as an inspiration to others, but it just left me wondering why she didn't use some of her own money from her "real" life to stay on for a while longer if she really felt that she could make a difference.Overall, though, this was a worthwhile read. Those who are unfamiliar with the problems facing low-wage earners might get a lot out of this book, but if you already know that plenty of working people are living in poverty through no fault of their own, there's not a lot of new information here.
5	1259280000	Fascinating perspectives on the plight of those that survive living on minimum wages from one person who had the luxury of "trying it out" for a few months.  Below the poverty line, mundane problems become serious challenges, and humanity is short-changed.  While it's always miserable to be poor, in any country, it is the debilitating pressures to optimize profits (for others) that underlie why the United States is a great place to be rich, and a tough one to be poor.
1	1259193600	One thing was typical in the book and that was Barbara's amazement that the Maid Service owner was charging householders $25 an hour per maid while the maids themselves only made $6.50. The owner was therefore obviously an evil user of people. How about the franchise fees, insurance, overhead, facility, vehicles, training costs etc etc etc? Any owner of a franchise realizes that training material, signs, forms, etc. don't come free and that a significant part of profits are returned to headquarters. Frankly this book is a fluff piece .Barbara sort of reminds me of Marie Antoinette who frolics in a house on her estate property pretending to be a peasant. At any time she can return to her palatial lifestyle.Other commenters have mentioned that Barbara never discusses in any depth the reason that her fellow toilers are maids, Walmart employees, or waitresses. Perhaps they dropped out of school and have no marketable skills. No effort has been made in the book to suggest ways in which the "system" could be fixed.Anyone who smokes MJ while interviewing for jobs that require a blood test doesn't exhibit the common sense expected of an educated person. Just another thought.Liberals, Socialists, and supporters of victims will love this book. Barbara should enter politics. She will go far in the environment embraced by 2009 Washington.
3	1259107200	Ehrenreich is a good writer; so much so that I could hardly put the book down and finished it in about a day.  The book is very entertaining and does a good job describing the hardships faced by the working poor and the dilemmas they face almost every day.One thing I found annoying, however, was her obvious disdain for white people.  Her racism rears its ugly head several times throughout the book.  For example, in the chapter "Serving in Florida", she comes down hard on Christians for complaining and not tipping enough.  But, when a "middle-aged black couple who complain..." it is "with some justice".  At the beginning of the chapter "Scrubbing in Maine", she writes, "what appeared to be an extreme case of demographic albinism..."  as if an intact white population represents a disease.  Nevertheless, I could not help but notice that Ehrenreich never availed herself of cheap housing within black neighborhoods (in the "hood").Nowhere in her book does Ehrenreich point out that housing shortages, and high housing costs, are typically the result of government market interventions.  Instead, she seems to blame housing problems on the free market.  I suppose it wasn't one of the goals of this book to suggest viable solutions to the problems it illustrates.  Furthermore, it clearly is not intended as a work of science.  So it would not be justified to attack it with statistics or to be over analytical.  If it was meant to be entertaining, in that it succeeded.
5	1257120000	This book is great. It will open your eyes to the not so fortunate people trying to get by. It is very powerful
4	1256601600	good book, gives u some idea of how people from lower economic standards live and have to make it with the little that they make, really enjoy it
5	1256515200	Informative expose on how what it is like to try to survive on a paltry pay check.
5	1255824000	I rank a book as outstanding if it permenantly changes my behavior.  And this book did.  I read it several years ago and ever since then I have tipped the chamber maids in hotels.  (and I travel a lot so that is lots of tips)I read the reviews and saw many people were down on her for primarily 2 reasons:1 - politics (they thought she was too liberal).  What I say to that is politic often engenders overstatement and polarization.  But life is more shades of grey than black and white.2 - they are outraged that she purports to represent the poor when she is not.  What I say to that is the book is not for the poor.  It is targeted at waking up the better off and it does that.  And if you are truly poor - it helps you.  So support the book and encourage more to read it.
4	1255737600	This book, though skewed by the author's self-imposed restrictions and her financial and health starting points, offers good insight into what it is like to live as a minimum wage worker. This copy in particular has an afterword that elaborates further on some changes that have occurred since the original publish date. Many will find that they can relate to her story and believe this to be a compelling argument to improve the conditions in this nation.
4	1255564800	A good and valuable book that helps us understand and appreciate  America's working class, especially those trying to get by on minimum wage in America. It's not easy, if not impossible.Effectively lived and researched...you may never look a a person in the service industry the same way again. This book alone will make them more human to you, more a part of the same human race you are part of, and that's a good thing. As the author states, "the working poor are the biggest philanthropists to American way of life." Many of the "blessings we enjoy" come about because of the daily sacrifices and sometimes sufferings of the working poor..Unfortuately the author somewhat loses her way toward the end of the book when she becomes more of a union organizer than a person telling a story we all ought to hear and need to hear.The stories she tells stand alone without her call for action.Her shift to union organizer and activist take away from the story she had so effectively told.Still, however, this is a small criticism of a good and great book.
3	1255478400	I have not finished this book yet but if the lady did the study in 1998,  I can't believe that the rent cost so much 10 years ago.  She is talking about living in some small rundown place for $500.00 a month back in 1998.  If you were making minimum wage, how could you rent a place for $500.00 a month.  Most of the hourly rate of pays that she makes are not much different than our minimum wage now.  It just doesn't seem realistic and from what I have read so far it doesn't seem like she had it that bad while she was working these jobs.  It is not as good as I thought it would be.
3	1254441600	Nickel and Dimed takes a peek at life as a low-wage unskilled worker in 3 different lines of work - retail, restaurant, and house cleaning. All of the jobs are back-breaking, tedious, demanding and pay less than a living wage.Although a good portion of the book is devoted to Barbara's misadventures while struggling to find affordable housing, this is a subject area that did not seem to be captured accurately. Barbara was a single woman with a car looking to live alone. She could not consider subsidized housing options or even shared apartments because she was really a "fictional actor" only staying in each geographic location for a few months. Someone in this income bracket would have been more likely to rely on friends, family, or the government for housing help so I think the book should have not delved into housing as much as it did. How about healthcare? I would have liked seeing Barbara's experiences trying to get (unpaid)time off from work to see a doctor while having no health insurance or the cash to cover an appointment or prescription.The topic of  minimum wage workers in America could have also been explored in interview mode - perhaps spending a week or so "shadowing" a minimum wage worker on the job and during their off-hours. This may have provided more interesting and useful information than Barbara's work experiment did.
5	1254441600	A very important book that takes readers into a world they, fortunately, never experience.  For anyone who thinks low-wage work is EASY, they should try what this author did!!
3	1251936000	I picked this up after reading Bait & Switch, which I very much enjoyed. Parts of this book were amusing, as Ehrenreich battled and obsessed over situations that many people live everyday and so take for granted (the trials and tribulations inherent to waitressing, for example). I did appreciate the author's ability to identify and admit her own grandiose psychological attempts to rationalize or derive meaning from base and frustrating positions.In the end, however, the book seemed to lack the depth or scope out one might hope for in such a work. The issue of low-cost housing, for example, received an unnecessarily large amount of time and discussion (though never culminating in effective, insightful or useful suggestions on how it might be resolved) while other issues like the lack of funding or resources for education or job training that might allow the working poor to enter more stable or better paying fields was not addressed at all. Related experiences and subjects that should have had enough impact to nearly be complete books themselves - like the convoluted chain of social welfare and public assistance programs that were so ineffective every time she tried to access them - were mentioned only in passing.Ultimately, this book was worth reading as I did pick up bits and pieces of new information, and anyone who's ever held an enty-level job will relate to her stories and be entertained by her aghast reactions to things most of us take for granted. But if you're really looking for something that will make you think, try Bait & Switch instead.
4	1251849600	Having worked the kinds of jobs that Ehrenreich works in this diary of her experience living on the bottom rung of the socio-economic ladder, I think this book illustrates well (some of) the challenges faced by the poor in America at the turn of the 21st century.Other reviews have stated that the author spent too much time on housing and food. But I don't agree. I do think she could have examined the lack of health care and the impact it has on employment.  To get a fuller understanding of the big picture, I would suggest reading Nickel & Dimed and follow it up with The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-class Mothers and Fathers are Going Broke by Elizabeth Warren. After reading these two books, I had a better understanding of my own experience with poverty.During my 20s I lived in a labor market (North Carolina) where many of the jobs were sent to Mexico (and then to China) and that was flooded with extra workers (immigrants, both legal and illegal plus the laid off workers) which kept wages low . But I had a child to raise and refused to let her live in the kind of crime-ridden, dilapidated neighborhoods my salary could pay for, so I spent much more of my income on housing than I could really afford so that we'd be safe and so she could attend a safe, decent school. I was one of those people who had next to no money for food. There were times when Ramen noodles got us through. Gradually, with medical expenses and the cost of raising a child, I went deeper and deeper in debt. I did eventually manage to get a middle-class job with middle-class wages.  But I am still crippled by the debt I accumulated getting here: student loan debt and credit card debt.One thing that has always perplexed me about supply-side economics which tells people that "if you work hard, you will get ahead and do well" is... that CAN'T be true for everyone. Our society is not set up that way. Somebody HAS to be the waitress. Somebody HAS to be the maid. Somebody HAS to be the retail worker. Our economy depends on these positions being filled, but refuses to pay them a living wage. So it strikes me as extremely disingenuous to claim that everyone who works hard gets ahead. Waitresses work HARD. Working with the public anywhere is HARD. Maids work HARD. CEOs play golf! And if I leave one of those poorly-paid jobs behind for better pay, someone else will have to do it for the same low pay. The people who manage to climb their way up the economic ladder are doing so on the backs of the people at the bottom. Unless we can agree that everyone who works deserves to earn a living wage, then poverty and its effects will always be with us.Supply-side is a lie. The working poor is reality. Nickel and Dimed is reality.
5	1251676800	I live in small town America and the people in this book are all around me.  The book doesn't have all the answers but it is important because it accurately reports life at it has become and why many Americans are barely surviving.
5	1251590400	Great book(used for summer project)Came within delivery date, hardly any damage to it.Nothing wrong with used books, no need to buy one that is perfect.
3	1251590400	I read this entire book in one sitting, because it really is well-written and funny. I laughed out loud when she described a busser sucking "deliriously on an imaginary crack-pipe" when he was making fun of a particularly weasel-like manager.I think it's worth the purchase price, but the premise is not good. I know that the author is making a social commentary, but I know what it's like to make a lot of money, and I also know what it's like to live on $9,000 per year (in California, no less).When I was in my 20s, I was DIRT poor, worked two jobs (sometimes three), and I lived off of $25 of food per week. I even remember exactly what I bought. 4-pound bags of spaghetti, Top Ramen by the truckload (7 cents a pack back then), and giant cans of pasta sauce (about 99 cents for a can, which I saved in a margarine tub and used throughout the week). I had one saucepot, and I bought my work pants at thrift stores. In fact, I bought all my clothes (except for shoes) at used clothing stores. I drank Kool-aid (10 cents a pack) with very little sugar, or, if I was really going to splurge, I bought Crystal Light and made a gallon and a half out of a little tub that was supposed to be for 2 quarts.Let's just say I wasn't very healthy back then. But I made it and put myself through school (without loans). I didn't own a car and I always had roommates. I think the author's issues with housing have more to do with the fact that she was unwilling to live with someone else. When you're poor, that's not realistic.I think that the biggest social commentary (that the author missed) was the way that poor people FEEL. The ones that are stuck in that cycle of poverty always feel hopeless. They never feel like there's something better out there. They don't want to go to school, even though there are Junior College training programs that would be free to them. I think it's more an issue of self-esteem than anything else. If you feel like a worthless person, then that is the reality that you create. It's more damaging than anything else. That's the REAL tragedy here. That these men and women at the bottom feel like they should remain where they are.Even when I was scraping by and living in the dirtiest slum apartment on earth (a broken bedroom window patched by duct-tape and there were dead cockroaches in the bathtub every morning), I never felt like that was where I was going to stay.Conclusion: This book is worth reading, it's very well-written and the author makes some very funny observations. But read between the lines.
1	1251072000	Seriously this book is garbage. This woman is very obviously only playing house she has no idea what it is to be poor or struggling she certainly doesn't have the mindset to survive as an unskilled worker. She always had her real life to fall back on and I'm sure she exaggerated on more than a couple of things. I can get khaki pants at goodwill for less than $7 bucks to start work at Wal-Mart and have them nicely ironed as if they were new not an issue she just spent money where she didn't have. This woman is simply used to the high life and being pampered she has no right to try and act as if she has any idea what it's like. And this was just supporting her self, real women out there have to do this with children.
3	1250985600	Despite its subtitle, Nickel and Dimed does not even begin to scratch the surface of what grinding poverty means. Perhaps Ms. Ehrenreich should spend some time teaching GED classes, or working with families whose major bread winner is in prison or the elderly who must choose between food or medicine.As a Cinderella story in reverse, Nickel and Dimed is a great read, but not quite real.  In order to walk in the shoes of the people she was working with, the author would have had to view her employment the same way they did.  Since she had the resources to simply walk away from jobs, there is an inauthenticity in Ms. Ehrenreich's slumdog adventures. Ehrenreich did some very brave things, but never fully enrolled as a member of the working poor. Unlike colleagues who depended on menial jobs for basic food and shelter, she always knew she had her prior life to fall back on.The most valuable information this book contains are the scarcity of affordable housing available for low income workers and the difficulties of providing a balanced diet and decent clothing. Ms. Ehrenreich did not investigate available options other than one episode spent trying to get agency assistance in finding housing.  Had she actually been in the circumstances she was imitating there are a multitude of other options she would have investigated out of necessity.Nickel and Dimed is a fascinating read, but it's really more about Ms. Ehrenreich than the people she was living and working among, and comes across as slightly patronizing.  Hence the irony of the project:  if the book was intended to educate the affluent on the plight of the working poor, why does Ms. Ehrenreich keep getting in the way?
2	1250553600	If you want to know how the working poor live, you could ask them. But why do that when a rich, white woman, who thinks spouting Marxist gibberish shows sophistication, tells of her attempt to live their lives? And if she cannot do it, you know that they cannot do it because she is so clearly more intelligent than they are.
2	1249689600	Ehrenreich tries to live like the working poor do in the United States - and in some respects, she does so. She lives in cheap motels, works jobs for barely over minimum wage, and understands the headaches and plights of her coworkers. On the other hand, she does it in a halfway manner - starting out with a fund of money, always having access to a car, purchasing items far out of her price range, and so on.From my perspective, the book best illustrates how a wealthy white woman can make it somewhat as a poor white woman, but does not fully engage and understand the plight of people who have to live it. She buys expensive belts, clothes, and justifies spending money on things that most poor just wouldn't do. I realize these habits are almost hardwired into our consumer culture - but the criticisms are right - she did a lot of the sabotaging of herself. However, that doesn't reduce the challenges in aggregating the capital to move into a real apartment, at affordable rates, that most poor just can't muster.Of particular interest to me are the health concerns faced by the poor - from lack of care, to woefully inadequate nutrition (empty calories from convenience stores and overpriced prepared grocery store food), to the rigors of 8-16 hours of manual labor. Barbara, as a fit woman, well fed and exercised throughout the years, struggles after a month - how do people who do it full time for decades manage?
5	1248825600	This book is required summer reading for all students and faculty in my children's private high school.  I came from humble means and totall forgot what it was like.Since reading this book I am less judgmental and more compassionate to those breaking their backs making $8 an hour.
2	1248652800	In Nickel and Dimed, Barbara Ehrenreich undertakes an experiment living at low-paying, unskilled jobs. Hers is a fact-finding mission, an investigative quest to see how unskilled, often minimum-wage labor survives in America. She (temporarily) leaves her advantaged life to dabble in the world of the unskilled poor. After several months of tedium and difficulty, she draws some personal, and some sweepingly general, conclusions. For providing interesting footnotes, I give her two stars.For 235 pages we are treated to a weakly humorous, repetitively boring, indignant diatribe on how unfair it is to be poor in America. What really bugs me about these predictable books (besides the tired attack on Wal-Mart) is the ubiquitous undercurrent of entitlement thinking. How dare those rich dot-commers employ someone at "slave wages" just so that their floors get clean? At one point, she asserts that the "rich" should feel shame at "our dependency . . . on the underpaid labor of others." Who defines "underpaid?" Although she states boldly: "You don't need a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents too high," Ms. Ehrenreich, apparently does need educating in real life economics. She is unaware that it is the government, in setting wage controls and other regulations, which actually destroys jobs and raises the cost of living for everyone. In a free market, Consumer X gets what s/he wants (a clean floor), and the housecleaner gets what s/he wants (payment). They are both better off than before, even if someone may have a subjective value judgment about it.So, apparently, Ehrenreich and others who favor government interference in setting wage controls and income limits, and all manner of other intrusive regulations, need some kind of economic understanding of how detrimental situations arise in the first place. It would probably shock Ehrenreich to realize that statist meddling largely creates the very problems she laments. There is copious information on how government regulation -- as just one example-- has actually created a shortage of housing and higher rents. In the spirit of Ehrenreich's penchant for footnotes, here are just two (out of hundreds) I found, for anyone seriously interested in seeing some scholarly economic thinking on the subject:[...][...]"Affordable" Housing Laws Make Homes More Expensive by Benjamin Powell and Edward StringhamAs housing has become more expensive, a number of local governments have intervened in the market to make housing more affordable. These efforts often take the form of "inclusionary zoning" that involves price controls intended to ensure that a percentage of new development is "affordable" to low-income families. Unfortunately, as any student of introductory economics should know, price ceilings have the undesirable consequences of creating shortages and lowering quality. Price restrictions through inclusionary zoning ordinances are no exception: restricting the supply of new market-priced housing makes housing less affordable.Although Ehrenreich seems to not believe in God (I can't tell for sure), she apparently believes in Santa Claus, because somewhere out there are "others," who should pay an ideal wage. How and by whom this is calculated is NOT expressed in her book; maybe Santa Claus really should do something here. In spite of incurring all the financial and personal risk of opening a business, providing a place for people to work, laying out capital to procure goods for resale with no guarantees of their own success-- these employers (in Ehrenreich's view) simply can't pay enough to every person looking for a job, and make all the pain go away. And by golly, someone should make them. The only person in her book who seems to grasp that she is being paid because of someone else's entrepreneurship is Melissa, whom Ehrenreich rather snorts at. Says Melissa: "I don't like wasting their money . . . I mean they're paying me and I just wasn't accomplishing anything over there." p. 180.Ehrenreich's father worked his way out of the mines to provide better for his family. Poverty line, skilled and unskilled workers do that every day of the week. Much poverty is temporary; private individuals and charities give many poor a helping hand; others are where they are by having made bad choices, or by unfortunate circumstances, which they have not yet overcome. Sometimes we are hit with bad luck. Life is unpredictable, but no one is entitled to another's fortune simply because they themselves have none.Poverty is a painful reality, yet attacks from liberals like Ehrenreich against capitalism and the free market as being the problem are typically superficial: big on emotions and glaringly devoid of serious economic substance. This book tries to serve as some sort of platform for social justice discussion. Hopefully the deeper, economically supported side of the issues will find its way into the discourse as well.
1	1247961600	This book is so full of whining liberalism that it unnerves me to think that it would ever be considered for use in a classroom. The author criticizes everyone but herself. She berates her coworkers, her employers, companies, capitalism, those who have risen above poverty, and nearly everything else. I think she will be very happy in an increasingly socialist USA. She would only be pleased if everyone ( except her) were to be in the same depressed condition she puts the reader.Working in a free clinic I see many people who have been dealt a bad hand with health problems and unforseen tragedies and I have empathy for them. On the other hand, I see those who make terrible life choices yet do not recognize that as the cause of their misery. This author seems to see things in black and white, good and evil. This book and this author give the reader a real case of nausea.
1	1247961600	Shame on those of who think that the book is good or poignant. Ehrenreich's book is neither insightful, nor well written. As with much that is praised by public radio, this book is disappointing.If middle and upper class Americans haven't figured out that a blue collar existence isn't idyllic, then it reveals their blind callousness.On the other hand, this type of book makes the poor seem like some exotic zoo animal or nature study that can be viewed as armchair entertainment. Obviously the working poor know their own condition and don't need it told to them in a book by Ehrenreich.
2	1247702400	I feel generous giving this book two stars, and I only do so because I think the underlying idea behind the book has some merit. Unfortunately, the author's attempt ultimately fails miserably because she brings all of her own baggage and biases into her reporting, which I think ultimately clouds her conclusions and results in a book full of whining and complaints. While there's no doubt that life for the working poor is difficult, I've worked quite a few low wage jobs and known many people who did also. I never saw anything close to the attitude of helplessness that the author pushes in this book.
2	1247616000	Quick background on this, why I read it, and felt the need to write about it.A 14 year old guitar student of mine complained about one of his high school teachers assigning this book to him after the standardized testing was finished. This young man is a bright, dedicated student of mine. He was astute enough to see the hypocritical nature of the author, even after several years of schooling that are more akin to indoctrination these days. I checked the book out and read it over the next 10 days and related to his father that Ehrenreich has a very pro-socialist agenda. His father explained that he immigrated to the US--legally, by the way--because his home country was becoming too socialistic.So, on to the book itself.The premise is that the author will try to get by in the work force without government assistance (or any outside help) and that this will somehow prove that it's just impossible to do. The heartless capitalists must learn to see the light. This book will show them!! Oh, I forgot the catch. She has to do this by lying about any and of all of her intellectual achievements and training received outside of a high school diploma. She also has to start with some very modest material possessions, but allows herself a few changes of clothes and her car.This premise is a ridiculous one. Throughout the book she harps about how unfair and impossible it is to get by in a meritocracy because she and her fellow employees work so hard for so little. She continually acknowledges that the labor is mind-numbing and performed in a drone-like fashion, while simultaneously refusing to advance using any mental effort whatsoever. The solution she most often espouses is one of unionization or asking for others to pick up the slack for her and the others. She states several times that industrial societies have gotten where they are on the backs of the physical laborers.Well, she may be wrong about the solution and history, but at least her ideology is consistent. Post-industrial society--and even industrial before it--did not advance or even come into being because of asking the rich for their crust of bread, hands out. These societies developed because someone turned on his/her brain and decided to find a better way of doing things. Or instead of taking the easy way out and "letting management push them around," these people decided to take the responsibility of investment and ownership. All these things are possible through free market societies which encourage thrift, investment, personal property and savings by individual over state ownership, competition through open markets that cannot function in the cartel-like union-run industries.All through the book she bad-mouths--and she has a fairly foul-mouth--those who espouse a different view of the world, particularly those who aren't such malcontents, or those who have enough pride to refuse a hand-out, or even worse, those whose opposing views have realistically led to more successful lives. She paints herself in a way that seems very self-righteous and sympathetic to the "mistreated." This includes you AUTOMATICALLY, whether you find it demeaning or not, if you are any of the following: female, non-white, non-Christian, too lazy to seek education.She continues to handicap herself, but has no problem feeling bad for women with bad health and smoking habits. (For the record, I've worked several low wage jobs--to save up for my education--and never was foolish enough to spend a considerable percentage of my income on something that would only damage my health. I guess I'm insensitive). She feels bad for a lot of people who suffer the indignity of being paid based on their lack of skills (things she argues are skills are pretty silly, but if they were so difficult and she so skilled, and management so inept and unimportant, one has to wonder why she and the others don't start their own maid service or coffee shop, etc.). But that doesn't stop her from making fun of nursing home patients. Apparently those who have worked more in their lives, by her standards, than she could ever attempt do NOT deserve the same respect as the uneducated, unwed mother smoking waitresses and Wal-mart employees.The groups who offer help, by the way, are often refused. They tend to be of the Christian variety. This is intolerable to someone like Ehrenreich who attempts to mock them as often as possible. Anyone with a sensible work ethic or respect for management is treated with the same mocking irreverence.Her reference to Mao's "little red book," apparently a great source of wisdom, is enlightening. Oh those naive Americans...they just don't understand. Maybe one day we'll have our own Great Leap Forward. She doesn't say that specifically, but implies it continually. No thanks, Ehrenreich, you and Chairman Mao can enjoy agrarian reform that leaves at least 20 million dead in about 5 years on your own time. I will not promote such atrocities.Ehrenreich is actually a pretty good story-teller, and knows how to make the mundane fairly readable. The idea that this is more like investigative journalism than a soap box with hour-long TV drama writing is way off. It is pure indoctrination to make a teenager read this without any historical context. Even then, my young friend was able to see through the idiocy. Sadly, it appears few others have done the same. Maybe this is a fun book for self-righteous fools who don't understand "Atlas Shrugged," or even something simple like Hazlitt's "Economics in One Lesson." The smug attitude of the author doesn't help either.
5	1247616000	Book was exactly as described.  It arrived quickly.  Very pleased with service.  Would order again,.
5	1247529600	I wasn't inclined to be head over heels for N&D because it's an avowedly political take and the author's views are a lot further left than my own (that was the case when I first read this in 2002 and I don't think she's more conservative, or I'm more liberal, today), but the subject was interesting to me so I began reading a copy at my local library. I ended up reading the whole thing in a day, then re-read it, and then bought my own copy. The subject of poverty in this country is one that most people don't like to think about or are left throwing up their hands in despair over its intractability, and indeed there aren't any sweeping solutions to the poverty crisis in this book--what an interested reader will get is A) that there IS a genuine crisis, and one that's only gotten much worse in the face of the current brutal recession and B) what it feels like to work long hours for little pay in a country that does nothing to ameliorate these effects and much to magnify them. The book sides with labor and makes few efforts to present management as more than petty tyrants and/or slobs, but it's hard to sympathize with anyone other than the men and women (mostly women) who do so much and receive so little in return. The author clearly likes the women she's doing her undercover work alongside, and so did I. The details are clear and sharp, the logic is impeccable, and whichever way your policy wings spread it cannot be denied that this is a superb work of investigative journalism. 5/5.
1	1246924800	Ann Coulter accurately declares that "liberals live in a world in which everyone is either an oppressor or a victim" and this is exactly the stance Ehrenreich takes. I could start by saying that Ehrenreich's whole study is fundamentally flawed on account of the complete absence of any sort of explanation for the "working poor's" plight besides "welfare reform." She completely neglects to offer any type of reason for low-wage workers' living conditions. True, many low-wage workers are stuck in a certain lifestyle because that's all they've ever known, but for many (if not most) of them, their position in society is a result of their own life choices. For starters, Ehrenreich never mentions that many low-wage workers don't even finish high school let alone go on to some type of trade school or in the rare case, a university. Instead, "Barb" blames the conditions of the working poor on rich white people. She makes no attempt to conceal her contempt for her own race because, as Coulter's comment affirms, in the liberal world (to which Ehrenreich clearly is a card-carrying member) if you aren't a victim, then you're an oppressor. There's no room for any sociopolitical position in between. Somehow though, Barbara is conveniently exempt from the guilt she places on her white upper-middle class counterparts. There's no denying there are indeed people in this nation who genuinely need assistance, but to suggest that it's the fault of anyone who doesn't hold a $6-8/hour job is pure nonsense. Furthermore, she never explicitly states it, but nevertheless implies that the working poor would somehow have their problems fixed if we just gave them more public money. Ehrenreich condemns the corporate world for demanding so much of its employees for so little (which is the only point on which I agree with her) and much like companies scold employees over "time theft," Barbara posits that places like Wal-Mart are guilty of stealing their employees' time. I suppose then that theft is ok as long as it's the government stealing via increased taxation "rich" (anyone making more than $7/hour) people's money and redistributing it to the poor.
5	1246838400	I didn't grow up with much money and I know how hard it can be to get things started which is one reason I wanted to read this book. It's a facinating read about a woman who travels around and tries to live off lower paying jobs. Sure, she's doing it to write a book and devise a social study, but, boy, does what she writes resonate. I can't say enough good things about this one. If for nothing else, read it for the story of her and the vacuum cleaner, when she works as a maid. It was hilarious! This is a good read, as well as----Fast Food Nation.
3	1246752000	Other reviewers have summarized the premise and the topic, so I won't. This book starts with promise and ends disappointingly. I don't mean her slightly pontificating style, although that's definitely an issue, but rather in substance. Two comments to highlight what I mean:1. To protect their identities, she hides the identities of her ex-co-workers and their employers (except Wal-Mart). You can tell that she feels for her ex-co-workers and the fact that they are being exploited by management. But the things she describes are often violations of labor law, sometimes even criminal offences, including workplace safety violations, mandatory overtime, and the like. She could improve their lives by lending her name and credibility to a class action lawsuit. She wouldn't have to worry about repurcussions, because she's the ideal witness - she doesn't need the job! But instead, she refuses to go the extra mile and actually do something. The journalist stays out of the story, I suppose, but maybe when it actually matters she shouldn't.2. Compare the "being a maid" chapter, where she rips on rich people for leaving their stuff lying around, refusing to lift a finger to help themselves, etc. with the "working at Wal-Mart" chapter, where she doesn't rip on customers who leave their stuff lying around, don't lift a finger to help themselves, etc. There's a double-standard that detracts from the book: she wants to show that rich people who benefit from service-sector employees are evil, but refuses to acknowledge that *everyone* takes advantage of service-sector employees. There's an interesting issue there. She doesn't see it, or refuses to follow it. I can't tell which.
3	1246752000	Amazon.com performed flawlessly in getting this book to me in a timely manner!  I received it sooner than I anticipated.  This was an excellent surprise, as I needed it for a Sociology class.  Kudos to Amazon!The novel I give a mixed review.The author did do extensive field work & research into this aspect of society.  This is very much evident as you progress through the novel & as the author presents different models of the subculture that exists in our modern society of the ever negative prospect of the cost of living necessities in the minimum wage working class, especially for women (whether married, living with another, single or a single mother with children).  These evidences are very well researched, exposed and related by the author.However, the fact that she (the author) always had the trump card in her back pocket of her 'other life' (as a well & formally educated author with considerable liquid assets @ her disposal whenever she needed it in case of an emergency) does not bode well for her view of what it is like to be a member in this subculture.  Yes, she faced the same trials, tribulations, stipulations and restrictions of being on & adhering to a predetermined budgetary outline but she truly could not relate to the real desperation that these individuals face on a daily basis, for they had not any trump card in their back pocket.  Also, some of her previous life attitudes from earlier experiences & opinions on a number of subjects also shown through as biased (atheist, recreational drug use, divorce and a formal education).  I am not insisting these are negative qualities, only that these (her own experiences) are evident once you become aware of these going on in the background of the novel.All in all, a good novel, a good sociology class assignment & the author does well in exposing this subculture to the millions of us that would otherwise never have any insight to its existence & its difficulties that many of our minimum wage earning fellow American citizens (and aliens) face on a continuous daily basis.
5	1242518400	Barbara Ehrenreich goes undercover as an entry-level worker to determine whether or not she can make it on the wages paid to the majority of American employees.  She freely admits that she is only dipping a toe into the experience - she will not be homeless, she will have a vehicle, and of course she knows that at the end of the month she will be able to go back to her regular life.  The goal is to see if she can earn enough from her various jobs (a waitress, a maid and a clerk in a department store, respectively) to feed herself, house herself and save enough money for the next month's rent.  She is healthy and single with no dependent children, and has no chemical dependency issues weighing her down, and even with these advantages, and in a job market that was plentiful compared to the current one, she finds that she is unable to manage it.I am unable to call this book eye-opening, because I know just how difficult it is to make ends meet, and I was working in what is rather condescendingly referred to as the "pink collar" sector.  Even with my "middle-class" earnings, I was never more than a paycheck or two away from being in real financial trouble, and I did NOT live lavishly by any stretch of the imagination.  It is no surprise to me at all that $6-8.00 per hour is not enough to keep body and soul together.  Especially in America, where necessities of life (health care, food, housing) are, for some people, luxuries, this is a frustrating situation.What Ehrenreich does is open her own eyes to the drudgery and difficulty of daily life in this grind.  She has no pat answers for solving the deeply-entrenched problems that the working poor face; she is only able to shed a light on them.  What emerges in her occasionally witty, always gritty prose is confirmation of what I experienced as a worker - even on the somewhat higher rung that I occupied; if you're not one of the top 2%, you're invisible and expendable.  It's this attitude that helped me make my decision to leave the United States for more civilized climes, and I have never regretted that choice.
1	1242518400	This book was a waste of my time. The time she spent working on this book gave her BARELY a superficial knowledge of what it is like to live on or below minimum wage. She started out with a chunk of money to help her through hard times and constantly dipped into it yet acting like she had to work hard every hour to earn it all back. Sure, her back hurt a little and she may have been "offended" by drug tests, but it is not even remotely a taste of what it is like to work 2 jobs and not have a house to go home too. She wanted to go rescue her co-workers from low paying jobs, but she worked and spoke with the mindset of a well off White woman who is in these situations only temporarily. I doubt she came back to her real life and stopped hiring maids or even fought her change. Poor book, her experience was quite superficial and I am surprised so many people liked it.
4	1241827200	Its a good book; took a little long to get the book to me, but it was a good product
5	1240963200	Nickel and DimedI read this book after reading Dishwasher Pete, a very  lightweight read. Unlike Dishwasher Pete, Nickel and Dimed takes a hard look at how Americas low wage earners live and/or survive on such low wages. Nickel and Dimed is heavily footnoted, with anecdotal information and studies to support Ehrenreich's  claims. Throughout the book, Ehrenreich was pretty forthcoming when she could have cut corner's to save money but instead choose comfort over bargain. Had this book been written by a man I can imagine he would have been able to live at or below Ehrenreich's budget  because  most women don't feel comfortable sleeping in homeless shelters or around men whom they don't "know". Two, there are still jobs in America in which you can make a decent salary without a high school diploma but they require brute strength. Brute strength is an area where most women are lacking. The average man has 3x the upper body strength of a woman who is of the same height and weight.Overall, I would say this is a very good book. Ehrenreich lives and works among the poor and mentions how the poor are sometimes the cause or at least play a role in their  own  suffering. Take Ehrenreich pregnant coworker at Merry Maids who ate only a bag of Doritos for breakfast and lunch while her lazy boyfriend sat on his but at home with his hand out.  However, she also mentioned how employers take advantage of workers i.e. Wallmart low level health insurance for its' workers and pay wages so low that they don't allow one to eat a healthy diet and live in a decent apartment.Barbara Ehrenreich
5	1238889600	As a working-class American, I simply was not aware of how badly we treat those who work long hours in our service.  After reading this book, I will not fail to extend my thanks, and a monetary reward, for people who serve food, attend to hotel/motel rooms and work for employers who do not acknowledge their sacrifice by paying a fair, livable wage.  We talk about inclusion and equality but those are mere, hollow words.  Those who are willing to work at these jobs deserve a share of the profit.
2	1238803200	...barely support herself by the sweat of her brow."At her boss's urging, an upper middle-class writer (with a PhD in biology) sets out to see if she can make due on minimum wage. She spends three under-30-day periods in different areas of the country working as: a waitress, hotel maid, Walmart associate and a dietician/aide at an Alzheimer's facility. Turns out, she can barely make ends meet. Of that conclusion I can only say - tell me something I don't know. The problem is that while the issue of low wage earners being unable to eke out an existence is real and very important, Nickel and Dimed, with its author's annoying tone and technique in telling, might better be entitled "Diarrhea-of-the-Mouth'd Dame Slums (with the Socioeconomic Strugglers) and Tells." Ehrenreich undertook her (three months in chunks long) experiment in the year 2000. And somehow, through facts, filler, opinion, and a bit of blather, she was able to fill up an entire book on the subject! Best of the book is that an attempt to bring the workers' plight to light is laudable, worst is the writer's frequent inflammatory statements, which detract from what could have been a pretty good book.Of the clientele during a stint as a waitress, she has plenty to say, including (p 36) "The worst, for some reason, are the Visible Christians-like the ten-person table, all jolly and sanctified after Sunday night service, who run me mercilessly and then leave me $1 on a $92 bill." She excuses herself for choosing not to intervene when a fellow employee is accused of stealing and summarily fired by comparing her lack of bravery to what a prisoner of war might similarly suffer (p 41) "...plenty of brave people shed their courage in POW camps, and maybe something similar goes on in the infinitely more congenial milieu of the low-wage American workplace." Working at (p 62) "an Alzheimer's ward, bringing breakfast" to residents, Ehrenreich has a tough time thinking of it as a restaurant because "...in a normal restaurant...very few customers smell like they are carrying a fresh dump in their undies." As part of her argument against personality testing required for applying for some jobs, she writes (p 127) "...the truth is don't much care if my fellow workers are getting high in the parking lot or even lifting the occasional retail item, and I wouldn't snitch if I did." And of the frustration of her job at WalMart in the clothing department (p 165) "Once I stand and watch helplessly while some rug rat pulls everything he can reach off the racks, and the thought that abortion is wasted on the unborn must show on my face...I even start hating customers for extraneous reasons, such as, in the case of native Caucasians, their size...huge bulges in completely exotic locations, like the backs of the necks and the knees." And she has the gall to call ACORN, a fraud controversy-plagued voter registration organization, ACORN (p 231) "a scrappy advocate for the poor."In summary, Nickel and Dimed, about the serious and important problem low-wage earners face daily, is ruined by the author's unwillingness to ascribe to an important life lesson-It is not necessary to say (much less write) every thought that comes into your head. Check inside jacket back cover (with her latest book) for a more likely agenda involving more capitalistic pursuits than advocating for the poor (though she conspicuously toots her own horn over a short stint doing so). Those who loved this book may also enjoy The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down by Anne Fadiman. As for me, I prefer something along the lines of Mountains Beyond Mountains by Tracy Kidder.
4	1238198400	This book gives an insight to how the economically challenged live and it sheds light on what they go through to survive. It also sheds light just how wrong the government is when they make the salary brackets that determine who gets aid and who doesn't.
5	1237939200	If you want to grow as a human being, in your awareness of life beyond your own wants and needs, read this book.  Read it every few years to refresh your memory.  Finding ways to help the people she describes is easy if you do it one person at a time.
4	1237766400	Ehrenreich has a very interesting and worthwhile research question on the working poor in this country who are being severely mistreated.  I also loved her in text Marxist references.  However, her methodology is somewhat flawed.  She sets her own rules (having a car and an allowance) real poor people dont have these choices and she cant say that she really experienced desperation.  However, her undercover reporting did put her into contact with real day laborers and gave her a better appreciation for where they come from.  Overall, the book was very predictable and sometimes the author seemed elitist and her opinions were also simply thrown into the text and taken for granted.  However, still a good look into the world of day laborers.
3	1237420800	When I first read Barbara Ehrenreich's account of trying to live off minimum-wage and low-paying jobs in college, I was outraged. Clearly my moral high horse has shrunk a bit. I revisited the book after watching a recent interview Ms. Ehrenreich did with John Stossel (who, in my opinion, can sometimes grandstand a bit himself) in which she seemed downright flippant about allegations that she was her own worst enemy, and only through self-sabotage did she fail. Well, I've got to say, Stossel had a point. Reading the book as my adult-self, with a fresh eye, and in the midst of an economic downturn, my opinion changed. In many cases, she did sabotage herself, illustrated by moving all of the time (which means deposits, first and last month, etc), staying in a motel(!), and buying $40 pants. Obviously, there is a way to get by on the wages Ehrenreich was making, lots of people do it, but the key is that Ehrenreich simply lacked the tools to make it happen. I could go to the store right now and purchase a pair of unstained, presentable pants for under $10, but that's because I have the know-how to make that happen -- a wealth of knowledge that comes with an empty bank account. Those topics weren't really explored. Perhaps, she could have gone in depth about the folks who worked along side her, who don't get to go back to what one assumes is Ehrenreich's financially secure lifestyle. So while the lifestyle Ehrenreich was temporarily living might not be ideal for anyone, it certainly is a means to an end -- an end in which gaining job skills, being frugal, saving, and moving up the corporate ladder (yes, even Wal-Mart's) is possible if you make it a priority.
1	1237161600	Just see John Stossel's interview with Adam Shepherd in 20/20's "Bailouts & Bull****." His own book, called "Scratch Beginnings: Me, $25 and the Search for the American Dream" seems to expose Ehrenreich for the defeatist hack she apparently is.
1	1237075200	This book is a scham. Barbara has no work ethic, chooses poorly, and gave herself no chance at success.A guy named Adan Shepard wrote a book called Scratch Beginnings and he basically did the same thing. With a good attitude, hard work, and a little bit of good decision making he excelled where Barbara failed.It just goes to show you how far some hard work and perseverance will go.
1	1236902400	Having read this book I'm seriously considering writing my own and calling it THE TALE OF TWO FRIENDS.Twenty years ago, two friends took two very different paths, both were living at home with their parents, lazy shiftless and unproductive.  My parents kicked me out and forced me to get an apartment and a job.  The other was put on government assistance by his mom.  During the entire twenty years One never received handouts from his family the other did constantly.  Today one is a productive member of society, the other still on government assistance and still depending on family handouts.  Life is a choice and if you want to feel like a victim, then that's your choice not mine.In one of my first jobs, I worked signing up people for the television ratings both in the inner city and the suburbs.  One of the main things I realized is that America is the greatest country in the planet because many of the poor people are fat and most of them have TVs' unlike the rich, they sure spent a lot of time watching them.  Everyone has experienced walking into a retail store or fast food joint and seeing many of the employees overweight and dragging their FATBUTTS around yet, according to this book, they are so poor they can't even afford to eat.  Travel to third world countries and you'll see real poverty, farm workers who are skinny as rails and work from sunup to sundown 6-7 days a week.
5	1236124800	My daughter needed it for a Senior paper.  The book arrived in a timely manner and in great shape.  This is all that I can say for now.
3	1235952000	I ordered this book for a project in a policy class in the Masters in Social Work curriculum.  It was interesting, easy to read, humorous at times - all of which I enjoyed. The book is not heavy on details or statistics related to Welfare Reform or minimum wage.  It did serve as a great backdrop for my presentation.
5	1235260800	Even though I ordered a new book it was in awesome condition. Shippped right on time, it even arrived a little earlier than I expected.The book's condition, as I said, was great no scratches or folded ripped pages. Excellent.
5	1235088000	This is a great book on how to look at your spending and manage it for the better...
3	1234310400	Barbara Ehrenreich's based her book "Nickel and Dimed" around the question: "Could a woman, recently thrust into the working world by welfare reform, survive on the $6-$7 per hour she would earn as an unskilled laborer?"  Ehrenreich attempts to answer this question by working a series of low wage jobs and attempting to self-sufficient on only these earnings.  She holds a variety of jobs, including waiting tables, cleaning houses, and clerking at Wal-Mart and is rarely able to pay rent and buy food, even after obtaining a second job and working seven days a week.  The housing she is able to find that find within her budget is substandard, and sometimes unsafe.  The food she able to buy is unhealthy.  Seemingly at every turn are setbacks, failure, and despair.  And yet, the human will to survive is evident in many of her coworkers, and she marvels at their ability to  eke a living out of dire circumstances.Ehrenreich makes several important points in this book.  The main thrust of the work is that a single woman, working as unskilled labor at a low wage, doesn't make enough money to purchase the basic necessities of survival; she cannot be self-sufficient.  She supports this idea fairly well by relating her experiences, the trials and tribulations of being poor. However, this is now case study. This is gonzo journalism in the tradition of Hunter S. Thompson.  Ehrenreich is an active participant in each situation, and often seeks to influence things to benefit the women she works with.  As an active participant, Ehrenreich shows an active, if just, bias towards her coworkers.Ehrenreich also states that low wage jobs can bring about other problems for the working poor, such as physical injuries from strain and repetitive motion, poor health from poor nutrition, and unsafe living conditions.  Furthermore, the working poor are also exploited by managers and business owners who oppress employees, discouraging or denying them their rights, treating without even a basic level of respect or dignity, and seeking to completely wear out and destroy employees in the name of higher profits.While Ehrenreich's ideas may be completely accurate, there is a disturbing lack of rebuttal from the managers and owners of the businesses that employ low wage earning employees.  This is all a one-sided argument - we do not get any information or insight from the other side of the low wage equation.  Ehrenreich paints the managers and owners that appear in the work as domineering, soulless men feeding hard working employees to a ever-voracious beast known as a workplace.  There is also a sexist tone to this work; with one or two exceptions, all the low wage employees are women, and all managers are men.Ehrenreich's heart is in the right place in this work.  She succeeds in making a forceful argument about the inability of low wage workers to survive on solely their earnings.  But this should be viewed as a informed, yet biased, commentary.  The author is not balanced in her exploration and discussion of the working poor, and this failing detracts from the value of this work as a source of information about work as a cure for poverty.
5	1233792000	I disagree with this review, I am a psychology student with an interest in helping people whom are less advantaged than I am yet I am relatively young and unfamiliar with the "system".  Ehrenreich's book detailing her experience as an undercover long-term low-wage worker was eye-opening, sympathetic, and passionate. I don't think that her objective was to point out fault with those whom are more advantaged nor place responsibility on the them for the plight of the poor. I believe, rather, that Ehrenreich was attempting to provide the readers with insight into the ways in which many of us take for granted the opportunities we are provided for self-sufficiency that many of the people in the lower class are not afforded, many through no fault of their own.By doing this, Ehrenreich is certainly attempting to raise awareness of the plight of the working poor; not to place guilt or shame on those who are better off but rather to identify systems within our society that perpetuate poverty. Her detailed story also dispels many stereotypes about the working poor, particularly that they are lazy, mainly from minorities and that the government assistance they are provided is sufficient. In order to implement changes and put a dent in the plight of the working poor, it is important to raise awareness about the actuality of their situation in order to dismiss myths and stereotypes that leave many to ignorantly believe that we have no social responsibility toward alleviating such significant societal problems.The co-workers and acquaintances Ehrenreich met throughout her journey were largely not represented as "helpless" or "doomed". They were instead, in my opinion, represented as courageous and motivated to improve their situation.  The stories she provided about these people shed light on their willingness and readiness to leave a life of poverty yet also showed the many difficulties and hardships making it nearly impossible for them to achieve social mobility. So, I can see how one might get the impression that she was deeming these people "doomed into a life of poverty" but I don't think her intention was to place blame on them, but to rather point out the societal forces that make mobility difficult and subsequently serve to perpetuate such stereotypes about the working poor.Government actions to help alleviate the plight of the working poor must be meant by intense public support in order for their actions to make a difference. It is therefore necessary to raise awareness of the things that we, the more advantaged, take for granted in order to replace nationwide ignorance surrounding the poor with empathy and social responsibility. Enhrenreich does just this by shedding light on the realization that the things we view as necessities are actually a relative luxury and that many of the stereotypes we have are the poor are actually far from the truth.
2	1233446400	The seller blamed it on the slow mail, but the book didn't show up until after the estimated date.
3	1233360000	I read this book (required reading) while in college.  While this book is very well written, Ms. Ehrenreich lets her politics and open contempt for religion (especially Christianity) take an unwarranted role in her otherwise insightful, if not comprehensive, look into the lives of the American working poor.  Her occasional gratuitous use of a few Communist party slogans adds little of value to her work.  I suspect they were thrown in with the thought of being witty, but the problems we face in America today and the sanguinary solutions of the red terror are not appropriately joined. All that said, with caution, I have recommended her book on numerous occasions, and I feel it is a work worthy of serious thought.When this book was written, the U.S. economy seemed to be soaring higher and higher. Today, many more people are out of work, the economy is shrinking and millions of people are facing the prospect of chronic unemployment, underemployment, bankruptcy and we already see an increase in homelessness.  This book spoke about a large number of people when it was written.  It speaks about a much larger number today.It is regrettable that Ms. Ehrenreich gives free reign to her political and anti-religious sentiments in what is otherwise a book that is all too important.  Her personal agenda detracts from her important message. If anything, this book is remarkable despite it flaws.
1	1233187200	I really wanted to read this book because of all the great reviews, but I was horribly disappointed. And instead of feeling educated, I felt insulted.Yes, this book does enlighten those who don't already know about poor working conditions that working for low hourly wages and having to support not only yourself but a family, really, really sucks and is really hard to do. And yes, sometimes the "working poor" get stuck in self-perpetuating cycles. And yes, don't assume that just because you have a job, you shouldn't be poor or homeless....but come on, isn't it already obvious to everyone that it's a hard knock life for those who can't make ends meet?? The working poor would not willingly choose to be "working poor" if they could help it.This book is definitely geared towards those in the upper echelon of society because for those who ARE actually waitresses, Merry Maids, and Wal-Mart employees, it's like a slap to the face. Ehrenreich exaggerated the things that didn't need to be exaggerated (like cleaning poop-stained toilets) but failed to underscore the things that really matter. I mean, harping on spending $30 for a pair of Dockers, $20 for a belt, and not being able to purchase a $7 polo shirt at Wal-Mart is just lame. I can find much cheaper pants at TJMaxx or at my local Salvation Army. If you're going to conduct this social experiment, stop complaining about the things actual people in those working conditions silently endure every single day.For a book that supposedly opens a new perspective on the working poor, it was a poorly conducted and poorly written experiment with too much of the author's own personal sass, bias, and repeated emphasis on a PHd in biology. Oh, how noble of Ehrenreich to take off her royal crown and toil in low wage jobs like millions of Americans do everyday. You would've gotten a much better and much more real take on the working class situation by following the life of an actual member of the "working poor" and writing an autobiography from those findings.Ehrenreich writes this book as if she is an expert on the situation because she has "lived" like the working poor, but honestly, it's just like how Tyra Banks donned a fat suit for a day and claimed she knew how it felt like to be overweight/obese. Or how she magically understood the trials and tribulations of being a homeless person because she pretended to be one for a day. Great concept for a book, just sloppy (despite the foreshadowed grandeur) and poorly executed.
5	1231804800	Yes, I can see how a lot of people are saying "it must be nice, she can just go back to being rich after this little experiment". That is true, but most people (even other wealthy liberals) wouldn't actually bother to put themselves in someone else's shoes to the extent that she did, and by doing this she told the stories of not just herself but other people whose stories would otherwise have not been told. I wonder what would happen if some CEOs were required to do this?A lot of people have the attitude that poverty is always the result of laziness or irresponsibility. This book shows how easy it is to fall through the cracks. Even in an economically prosperous time, she fell behind in most of her attempts. If you don't have any extra savings, or some friends or relatives to fall back on, you end up paying a lot more money in the short run by living in hotels (b/c you don't have security deposit) and eating fast food (b/c you don't have cooking supplies). Missing one day of work, even for the doctor, is a major setback at places that don't have vacation pay or health insurance. Looking for another job means missing time at work and losing money. Employers get away with breaking labor laws b/c 1) people don't know their rights, and 2) even if they do, the employer can just hire someone else. I've seen this happen lots of times. The book describes the workplace as a dictatorship, and for low wage people who need their job and could be fired for "insuboordination", it basically is. Although labor laws outlawed working more than 40 hours per week, many people work a part time job in addition to a full time job, which is more than 40 hours anyway.Yes, of course people can get out of poverty through their own efforts, like the man in The Pursuit of Happyness. However, stories like this are rare, and the result of extraordinary luck and smarts as well as hard work. I admire people who can bring themselves out of poverty, but they are the exception.This book talks about how after "welfare reform", people just plain went back to working poverty. It also talks about the growing gap between rich and poor. Usually people are against helping poor people b/c they think it is socialism, but the current situation as she describes it is more like feudalism.This book will probably depress you, but it can also make you thankful for what you have. I am lower middle class, but I see that it can be a lot worse, and I'd rather be aware.
2	1231804800	I don't think someone from a privileged upbringing like Mrs. Ehrenreich could possibly understand what it feels like to live the lives of those she profiled in this book. While she could step into their shoes for a brief few days, she knew she had a lavish book contract she was doing it for, she knew she had an education and a world of options available to her. She would never be able to experience something more intense: knowing she would have no safety nets, no help, no future, and a past she feared to reminisce in.I found her condescension offensive at times. At one point, she referred to TGI Friday's in a scoffing manner, as part of an example of things the poor like; in reality most struggling people could not afford TGI Friday's, that seems to be a middle class establishment. I remember that in my own life (rife with struggle), I had seen TGI Friday's as a special occasion place, for celebrations like birthdays and holidays. Ehrenreich's attitude sheds light on how limited her understanding and pity is. She sees TGI Friday's like I would see a Burger King.Her choice to go to a dry cleaners was far removed from the choices most underprivileged people would make. Most would hide a stain or purchase a few new outfits from a thrift store rather than blow money on dry cleaners - I cannot name a single truly poor person that I have known in my life that would even know what a dry cleaners is like and what it costs. When you struggle, you don't have room in your budget for such expenses. Barbara could only make room because she never felt real struggle.Her food choices were also illustrative of a life of privilege. I made do with oatmeal and Ramen when I struggled, budgeting 5-10 dollars a week for food. Her purchasing habits illustrate the sort of budget a rich woman would draw up on a "poor man's salary" and reminds me of an online project I found, by someone else, where they attempted to eat all organic for 300 dollars a month (a food stamp budget). These little trial experiments run by privileged people, to get a taste of being poor, are as authentic as me claiming to be rich by wearing costume shop baubles and smoking a cigar. It's costume play, it never allows you to draw into any of the emotional and social depth of the group you're trying to understand.These and numerous examples illustrated the fact that the book was written, simply, for an upper middle class audience. I found the book to be well-written and sometimes persuasive, but overall it left a bitter taste in my mouth. I, unlike Barbara, struggled during my lifetime and had been in similar or worse situations as the people she eyed pitifully, and then decided to write about, in her best-selling book.This book was part of the required material we would read in a college advanced English class I was in. I found it ironic that I would have to read a wealthy woman's account of what it was like to be poor, considering my own experiences. I was a homeless 18 year old girl that had managed to win scholarships based on my high performance in high school, despite the fact I was just riding out of a 2 year struggle with schizophrenia, which I was diagnosed with at 16 after a sudden, horrific, long episode (which would fade away as rapidly as it came, only to haunt me like a specter, capable of reappearing throughout my life). Because of my illness, I had alienated my family and friends, many of which never knew the extent of my problems. I left home and lived in squalid apartments with boyfriends or friends.There I was, without a computer, often relying on school labs to write essays and papers when I wasn't at one of my two jobs I had to churn through to even afford to support myself and the gas I needed to drive to school and to my jobs. I worked at a Toys R Us store and at a clothing store. I purchased all my clothing from thrift stores. Yet, with tremendous pride, I never spoke about my own struggles. Once I read this book, however, I felt exhausted with it's pitying tone and it's assumptions that one could possibly evoke the despair, the hideousness, of being disadvantaged.I spoke briefly about my experiences in class, and found that people would not meet my eye, and often regarded me with distaste. When I explained how I could live on 5 dollars a week for food, stretching a box of oatmeal and ramen noodles to survive, nobody would even comment. The classroom was full of middle and upper class students that could mutter about how they could feel and understand the poor people in the book, could write essays proselytizing about the awfulness of society and how it shuts out the neediest among us. Yet at the same time, they were uncomfortable with being my friend, with helping me, with even hearing me talk about what I was going through. Knowing I was homeless and struggling had them regard me as weird, had them judging me and assuming I was a drug addict or that it was all my fault. Despite what they read, they could only apply their learned assumptions as far as it served them, to advance themselves in their class and to showily talk about how they "feel" for the poor. I simply made my much wealthier classmates uncomfortable, for I didn't exist comfortably in a book as a flat character they could sympathize over. I was a living, breathing person that challenged their imagined generosity - sure, they cared ever so deeply for the poor, and yet here was a poor person among them, and not one person offered me a place to stay or any sort of help. Of course, I didn't ask for it, but it made the things they wrote in their essays or spoke of in class completely meaningless.I talk about my experiences within that class because it reflects my experiences reading this book as a whole. The target audience's ability to relate to poor people by living vicariously through Ehrenreich's experiences is really displacement of their guilt and lack of true compassion. I would guarantee that 90-95% of people that have read this book were only temporarily affected emotionally, and that most, if not all, were not changed for life in any way. Most would still hold the same assumptions and judgments of homeless people, of people that struggle, that need welfare to make ends meet. The majority would not dedicate a fraction of their paycheck, or their time, to help underprivileged people in their communities.This book does not make a real difference in society. It advances Ehrenreich to required-reading status at privileged private colleges and it gives guilty, privileged people another cause or issue to tack onto the growing lists they care about but would not sacrifice for. Just like how most people are well aware of the poverty and hunger in conflict, AIDS and drought-torn Africa, and yet only a fraction of a percentage would put their lives on pause and go overseas to distribute vaccines and food aide pouches. We can all shed a tear over a documentary on Darfur, but our excuses as to why we put our own massively advantaged lives and privileges first, over going to the Sudan to volunteer, ar endless.This book will not help the plight of the poor, it does not change the stereotypes that affect the ability of struggling and poor people to land better jobs, or help homeless people gain respect and shrug off the misconstrued assumptions applied to them by others. This book rings hollow, it leaves a bitter taste in the mouth of anyone who has ever TRULY struggled and endured years of struggle. I myself have had very little in my life but I constantly give back; I worked tirelessly and have put myself through nursing school and upon my graduation, I intend to travel abroad to offer humanitarian aid. I don't want to paint myself off as a saint, I am simply trying to prove my point here - this book is just meaningless heart-string tugging fodder for a guilty generation of people that are unwilling to take the steps necessary to challenge and change the social ills causing poverty and struggle in America.The causes of poverty are intricate and networked, like a web, across the nation, connecting industries and employers. If you are not fighting actively against the forces behind them, you are supporting them (just as with remaining silent about racism, sexism or any other semi-transparent social force). We are all complicit by shopping at stores like Wal-Mart, which encourage the devastation of the lower class, or by carefully holding onto our privileges and status and refusing to actually give, and give generously and plentifully (not just money you would've spent on your latte, but money that you will actually miss, knowingly wanting it to go for those who would have never otherwise had that money in the first place).We need to mobilize everyone to act and to vote for which companies they support and which people they reward.We need to protest the gross overpayment of sports stars and celebrities (who in turn endorse soccer balls and Nike shirts that are made by children in sweatshops and sold by struggling people in Wal-Marts nationwide).We need to be politically active.Oh, but already, it's a lot of work, it requires time and effort, and a sacrifice of one's own comfort. So of course, it won't happen, but we'll see plenty of sales of books like this, which can momentarily affect someone's life but in the long run have no positive effect on the struggling working poor it intended to expose.
1	1231459200	This was a book club selection and I thought is would be a good read.Well, it was a fast read, however......The lady had a template all prepared and wrote her story to fit it.(Several of us wondered if most of it was even true.) The employers are mostly rich, heartless, greedy ogres and the people they hire are mostly honest, hard working people who are poor through no fault of their own.Taking up for the thief was really over the top. (Is stealing OK if there is a "good" excuse? Who decides what a "good" excuse is?)Her smug disdain for the literary collection of one of the clients of the maid service, says more about her than the jacket of her book.The left in this country love to give away the money earned by others.I wonder if Ehrenreich gave any of her proceeds to the poor people who populated her book. I would bet not.
5	1229126400	"On (Not) Getting By in America"; this sentence itself, incorporates the whole sense of the author's precious experience, and prospects to the potential reader a prompt sense of discomfort. Or at least, cues the awareness that somebody in this country is not indeed "living large".Coincidentally, I think about it everyday, especially when I notice curious people driving in the next lane of the highway, during my tedious attempts to respect the 55-miles speed limit. "Curious" in this case is definitely a euphemism; I see individuals with obvious dental problems. Some have scarce or rotten teeth, and in some rare cases don't have teeth at all. I often catch myself in the rear view mirror shaking my head and naively wonder, how in the world can one neglect one of the main priorities, like personal hygiene or health care? In actuality, I always believed that you can have a fairly good idea of the social status of anyone anywhere in the world when they open their mouth, or by looking at them straight in the eyes. There you find clear indications of how they lived their childhood and youth, and which were the main concerns of the family in which they were reared. Consequently, as they approach adulthood, they keep carrying this scarlet letter as an undesired mark of infamous heritage. Moreover, a common denominator among the people I encounter is that they look precociously aged, probably  by a distressed and sullen existence. At times they drive vehicles totally corroded and possessed by rust, and yet, I wonder if they will be able to get home safe to their families. Most of them are poorly dressed, and the expression they bear in their face is of utter alienation, desperation, misery, and hopelessness.What are the possible causes of all that? Why do some people neglect their health, appearance, and basic safety? Ehrenreich provides us with one strong and simple answer: indigence, a disease common to millions of low-waged American workers. In her book, she lists personal experiences, statistical data, and specific information to explain and support some of the truly plausible reasons. She talks about real people, and reveals their personal dramas.However, I am sure that some of these real people would not feel honored to be involuntary protagonists of Ehrenreich's book; or, ironically, maybe they would (!), for the reassuring feeling that "finally somebody knows", acknowledges and sympathizes with their daily wearing fight for survival. Perhaps they would be even able to feel the warmth of its solidarity, if the uncompassionate world in which they strive everyday would not have caused them to be outraged, and by contrast, numbed by the plethora of opulence that surrounds them. An opulence that appears to be at everybody's reach- the true American dream- but sooner or later unfolds to many with its true identity: a plain and simple chimera.The Author sapiently describes her experiences with great pragmatism and dances on semantics seemingly without any perceptible effort, demonstrating a superb ownership of her native language. She does not spare harsh criticism to her temporary employers when portraying the world of the mistreated, the humbles, the humiliated, those that do not have an alternative, those whose dignity has departed its main headquarters like a soldier who ventures off to a war in another continent, and does not seem to be ever coming back.I admire her ability to fully immerse herself in this "underworld", and deliver a sagacious observation on the dynamics that govern the lives of low-waged American workers. Yet, I particularly agree with some of her statements: as an example, when working as a maid and analyzing the possibility of hiring help for her house, she rebukes the idea of "having this kind of relationship with another human being" (Ehrenreich;91). I utterly adore this sentence; it "wraps it all up", in my opinion. After all, what is a relationship with another human being supposed to be based on? Shouldn't respect for every individual be the paramount of our daily social interactions? Or should an obese, ignorant, and crass lady-wearing a cheap and acidulous cologne-order a maid to kneel, and scrub her repulsive bathroom floor with her bare hands, and in her presence? Well, this hypothesis does not seem acceptable to me.Nonetheless, we assist episodes of public humiliation in the workplaces every sacred day, and in all forms and variations, whether we eat at a restaurant, or we step into a public facility. Sometimes, I happen to see a janitor in the restrooms of my own workplace, and I cannot avoid feeling a sense of embarrassment, to notice how "different" our lives are. He/she works in the so-called "restrooms", but this embellishing noun does not make them dissimilar from latrines, because that's what they really are: a place where people dump their organic fluids and stenchy excrements. A fancy name does not masquerade their true designed purpose, especially when the outcome of some citizen's expedition is evidently visible on the toilet seat, or worse, on the floor. The idea that somebody, another human being, will have to bear with that sight and smell on a daily basis, only because he/she has no better choice, triggers in me a deep sense of depression; being born in the wrong family, in a bad time of history, or in a poor country, makes all the differences in the universe. Here I am, and I cross paths with a janitor-mostly an hard-working immigrant- that does not feel comfortable looking you straight in the eyes, almost as he/she would not be feeling dignified enough, just like the vassals would do in medieval feudalism, in presence of their lord. Yes, of course, "somebody ought to do that job", hence it is a task that has to be accomplished; that's the only reason why I put up with the idea of its existence, but I try to be as respectful as I can, to show my sincere and deepest sympathy or at least to establish a "bridge of communication". Ehrenreich provides us with and excellent, extensive and hilarious comment on her experience with the restrooms in the paragraph "Scrubbing in Maine", at page 92 of the aforementioned book; her choice of words is striking, and although disgusting, her description of "how to clean a toilet seat" is an exhilarating thriller.Nonetheless, albeit being exhilarating, its depressing content keeps reminding us how miserable the lives of many workers -such as those employed in the janitorial services- can be; at least as miserable as that of anyone working for less that $10 an hour. In fact, despite the vivid and yet-still-bright survival of the "American Dream", the author brilliantly points out on page 186 that there is a great truth that she had been discovering during the course of her expedition: for those working with low-wage salaries, life goes on in the very same way, day after day, minute after minute, and nothing happens, let alone the possibility to improve either the quality of their job or that of their lifestyle. One can work for decades breaking his/her own back and putting up with chronic muscular pains, to find out that the light at the end of the tunnel has still the diameter of a micron.It's also remarkable in my opinion, her consideration on the relationship between the strength of the economy and the cost of the rent, when she cannot afford housing in Minneapolis: upon quoting the statement of a public official with the phrase "the stronger the economy, the stronger the upward pressure on rents" (Ehrenreich;172), she sarcastically notices to be "victim of prosperity, not of poverty". In other words, the worse your financial situation, the deeper your precipice will be. Paradoxically, richness (and the pursuit of it) can be a blessing and a damnation, at the same time.In essence, I evidently showed my appreciation for the book, mostly for  its openly declared social commitment, and honest sober critique to the challenges of the capitalistic economic model; the lives and the hurdles of millions of Americans who work for less than $10 an hour are truly invisible to the affluent, but through her book, there is a slight chance that many will become aware of this unfair, inhumane polarization.However, I cannot neglect to observe that her publication is often adorned with an endless surplus of negative stories tied to each individual with whom she works in each of the settings; those negative stories seem to be abounding at times, causing the profiles of those low-waged involuntary protagonists twisted into victims and/or scapegoats of this unjust society. I stand absolutely far from denying that people can have several problems at once, such as bad health, a violent spouse, or a drug addiction, but some of the characters of the book appear to have them all at once, like they were living a jinxed and catastrophic existence. Hence-and alas-in my opinion, some paragraphs appear on occasion to assume a grotesque connotation, such to deteriorate the primary social purpose of the author's initiative and favor a more extreme but entertaining content, almost a fairy tale: the cause of this, I believe,  is a clear abuse of poetic license, or maybe, the victory of marketing over social obligation. Ironically, and to the same extent, the original purpose is eventually defeated by the same enemies it was once committed to obliterate.Ehrenreich writes very well, knows what she writes and which keys to play, but is also visibly pleased to read her own writing, and genuinely admits it by stating that writing is a great tool to feed our own ego.In conclusion, although I slightly disagree on the Author's approach towards her writing style, I absolutely adore her book, and passionately hope that it will be read by everyone, especially our state representatives and all the American people; I wish that they might eventually gain awareness of the gruesome reality that millions of low-waged fellow workers face everyday, when they are forced to "check their civil liberties at the door of their workplace and leave America and all it supposedly stands for behind, and learn to zip their lips for the duration of the shift", as Ehrenreich puts it on page 210. I look forward to the day our governors will find the inspiration to start facilitating a set of interventions aimed at reestablishing a decent and humanely life for all of the citizens, and most importantly, fostering the true and ultimate essence of every human being: their dignity.
1	1228867200	I can only conclude that the author slept with the publisher, since I can't imagine why a rational person would publish such a total misfire.  Great concept for a book, which is why I picked it up, but executed by an author who put very little effort into the project.  It's all about her, and that's a problem in a first person account, because she's spoiled, lazy, vacuous and narcissistic.  It's so hard to follow what is supposed to be the subject of this "expose" because the ratio of topical content to her whining is so low.  SPARE YOURSELF.  THIS IS NOT A SERIOUS PIECE OF WORK.  You will not even be able to finish this book, as you will end up furious that someone published it and wasted your time. I wish I could give it zero stars.
4	1228694400	The working poor are the backbone of American society.  They prepare and serve us food, sell us clothing, and clean our homes and businesses.  Author Barbara Ehrenreich's book "Nickel and Dimed" detailed her adventures in working various low paying jobs, trying to find affordable housing and food.  Ehrenreich struggled to find safe, affordable housing while pondering issues such as health problems, how to manage with children, and the burden of working more than one job to make ends meet.Each of these jobs was physically demanding, yet provided no benefits in case of injury or illness -  insurance was either not available or unaffordable.  At one point, Ehrenreich treated an illness by calling her physician.  This distinguished her from those who would not have access to such assistance.Ehrenreich interspersed her descriptions with statistics regarding labor laws, drug screening processes, and affordable housing.  This grounded her work in facts, solidifying her arguments on the impact of poverty.  The author repeatedly discussed her activist tendencies, ranging from attempts to circumvent a drug screen to trying to incite a labor movement at a Walmart. This left-leaning perspective is evident in her proposal that the government should provide more benefits to its citizens in order to make up for low wages.  The most salient point refers back to the need for access to health care.As a personal reflection, the book succeeds at showing how an educated, middle-class woman experienced a foray into poverty.  Ehrenreich briefly interviewed a friend's aunt who had raised children in poverty and eventually moved into the lower middle class.  This story and the stories of those she worked with should have been elaborated.  The book would have been richer with more of these details.  Because of this lack of detail, I would give the book a rating of 4 out of 5.  This book would be of interest to those who want to read about personal experiences or who want an introduction to the issues of poverty.  Ehrenreich begins to tell the women's stories, but often fails to fully flesh out her subjects.
5	1228608000	Working Hard is Not EnoughThe number of people categorized as working poor may be as high as 60 to 80 million (Brooks, 2007). In Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America, Barbara Ehrenreich paints a picture of the day-to-day realities of living in poverty. Ehrenreich leaves her job as a successful author and begins a journey to investigate how people make ends meet on a minimum wage. She travels to three cities and works in a variety of jobs including waitressing, house cleaning, nursing home aide, and a retail clerk.Ehrenreich discovers that safe, affordable housing is a major obstacle forcing some of her co-workers to live in their cars. She resorts to living in substandard apartments and motels, and often works two jobs, seven days a week to provide her most basic needs. Employees are overwork and managed by humiliation and lack of respect to keep them compliant. Ehrenreich concludes that working hard and playing by the rules is not enough to live above the poverty level.Ehrenreich's book is a moving, thought-provoking informal narrative with respectful humor woven throughout the text. The book is written for anyone who desires insight into a life of poverty. Footnotes provide statistical and supportive data. The author suggests that bad public policy has made victims of hardworking people and that a safety net should be created. However, she offers no solid solutions as to how to bring about change. Her experience provides a unique perspective that could give policy-makers insight into how to bring this issue into the political arena to change ineffective policies.Ehrenreich's book is highly recommended and receives a five star rating. It is startling to realize that Americans do not have the security that the economy can provide jobs with a wage high enough to keep them out of poverty. Anyone who works fulltime, around the year should receive an income that can keep them out of poverty. This book brings the issues of the workingpoor into the public arena and can provide a stimulus for a more focused dialog about howpoverty is a concern for all Americans.ReferencesBrooks, F. (2007). The living wage movement: Potential implications for the working poor. Families in Society, 88(3), 437-422. doi: 10.1606/1044-3894.3653Ehrenreich, B. (2007). Nickel and dimed: On (not) getting by in America. New York: Henry Holt and Company.
5	1227657600	Barbara Ehrenreich decided to see what it was like to see the underside of the American Dream by working a number of lower paying jobs in America. I read this book about two years ago and it is still with me, I have started leaving money for the people who clean my hotel rooms, and otherwise trying to help solve the inequities of the system that we work under in society. With what is happening now in the economy, this book is even more important today given that as the money system fails, we need to understand the ways that people have to live.What is interesting are the jobs that were taken, a house cleaning person, Wal-Mart, and being a waitress. It was impossible for her to make ends meet on those incomes. Not that she did not try, but the numbers did not work out, they cannot work out, they will never work out until we as a society work out the cost of living here. Probably the most stunning was the housekeeper story, that one has the most impact of all the stories. That alone makes you realize how hard it can be for people to empathize with each other, you can just see the look on the person's face who is complaining about the service, when the service was excellent.What was also striking about the house cleaner story was the camaraderie of the women involved in the job. They helped each other despite all the things that were thrown at them. They showed an exemplary example of teamwork and caring for each other knowing that few else would care. In all this is a powerful testament to people, the people who work in the hidden jobs who we do our best to ignore but rely on. After reading this book, you will find that you tip better, that you care a bit more, and you will understand that the lowest price is not always something you want to go for. Compelling and readable, this is one of those stories that will change your life. Give it five of five stars, it is an eye opening story.
5	1227398400	aPPEEARS TO BE A GREAT BOOK WHIHCH MY WIFE IS USING FOR HER MSW STUDIES.
3	1226620800	I'm glad this book was written and has been so widely read. People need to know this stuff. However, I didn't find it an enjoyable read, and not because of the depressing subject matter. Ehrenreich's attitude bugged me. The moment that disgusted me most? When she mentions casually how she allowed herself a handful of tapes, then lists the artists - just so we all admire her musical tastes. I bet if she listened to Celine Dion and Hanson, she wouldn't feel it was germane.
4	1226016000	Many of us have worked at jobs that barely paid the bills, and paid us much less than we considered we were worth.  An increasing number of people live lives dependent on such jobs.  How does one make it in a country where the rents, food costs, transportation costs and health care costs routinely outpace the rise of minimum wages?  Barbara Ehrenreich tried an experiment - she took on the task of finding such jobs, one in cleaning, one in restaurant serving, and one in retail, to see if she could make it even for a month on such wages.Ehrenreich confesses to cheating - her transportation was always assured, she started with a comfortable sum, and really didn't have to worry about the longer-term issues of health care or saving for the unexpected.  Still, the experiment was eye-opening.  Despite the fact that the population served by places that cater to low-wage earners such as weekly residential hotels and food kitchens, it often costs more in time and money for people to take advantage of such things.  The amount of time Ehrenreich spent trying to get free food amounted to a considerable sum, even if calculated at the minimum wage.  Of course, this was also time that could not be spent in terms of education or job searching - how can one improve one's lot in life if basic survival needs take up so much time and energy?I work with people and teach in schools where people, even if they aren't living on absolute minimum wages, still exist in a state where an auto breakdown can make the difference between finishing the semester or not, or where a computer breakdown or inability to get to a free library computer can make the difference of getting through a degree program.  Most low-wage earners are among the hardest working people in the country, as Ehrenreich discovers in her experiment, and many have family obligations on top of the job-and-a-half or two-job life (and, of course, many of those are single mothers).  From big box stores to small businesses, the routine infringement of privacy and personal rights was intense, but something that apparently is treated as routine, both by those who invade and those invaded.Ehrenreich's book has been used as community reads and common reading projects at various schools and colleges.  There are some critiques worth mentioning - Ehrenreich's politics are on the liberal side, and that turns off some readers (including, as it happens, many who fall in the low-wage category).  Her message can be distorted to fit different political agendas, not always of her intention.  The experiment also presents a few slices of life that are far from a statistical or scientific study; as an anecdotal piece, this is very fascinating, but one needs to look elsewhere for facts and figures.  As Ehrenreich states, however, it is hard to calculate in this bracket - the official poverty levels bear little relationship to who really is or is not poor, and that can vary from one part of the country to another.  Ehrenreich's experiment also doesn't fully capture the experience of much of the poor, who also tend to be minorities; a bit of this poked through as Ehrenreich found she was sometimes considered for certain roles and not others just because she was not a minority.On the whole, this is a fascinating book, well worth reading by those of us in the more comfortable classes to see just what many have to go through to survive in our generally affluent society.
2	1225670400	There are no words that I could use to describe this woman's attitude that haven't already been sprinkled throughout Amazon reviews; whiny, preachy, arrogant, self-righteous, annoying...you get the point. She seems to be the worst kind of person: the kind that pretends to care about the plight of others in order to further her own career. I'd put her up there with Jesse and Reverend Al. Allow me to quote her actual words:"I originally sought what I assumed would be a relatively easy job in hotel housekeeping and found myself steered into waitressing, no doubt because of my ethnicity and English skills.""Unlike many low-wage workers, I have the further advantage of being white and a native English speaker.""I ruled out places like New York and L.A., for example, where the working class consists mainly of people of color and a white woman with unaccented English seeking entry-level jobs might only look desperate or weird."I'm sorry, is she white and privileged? I didn't happen to catch that part. Also, yeah, it would look desperate. That's what you get when you're actually poor. You know, desperate.She laces the book with many footnotes and statistics, which are actually interesting, but she clearly has no idea what to do when she becomes the statistic. This is the prime example of what happens when you study all the charts, and you see them all laid on in black and white, then try to actually claim them as your own life and look foolish. You know how many homeless people lived on the streets from `90-'95? Okay, good. They're going to shut your power off because you're late on the payments. What are you going to do with that statistic?"Ideally, at least if I were seeking to replicate the experience of a woman entering the workforce from welfare, I would have had a couple children in tow...In addition to being mobile and unencumbered, I am probably in a lot better health than most members of the long-term low-wage workforce. I had everything going for me."Wow. All that and a killer personality. You really do have everything. Way to go. You've successfully exploited and no doubt offended the people whose lives your book claims to showcase.In fairness, she is able to step outside of herself and note that "almost anyone could do what I did...In fact, millions of Americans do it everyday, with a lot less fanfare and dithering." Although, I can't help but feel like she decided to write a book about what it was like for her to be poor for a few months, instead of what it's like to actually be poor.All of the above quotes come from the first 10 pompous pages. I decided then that I did not care for this book, but made myself read until I couldn't take it anymore, which occurred on page 32. One of my favorite examples of her detachment is when she turns down a job that pays $7 an hour (in the mid-90s, mind you) because it "involves standing in one spot for eight hours a day."Here's another funny one: "About a third of a server's job is "side work" invisible to customers." I just think it's hilarious that she put the term "side work" in quotes like that, as if nobody had ever heard the term before.I am honestly offended by her ignorance of a subject she claims to have not only researched, but "lived". I know people who live this book. I live this book. I've never known anyone to turn down any job because they asked for a urine screen, unless they were going to undoubtedly fail. Actually, they'd take the test anyway, and cross their fingers. Not Barbara, though. It's beneath her. "If you want to stack Cheerios boxes or vacuum hotel rooms" she writes, "you have to be willing to squat down and pee in front of a health worker." This doesn't make any sense to her, stating that "$6 and a couple of dimes to start with are not enough, I decide, to compensate for this indignity."You know what's indignity? When they take your kids away because you can't feed them. That's indignity.I never made it to the second chapter, but the first few sentences of the opening paragraph are intriguing at the least:"I chose Maine for its whiteness." Very first words of the chapter. Believe me, it gets better: "This might not make Maine an ideal setting in which to hunker down for the long haul, but it made it the perfect place for a blue-eyed, English-speaking Caucasian to infiltrate the low-wage workforce, no questions asked."Caucasian? Who says that? This woman is very misguided. She did this "experiment" about ten years ago, but I think white people worked minimum wage jobs then, as they do now. Except in Maine, apparently.This is not a book about being poor. It is a book about a bored, middle-class woman who decides to go slumming, and she doesn't even follow her own rules that closely. She busts out her debit card when needed, she turns down jobs actual poor people would kill to have, and she does it all with the empathy and compassion of Adolf Hitler. There are people who think this book deserved its bestseller status. I'm not one of them. There are people who hail it as a classic, those who think that this woman has done the working-class a favor by writing this garbage. Those people are not working-class people. Those people are not my people.2 stars, simply because I had to keep reading in order to find out how she would insult me next.
2	1224547200	I had heard of this book for several years prior to finding it the thrift store. I'm very glad I didn't pay full price and I'm happy to see lots of cheap copies here so that you can read the book and get your curiosity satisfied.Basically a woman with a PhD sets out to see if and how she could earn a living and maintain herself with minimum wage jobs. Unfortunately, no matter what she did, she could never bypass the fact that she always had her 'real' life and bank account to fall back on. Unless you are truly in the position of having to make ends meet on minimum wage without any Plan B can you understand what it is like to live on minimum wage. I know as I have done it. It is possible to live on minimum wage, and actually enjoy your life. At the end of the month, she would pick up and head off to another part of the country and set herself up in another minimum wage job. Most people in these circumstance don't pull up stakes and move every month. They can't afford to. Moving is an expensive endeavor even for those with a 'normal' sized paycheck. She would complain in the book about not having adequate cooking facilities and so she was buying food at fast food joints on a daily basis instead of going to a grocery store and stocking up on items that could be used with an ice chest for refridgeration for sandwich supplies. Peanut butter and jelly are a whole lot cheaper and better for you than fried chicken every day. She even continued to smoke which of course was just burning up her money.Yes, it is extremely hard to live on minimum wage and even more so when the economy is in a nose dive like now, but it has always been hard for the very lowest of wage earners and always will be. But jumping into and out of jobs at will doesn't really give you an accurate view of these people's lives and that is where her experience and book failed.
5	1223510400	This book tells the reality for too many Americans, who don't qualify for the Bush/McCain tax cuts. Sad, and scary, reading.
5	1222732800	I originally read this book when it was first published!  I found it hard hitting, have quoted from it frequently and have recommended it to numerous indivduals.I feel her book does not go far enough, because; let us be honest, she knew she would "get out" of the circumstances. It was an experiment for her; and that kept her from sinking into despair.  Total desperation, and fear that her children would never have full tummies. This is the plight of the working poor everywhere in America.  To say it is not is to close ones eyes and live in ignorance.This book is best read without the snacks, without the liquid refreshment within arms reach.  Let your stomach be a little empty, so you can permit your body to feel the book as well.
5	1222646400	The most unsettling aspect of Barbara Ehrenreich's eye-opening foray into the world of the working poor is that the situation hasn't improved. In fact, it's gotten worse. The U.S. economy was booming in the late 1990s when she began her project, working anonymously in various minimum-wage jobs and reporting about the experience. Though she steps in and out of the lives of the minimum-wage workers who befriend her, she is a very powerful, effective advocate for them. In her book, she shows that living decently on about $7 an hour (still the minimum wage in most states) is impossible. However, Ehrenreich gives it a try in three cities, working as a waitress, housekeeper and Wal-Mart clerk. She reports from the front lines, where the working poor eat potato chips for dinner and sleep in fleabag motels, and she does the same. She finds that minimum-wage workers lead a dreary existence, toiling away in obscurity day after day with little hope, just getting by as long as they don't fall ill, need dental work or get in a car wreck. The terribly sad part is that many see no light at the end of the tunnel. getAbstract finds that Ehrenreich is a gifted writer with keen perceptions and a wry sense of humor. Her narrative flows effortlessly as she enlightens, educates and entertains. If only she had a magic wand.
4	1222128000	the book arrived in a timely manner and is in excellent condition as described. I will definitly buy again.
4	1221091200	I agree with most people who read this book in saying that Barbara only gave us a glimpse into the world of minimum wage and trying to *live* on it.  Skimmed the surface, so to speak.  Even though, I enjoyed the book and thought it was well put together.Was there a lot left out that should have been included, YES.  Did that make this a horrible book, NO.  But delving deeper would have made it a much better book and possibly more respected in the community.We get to see Barb take on 3 minimum wage jobs in 3 towns in the US.  Technically it was more jobs because most times she had to take a second job to live.  We get to meet her co-workers, but not very indepth.  She makes a strong case that I think we all know anyway, which is that it's impossible to live on minimum wage in this country and that often these jobs are the hardest working jobs you may ever hold...Overall I'd recommend it.  I'm sure there are some people, who like me, it might open your eyes a little wider and you might judge others less, or have more compassion/understanding for people in these situations.  We read it in my book group and I thought it provided EXCELLENT discussion!
1	1221004800	There are certainly many issues facing those who are trying to climb up from low paying and/or minimum wage jobs.  However, this author's attitude that all those in this position are helpless victims doomed to lifelong poverty is ridiculous!  As is the idea that anyone NOT mired in a tedious, low-paying job is somehow bad and to be blamed for those who are.  She identifies with the poor almost pathologically without fair consideration to all involved, including the employers.  And I found that very strange considering she is a well paid, successful writer living in a very high-rent area of this country (Key West, Florida) in her everyday life!She herself enjoys all the benefits of the upper middle class lifestyle, and more power to her for earning them, yet, she rails relentlessly about others in this position and blames them for the plight of the working poor.  When she works as a maid for a cleaning service, she comments about how insulted she is by one of the home-owners choice of books!  Huh?  She is angered that another home-owner has the audacity to own a set of copper pots and other home furnishings and decor that she finds disdainful as if these people are somehow at fault for being successful and having purchasing power, and heaven forbid, opinions and tastes that she does not share.  She makes it clear that she herself does not regularly employee domestic help as that would just be, well, disdainful, yet, she admits to having done so on certain justifiable occasions.  Really Barbara, you can't have it both ways!!When an immigrant dishwasher at a restaurant where she works is caught red-handed stealing from the storehouse, she immediately identifies with the thief and becomes defensive of him.  So stealing is OK if you're working for minimum wage?  Would she have been so protective of the thief if he'd stolen say HER laptop or HER car or HER food?  I wonder.And did anyone notice that on two different occasions, regarding two of her jobs, the author brought up the widely held (and grossly misguided) concept that employers "hold back" the new employees first week of pay?  As a human resources professional, I've battled this misconception amongst both white and blue collar employees for years and find it unfathomable that a person with a Ph.D. does not get it that the time she works this week is not actually paid for until the following pay period, usually the next week.  There is no "holding back" of any pay, merely a lapse in time in which payroll processing takes place and a check printed.  I found it incredible that this author did not grasp the logistics of this simple concept, and instead, clung to the ignorant idea that an employer would actually "hold back" pay until some such future date at their self-declared discretion, a practice that would be in fact, illegal.Where is the balance in this so-called reporting?  It's all and only about one side of the picture.  And where are the suggestions? solutions? ideas for a better system?  The concept of this book has great potential, but sadly, it falls flat and short of meeting it.
1	1220832000	Talk about making a mountain out of a mole hill. The number of positive reviews for this book is really truly suprising. I'll spare you my rant. Buy it on the cheap if you must read..either that, or I'll GIVE you my copy.
5	1220140800	Enjoying the book thus far.  Really gives practical information about what it is like to try to live on minimum wage.
5	1219881600	I have to admit, I grew up as person of privilege. I am from a large home in suburbia and drove a Mercedes SUV to high school every day. I was always taught to appreciate the things you have, and how lucky I am. Being born into wealth doesn't take talent, it takes luck. Even being born in the United States alone takes luck, you only had a 5% chance of being born here.This book reaffirmed my core belief that while hard work and brains can get you places, the effect of the starting hand your dealt cannot be denied. I have to admit I am pretty embarassed to read some of these reviews that blame the poor for their lot in life. Just because hard work can lead to success in this country, doesn't mean it happens 100% of the time.Here's a big lesson I learned: tip everyone. One dollar to you might mean almost nothing, but for the working poor it means a whole lot more. Treat employees with compassion and respect. A lot of the poor conditions Dr. Ehrenreich experiences is because people are too self-absorbed to think of others. For example, when she's working as a maid in Maine, dripping sweat and the woman whose house she is cleaning doesn't even offer a glass of water. Instead, she commands Dr. Ehrenreich to clean floors on her hands and knees.I did find the book to be a bit preachy at times, but really the overarching lessons here I think transcend politics. It's about human decency and compassion for your fellow man. Much of where you end up in life depends on the hand your dealt with from the start. The hand your dealt is all luck. Out of 6 billion people, why did I get to be born to wealthy parents in a great school district while another person of equal intelligence and integrity does not?Anyway, this book is a must read for people of privilege in my opinion because it forces you to take a step back, count your blessings, and become more generous to fellow men and women.
2	1219881600	The only reason I gave two stars to this book is because at least Ehrenreich tried to write about an important topic. But her execution falls well below the mark, and the book turns out to be more about a journalist pretending to be a low-income worker than about the lives of the low-income workers she's supposedly studying. It is, by turns, whiny, preachy, self-righteous, facile, and annoying -- much more often than it's insightful, which it is maybe a handful of times (if that) throughout the book. (The footnotes were actually among the most informative parts.) At times she even seems to be making fun of the workers with whom she briefly shared her life. And the "experiment" is flawed from the start, as the author herself more or less acknowledges, in that someone who knows that she can return to her real life any time is very different from someone who works for $7 an hour and has no choice. One also has to question the ethics of a decision to take a job that someone else really needs. Finally, as the book progresses, the author makes some bumbling attempts at humor that just aren't funny -- it feels like the writing of someone who thinks she's being clever but the jokes are flat or obvious, or someone who utters banalities as if they were profound insights. (Please, leave satire to the satirists.) One line in the book stood out for me as a reflection of everything that is wrong with it, and it was hard for me to keep reading after that. In the chapter on her experience in Maine, Ehrenreich asks the reader, "If you hump away at menial jobs 360-days-plus a year, does some kind of repetitive injury of the spirit set in?" Well, DUH. As my partner pointed out, that sounds like the kind of idiotic "wisdom" that might show up on Carrie Bradshaw's computer in "Sex in the City."So Ehrenreich gets some points for effort and for "humping away" at these jobs for as long as she did, I suppose, but as far as offering any real insights into or solutions for the lives of the working poor, this book leaves much to be desired. In the end, it's a book about Barbara Ehrenreich.
4	1219795200	Well, what Ms. Ehrenreich doesn't know is that there is MUCH MUCH worse to come!! In just a few years when the greatest depression in US history (13 years long) is visited upon us, surviving on the minimum wage will seem like the good old days. Sadly, people will be glad to work under the conditions she's explored. Everything is relative. Don't think it's going to happen? Read Arnold's The Great Bust Ahead ([...]).The Great Bust Ahead: The Greatest Depression in American and UK History is Just Several Short Years Away. This is your Concise Reference Guide to Understanding Why and How Best to Survive It.
4	1219622400	Another book explaining how we as a superpower are continuing to do a disservice to our own people. We can spend Billions on other countries to insure they have high-speed internet, but fight when it comes to guarnteeing medical for our children. It is not just that the system is not working... it is so far broken that it has been forgotten. How do we fix this? My grandma suggested an atmoic bomb, and although I thought this was ludicrious at first, I am begining to come around.
2	1219449600	I think the premise was a good idea as a whole, but I don't believe Barbara Ehrenreich was the one to present it.She tends to have a victim attitude in life, and a contempt for people who are successful, which I find ironic since I am sure she is not standing on a street corner giving away her profits from the book.She opens fine and the footnotes are somewhat interesting but then she goes off on tangents that have nothing to do with the book. She claims to have this disdain for others who she feels are elitists but then she turns around and does the same thing herself. One example, which has no place in this story, in my opinion is when she, as an avid atheist, decided to attend a revival for fun, then not only proceeded to mock the people who went but called Jesus a socialist among other things I would rather not repeat. My opinion of her formed very quickly from that point.She also points out that management in one of the companies she works for were simply jerks. Granted we all know the types but she didn't even try to see it from a balanced point of view. The Maid Company she worked for had some hard rules, like no water on the job, etc., which I found to be unreasonable, however she ended up blaming the homeowners, some that she never met. She had disdain for a Buddhists home who had spiritual messages throughout his house, once again she never met this person, yet felt free to judge.Also as far as management is concerned, as a business owner I realize how some people are in this position but there are also two sides to a coin. She mentions how much she dislikes the people she works for with the "rules" yet in the next breath she talks about her and the "maids" in the company car driving through a nice area with the radio blarring and yelling "F*** YOU" out the car window to moms with stollers. When they cringed she mentions how she finds this behavior hysterically funny. Gee and you wonder why they have to set up rules. I wouldn't want her representing my company.The book is not balanced. Last but not least, she claims so many of these people are in poverty, yet I can't help notice how many of them have no "lunch " money yet have plenty of funds for smoking and having kid after kid. Just an observation. It's too bad really the subject matter would have been good had it not been so tainted by attitude.I have no doubt there are a great deal of working poor who are making ends meet and having a hard time. Those are the people she should have sought out. I believe she was too blinded by her anger or perhaps guilt over her own success to see it clearly.
3	1219276800	I thought the concept of this book would be very interesting. However, the Author's delivery, not so much. I would have liked more details about her co-workers, friendships and follow ups on where are they now or simply more of a personal insite to the people. She was very "on the surface" with alot of descriptions. The Author was a bit arrogant by constantly reminding us about her eduation and background. I hope once she published this book that she gave something back to the hard working people that "helped" in her research. Or at least gave them a (free) copy of the book! The Author ends with some very strong and thought provoking points. All in all it's an ok book if you're not into details.
1	1218844800	I mean really now. Who sees any sort of humor at all in this book?I actually find the author's tone to be completely indignant and arrogant, she is ungracious, unkind, even cruel in her tone towards her "friends" and co-workers while she is playing poor.She even goes so far as to compare her plight to that of a princess being punished by being forced to hand feed all her subjects... this lady is a real piece of work. She is absolutely deplorable and such a snobbish, egotistical (well a not so very nice person)!  Her "insights" and her surprising realizations scare me, I mean if real people actually find shock and awe at the same everyday DUH she makes a big fuss over, then this country is way past salvageable!!!She is a career essayist who lowers herself to play poor for a little while, and tries to maintain a decent quality of life while getting by on minimum wage,  something which is definitely not her area of expertise. She describes looking for places to live, jobs, working conditions and overall environments of the places she goes.She alienated, humiliated, and demeaned almost everyone she met, though not in any sort of dialog to their face, just her thoughts about them...This is definitely a must read, but not for the reasons by which I kept being mislead. For people like myself, this is at times hard to read, however it is definitely a book you will not soon forget, and definitely an author you will not soon forget either.
3	1218844800	You ever have one of those crazy bosses?She would blast ecological sounds so loudly we had to ask her to turn it down (our jobs included listening to actors read lines). Another time, she called in sick because she was "wafting vapors." She always brought up her education in conversation.  She never seemed to actually do any work, but instead worked on her novel, using company resources to write it.  And she was strangely preoccupied with "ganja" to the point that she used it as her password, a fact she was only too happy to share. "Wafting vapors" indeed.After I finished reading Nickel and Dimed, I was convinced Ehrenreich was my former boss. A highly-educated journalist with an arch tone, she blesses us all with her insights by going undercover as a poor person and trying to get by.  Which is a bit like the scene from Aladdin when the princess slips out into the real world.You see, Ehrenreich wants to help people.  She really does, and she views things in a sort of black and white, my way or the highway sort of charitable aggressiveness.  She's an ideological bully, the kind that is impossible to argue with because she cloaks herself with the cause of the underdog.And that's a shame, because Ehrenreich's absolutely right in what she uncovers: that the poor can't get by on minimum wage salaries in the year 2000. The only way to survive is to have a partner, she concludes, but with that comes the baggage of living with another person, possibly children, and all that entails.  And yet, Ehrenreich's experiment lacks precisely that - when she is given the opportunity o move in with a friend, she turns it down.Ehrenreich isn't a poor person.  In fact, she is so NOT poor that she secretly feels she should be treated differently because she's better educated, or because she's a journalist, or because she's trying to help people when clearly bosses are greedy and poor people are too weak to fend for themselves.In my first job, I worked in a factory.  I've come a long way from that factory job, but it taught me a lot as a high school student.  And what's missing most from Ehrenreich's tour in Poor People Land is that these people aren't characters in her book; they're real people.  Ehrenreich never seems to detach herself from her upbringing, although she would have us believe otherwise.  The signs, if you read carefully, are there.The one that really turned me off was the fact that Ehrenreich, due to an "indiscretion," smokes pot when she knows she'll be going on job interviews.  Now either Ehrenreich didn't know job interviews required drug testing, which speaks poorly to her journalistic abilities, or she has a fondness for pot she fails to disclose as part of who she is.  From there it's railing against the system of drug testing, a charge that becomes shrill when she beats the test and sees that as further evidence that drug testing is dumb. There are lots of hard working poor folks who aren't smoking pot before job interviews, and Ehrenreich isn't doing the underrepresented poor any favors by succumbing to the stereotype.The other hypocrisy is that Ehrenreich bristles at psychological tests.  I agree with her, I hated those tests too.  She objects to the tone of the questions and their underlying agenda, but the back of the book contains a "reader's guide" that asks such loaded questions as, "have you ever been homeless, unemployed, without health insurance, or held down two jobs?  What is the lowest-paying job you ever held and what kind of help--if any--did you need to improve your situation?" The lack of self-awareness rife throughout the book is breathtaking.The final indignity is when Ehrenreich, the educated white woman who knows better, decides on a lark to start a union at Wal-Mart.  Heedless of what the consequences might be, she just skips right out of that final job into her conclusions.  Never mind that Ehrenreich was intentionally rabble-rousing workers who, if they had decided to try to form a union, could have all lost their jobs.  And where would that leave them, while Ehrenreich went back to her comfortable house?But if you can look past that, and I'm sure a lot of people can't, the book's messages are sound.  The end result of a capitalist system in America is ultimately hostile to itself.  The rich need the poor to work as cheaply and inexpensively as possible, and this form of human labor market ultimately degrades the bottom ranks until they rebel. Ehrenreich doesn't have any answers as to why the poor haven't rebelled already and instead concludes with navel-gazing reader's guide.Nickel and Dimed should be required reading for CEOs everywhere who are often responsible for the fates of thousands of peoples' livelihoods.  I just wish Ehrenreich hadn't written it.
5	1218499200	"At the end of the dayYou're another day olderThat's all you can say of the life of the poor."Welcome to Bush- and,shortly. post-Bush America, when more than 30% of Americans will be unable to find work that carries them beyond one's day's meals.A must read.
5	1217203200	I was curious about this book after hearing Ms. Ehrenreich interviewed on radio.  She took a sabbatical from her reporting career and spent three months or more to see if she could live on minimum-wage employment.First she describes how she lived in Key West trailer park, Florida, waitressing in a pancake house.  She then moved to Maine, working in a nursing home as well as with a franchised cleaning service.  For her third experience, she moved to Minneapolis to work at Wal-Mart.The result was three failed attempts to live on hourly wages, but great insight on what many dismiss as the "working poor".  That category leaves out a word; it should be "working poor people".  Ehrenreich's book takes you into some of those lives.  It is a must read, and a short book, so you might want to read it twice.
5	1217116800	I heard about this book through my reading teacher and a student a few months ago. Out of curiosity I decided to buy the book.I really enjoyed it. I loved how it was written in a diary format and how the author was so real and blunt about everyone and everything she came in contact with.Hopefully this book will wake up the country.
5	1216684800	It is rare that a book would get me riled up as *Nickel and Dimed* did.  I truly appreciated Ehrenreich's honesty about certain things before initiating her undercover investigation on whether people on minimum wage could survive on life (basic necessities).Ehrenreich, well-educated, goes undercover by working various minimum wage jobs just to see if her meager salaries could carry her through life.  She worked as a waitress, a maid and an "associate" at Wal-Mart, among other jobs.Granted, her parameters or criteria did not accurately reflect those of the working class.  First, she came into this research with some money, which she was able to afford uniforms, secure a temporary home and get some food.  In addition, she had a laptop.  Lastly, she went alone, without a family.  I truly believe that her struggles/reports would be drastically different if she had no start-up money for these "luxuries".However, the meat and potatoes of her research are the employers and their practices in employment, business and benefits/wages.  I've once worked in the food & beverage industry and it's a tough place to work.  However, the working conditions that she experienced as a waitress are appalling.  Don't get me started with Molly Maid.  I was literally this close to calling the company and giving them a piece of my mind.  I certainly hoped that this book helped launched an investigation into the company.  And Wal-Mart already had a bad reputation prior to my reading this book.  After reading Ehrenreich's accounts, Wal-Mart is just the worst in terms of employment.Anyways, the whole point of this research is to see if the working class are "too lazy" to "move on up to the East Side" (if you like The Jeffersons, you should have caught that phrase of the theme song).  It turns out that it's not so simple.  The working class are out there and pounding the road for a better life by getting a better job that can cover basic necessities, along with adequate benefits.  They're also out there looking for suitable and affordable homes for their families.  However, they faced obstacles by their employers' lack of provisions, shady practices (including drug testings) and hourly pays.  In addition, they're not getting adequate services for housing or food assistance.  They are literally forced to stay within that economic class.I found Ehrenreich's book to be informative even if it riled me up.  *Nickel and Dimed* helped raised an enhanced consciousness of those trying to live the American dream, just like everyone else.
5	1215302400	I loved it. It was a page turner. It was a nice balance of serious ... very serious stuff about working lives of the full-time, barely-making-it workers ... mixed in with Ehrenreich's sense of humor. Oh, and it brought back memories  of all those jobs (I've had a million of `em!) that paid terribly and humiliated you at least 8 times a day. Highly recommended.
5	1215302400	This was me!  For those who reviewed the book and said that Ehrenreich was "unrealistic", I'm going to share my story.  Several years ago my ex-boyfriend and I could have been in the book; we were each working a full-time job and he also had TWO part-time jobs at the same time (one after his full-time job and another on the weekends).  Our jobs were in electronic sales at a big chain store and telemarketing which at the time paid $7.50 an hour.  Yet we were still unable to make ends meet.  After rent on our shoebox-efficieny apartment and utility bills, quarters for laundry and bus fare (we couldn't even afford a car!  And even if we could have, we would not have been able to afford insurance AND gas.), we had hardly any money leftover for groceries and certainly NO money leftover for luxuries such as new clothes and new shoes (we did shop at thrift stores, but only when we really needed more outfits).  After we ran out of selling our CDs, books, and magazines, which we sold for bus fare to be able to get to and from jobs, we resorted to selling plasma which paid $20 at the time and was enough for two weeks worth of groceries.  Everything else that we owned, a mattress on the floor, linen, and kitchen supplies (which we deemed were the necessities) had all been purchased at a Goodwill also with the help of a friend of mine who worked there and used his employee discount for us.I'm sure people would have thought my ex-boyfriend and I were lazy and "slackers" but we were working so HARD and pinching pennies and we couldn't understand why we still couldn't afford a nicer apartment, a car, decent clothes and to eat well.  I shudder to think how much more of a hell our lives would have been if we had had children to boot!Unfortunately the strain of our financial situation did our relatonship in.  He moved back in with his single mother and I moved back in with my grandparents as we went our seperate ways.  Sadly, living with my grandparents rent-free didn't really make my life easier.  I was still working a minimum wage job and trying to save money while also helping them with expenses.  Then the worst thing happened, I got another job in telemarketing and lost my voice completely two weeks into training which was followed by strep throat; this latest for a month! Needless to say I lost my job because I couldn't even make it through training.  Of course I had no health insurance either.  I realized there was no way I could ever afford a car to get a better job off the bus route or to move out into my own apartment anytime soon.  Finally, I made the desperate decison to enlist in the Army.My life is completely different now that I am out of the Army and a civilian again.  From the Army I gained skills and knowledge in a specific field which are marketable and thanks to the Army College Fund and Montgomery G.I. Bill I am currently enrolled in a graduate program.  Finanically I am better off now then I ever was in my life, but I never forget for a minute that I can end up again where I was before the Army, (selling plasma for food)...even with a Master's degree.  Unfortunately there are countless reasons why some people would not be able to make the same decisions to join the military.  For many people that is not an option.  So where does that leave them?I LOVE this book because I think it IS realistic and dead-on and I should know, I have lived it!
5	1214697600	Gave the book as a gift...didn't read it but the reviews on it are great. I'm reviewing the bookseller. The book was here very quickly in excellent condition.
2	1214438400	I was expecting this book to make us 'understand' ,not 'know', what it is like to be in a low wage job and more or less at the bottom of the economic chain. This book left a lot to be desired. The author never really 'lets go' and immerse herself in her situation. Rather, she stays high up on her perch, and passes judgment on everything that moves. How do we interpret her musings and thoughts and humor? Was it just to alleviate her pain arising from a situation (she makes fun of the 'rich' folks who employ 'poor' house-maids. While the humor was nice to read, what was she trying to convey in the page after page of sarcastic comments about the boss of the maid service? Wasn't he a product of the economic system as well?)What I was looking forward to was someone who stood back and simply 'described', with the astute observational-eye of a Somerset Maugham or an R.K.Narayan - and let the reader interpret and judge. Instead the author fills the book with pages and pages of sarcasm and humor poked at someone or the other - management, the hotel owner (she even goes to describe problems with an East Indian marriage system !), the rich and even at the English language in Walmart's video material! The author behaves like a 'tourist' having a trip on her expensive car through 'poor town' and thinking that she is experiencing poverty. Poverty is more of a state of mind - of how the mind, in desperation, breaks down and accepts its surroundings without question. For some reason, the author simply finds this hard to understand and keeps questioning 'why the employees at Walmart don't form a union'.Go ahead and the read the book - I do commend the author's courage in leaving her safe surroundings and living in poor conditions. But do not get swept away by the glowing reviews on the cover - they are by affluent reviewers who just want a vicarious peek at poverty.
1	1213660800	This book was required summer reading before my freshman year at the University of Missouri. I was appalled to find after the first chapter or so a political undertone of liberals masquerading as journalists yet again.Now I am a middle of the road individual, but my biggest pet peeve is when people are NOT UPFRONT with there intentions. It was the most hypocritical book I have ever read.She does her best to point out how hard it is to get by on minimum wage with minimal education. She stays in these personas long enough to learn about her coworkers and show us how hopeless it is. Our lives are what we make of them not our jobs or money-I certainly hope I can not be reduced to a $ sign. Maybe if she lays off the drugs long enough she will stop blaming society for our problems and realize that it boils down to individual responsibility.
4	1213401600	Author Barbara Ehrenreich spends a year as an experiment living on minimum wage and writing about it as a journalist.  The book chronicles her year working in 3 states (Florida, Maine, and Minnesota) as, among other things, a waitress, maid, and Walmart employee.  From the beginning she makes two caveats:  that she has her own car (many minimum wage workers don't) and she won't go hungry (e.g. she will dip into her ATM before she will starve).I thoughourly enjoyed this book.  It was fascinating to see, fully see, another side of life that I thought I knew but really didn't.  These people work hard, very hard, are good people, honest people and watch out for each other as best they can with what little they have.Every dollar counts.  I remember the Merry Maid who ate hot dog rolls brought from home for lunch because not only did she have no money, but no time since the work schedule was so tight.  Decent housing is nearly impossible to find.  All this and the author didn't even have to worry about chilcare costs.  Everyone on minimum wage has to work at least two jobs to survive at even a subsistence level and live with friends, relatives, share a couch, a trailer.  It's bad.This book has changed my outlook toward minimum wage workers, made me a better tipper, and a much kinder and more thoughtful customer.  I recommend it to anyone just as an aid to your humanity.
4	1212537600	In my spare time, I enjoy reading about American problems and issues not directly known to the general audience.  I found myself reading Nickel and Dimed, an intriguing story about an adventurous journalist going undercover, into the minimum wage world.  Ehrenreich explores the working life of a maid, housekeeper, waitress, and Wal-Mart associate.  Barbara shows how even in the best case scenario of being childless and healthy can create many obstacles and challenges.  The main idea of this book is that every job requires a skill, no matter how low the wages are.  Regardless of your specific field of work, you will be sure to encounter unreasonable management, difficult physical and mental labor, as well as pushy consumers or costumers.  The bottom line is that rent and transportation is too expensive and minimum wage jobs simply will not support a person in the long run.
4	1212364800	While Nickel and Dimed is not exactly the kind of book I can say that I enjoyed, it's definitely the kind of book I find informative and consciousness-raising. As a consequence of reading it, I will never see a Wal-Mart employee, hotel maid, house cleaner, or restaurant server in the same light as before. Ehrenreich's clear, direct writing pulls no punches as she gives the reader a realistic view of her under cover experiences working in a variety of minimum wage jobs.Ehrenreich, who has a Ph.D. in biology, approached her year of trying to live as a minimum wage employee the way that a scientist would. She even set up certain rules, two of which were that she would not fall back on any of her skills derived from education and that she would take the highest-paying job offered to her and do her best to hold it. By the way, the fact that she mentions her Ph.D. on more than one occasion evidently bothers some other reviewers and readers, but to me it added more credibility to her work. She not only had the credentials to carry out the research, but she actually did so. Another point that Ehrenreich makes is that regardless of education or intellect, there's still a learning curve for every job. Many times she felt inadequate, overwhelmed, and even disappointed in her ability (or inability) to do a job.There are far too many situations that Ehrenreich described to enumerate them all, so I'll just mention a couple. Living conditions were horrendous for her (once there was sewage backed up and all over her floor), and yet many of her co-workers lived in cars, motel rooms, and flophouses. All of her jobs were eye-opening, but her stint as a maid in Maine was the most enlightening. One of my favorite passages in the book is when the owner of a million-dollar condo takes her into the bathroom and asks her to scrub the grout extra hard since the marble walls have been "bleeding" onto the brass fixtures. Ehrenreich restrains herself from telling the owner that it's the world-wide working class that's been bleeding as they quarried the marble, wove the Persian rugs until they went blind, smelted the steel for the nails, etc. I hope and pray (really) that conditions for Wal-Mart employees have improved since Ehrenreich's time there in 1998.Read this book if you dare. I can guarantee that you'll never take your Chili's lunch, your automobile, your air conditioned home, your career, the nicely stocked shelves at Wal-Mart, or the fluffy towels in your hotel room for granted again.
4	1212192000	Typically I'm skeptical of broad extrapolations based on anecdotal evidence, but Ehrenreich made that technique work in this book by supporting her observations with well-done research often dropped in as footnotes.  The sense of desperation of the working poor is palpable. This book makes a statement about increasing class disparity in the US which is truly shameful.
4	1211932800	I found Nickel and Dimed to be a good book.  I read it for my ESL class and it helped me to improve my vocaburaly even though it was so hard at the beginning.  It was amazing to realize how some Americans being Americans - as Barbara said in Nickel and Dimed - being white, English speakers, struggle in their own land with an unreasonable economic system.  Barbara shows very well how poor workers are unable to live with their wages.  The working class experience incredible and some times inhuman circumstances just to survive. Nickel and Dimed shows some of the terrible working conditions, and the result of them in most of those workers.  It shows also how the same system is designed - in my opinion - not to help and assist these people.
3	1211673600	My attitude about the book named "Nickel and Dimed" is that I think it is normal thing for me about how low wage-workers survive in their lives. They have to survive in the terrible situation because they have no choice. Poor people have to live in the car or small shelters incase they don't have their own house. They have to be insulted by many rich people. They are afraid to be fired because it is very difficult to find jobs. This information is not new for me. I think the strong part of this book is about the vocabulary. I can see how I improve my reading after reading this book. Because it is so difficult sentence and have a lot of vocabulary compared with other books. In the fact that I am an International student, it is difficult for me, but I think for American people, this book is very good. Barbara's sentences and detail can picture readers and express how she felt when she worked as the low-wage worker. I tell honestly that at the first time I buy this book, I think after I finish my study, I will ell it. Now I already change my mine. I want to keep this book and reread many time until I already master at reading. I string believe that this book can improve my reading. I am happy that my teacher uses this book for reading class. Thanks to my teacher, Heather. I can understand what you want from us.
3	1211241600	This is a well-written, interesting, anecdotal book about a well-educated woman's sojourn among the working poor. If only the author had stopped there, the book still would have been a hit. Instead, the author chose to claim it to be representative undercover reportage. Unfortunately, she does not do this with any objectivity, as she views all that she does through liberal, rose colored glasses. Nor does she live as the truly working poor do, as her existence is isolated, cut off from all support systems. While the author received raves from the New York Times Book Review, which acclaimed the author as "...the premier reporter of the underside of capitalism", the reader should remember that the New York Times is the bastion of East Coast liberalism, and take such praise with a grain of salt.The author comes across as a somewhat vapid individual, whose inherent biases and expectations prevent her from being able to live as a true member of the working poor or interact with them on a truly human level. She objects to having to take drug tests in order to secure a minimum wage position, stating that the costs of such a test outweigh the benefits, without any clear understanding, other than the cost of the drug test itself, of what the potential costs of employing substance abusers would be. She authoritatively uses statistics willy-nilly without grounding them in an appropriate context. The author does, however, establish one very important key point that would certainly tend to keep the working poor running in place, and that has to do with the cost of housing. The book leaves little doubt that there needs to be more affordable housing for the working poor. Yet, the author offers no suggestions as to how that would best be accomplished.Moreover, the author, during her work as a cleaner for a cleaning service company, seems to have a lot of negative things to say about people who have had some demonstrable achievements in life. The author seems to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is. Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just those of bad management by those in positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.
1	1210204800	Rarely do I ever read something that I actually end up hating after one chapter. However, this book was one of the few that does not get a good review from me. I found almost everything about the way this book was written to be absolutely frustrating and downright annoying. The way the information is presented does not fit the content and the author herself came across as conceited and arrogant. There were also parts of this book that were just completely irrelevant to the content and had I been Ms. Ehrenreich's editor I would have had them removed because they detracted from the actual content.The idea of this experiment, for a lack of a better word, is a novel one and I admire her for actually going through with it. Nevertheless, when she compiled this book far too many parts of it completely bothered the reader. She makes references to her college level education and her PhD as if these things actually matter when working a minimum wage job.For the sake of keeping this short all I can say is that I was sorely disappointed in this book, as was the rest of my Modern U.S. History class. It could have been a lot better.
2	1209945600	This was an enjoyable book to read.  Simple and to the point.  Barbara really got down into the trenches with America's low paid employees.She experienced their everyday routines and the headache of stretching their incomes, and gives some insight into the rules and personalities of their boss's attitudes.
2	1209600000	One reason I am uncomfortable with some people in the publishing industry is that I am from a different class than they are.  And I don't mean that the way people might think.Only somebody very self-satisfied with her own status, socially, intellectually and economically, would have written this book in the manner it is written.  Many readers, particularly the tens of thousands of college sociology or first-year English students to whom the book is assigned, won't get how ironic and insulting the introduction is (if they read it).  There's simply no way to make one of these insider publisher lunches sound like anything other than what it is, a greedy conversation about ego and money.  The project, and the book, begins with an arrogant and condescending scheme made to sound somehow "brave" or "noble" -- but only in the eyes of somebody who'd consider working at WalMart, as a waitress at Dennys, or as a cleaning person to be a terrifying prospect.  Think about that -- somebody does have to work at WalMart.  We can't eat at Dennys if nobody waits tables there.  People are willing to pay to have their houses cleaned and it is work that many have done over the years to support themselves and their families.Bottom line, this author is far too self-satisfied, and has the typical successful "author's ego," to write an effective book about real people who are struggling to get by.  It doesn't matter what she says.  This book was meant to espouse a political philosophy, and it was meant to embarrass major corporations or even small employers who treat and pay their employees poorly.  In the process it made all of the people covered into ciphers - often she didn't even bother to mention the people's names and seldom got into too many details about her co-workers.  It's unwise to humanize people, I guess - but I know better.I am a writer.  It's clear that this author can't humanize the people who truly work at these low-wage jobs, because it isn't in her.  To this author, "ideas" and "political convictions" are more important than people.And that is the value discussion here.  Students are largely taught that political decisions will solve people's problems.  They are told to read this book, despite the fact that the author can barely be bothered to name many of her co-workers, and as the book goes on, is less- and less- interested in them than in documenting the little slights she endured along the way, and minor hardships (pee in a cup, take stupid test, get treated like you might steal the merchandise, hurt feet, walking to/from work - IMAGINE THAT!).A better book for students to read to make them think about values, culture, and materialism is Into the Wild, by Jon Krakauer.  That story, by a writer of infinitely more insight, talent and empathy, telling about the amazing journey and thoughts of Christopher McCandless, will give a different view of the world.This is the basic circumstance:  When people give up control of their minds and lives to any ideology, they lose the most precious things they have: their individuality and right to self-determination.  It is not that WalMart (Dennys, Merry Maids, etc.) are, or are not evil and must be shut down and combated.  If you truly think your life-purpose is best-served by ranting against any big corporation, or if you think "political philosophy" takes the place of experiencing life, then what have you learned?  In which world can you name any activity where you appreciate and have benefited from any outside organization (government, employer) telling you what to do and how to do it?  At best, there are things where we all know we need to follow the same rules if we want to participate.I think this book is actively harmful to people working at lower-wage jobs.  I think it dehumanizes them and uses them as pawns.  The complaints of the author about her own issues such as peeing in a cup or having an insensitive boss who didn't care whether she was at work or not, are so trivial compared to -- victims of crime, victims of sexual harassment, the laid-off, the injured-on-the-job, and so-on.But that's the thing, isn't it?  That is a value system.  Where every individual person is dehumanized except the powerful person trying to tell others' what to say, think or so.Think for yourself.  Don't take your "wisdom" from an arrogant semi-intellectual who couldn't even spend 3 weeks on any one of these jobs before quitting.
4	1209254400	I think that this book is a must reead for those who are trying figure out if they should go to college or not. It give a very good picture of how it really is when you do not have higher education.
2	1208217600	Barbara Ehrenreich took on the ambitious task of going undercover as a low-wage worker.  She wrote this book to explain how people who work for minimum wage get by in America.  However, I found this book to be unrealistic, anecdotal, and pessimistic.Barbara Ehrenreich is an acclaimed writer for her books and articles in magazines such as Time and The New Republic.  She got the idea for this book during lunch with her editor.  They were wondering how people could live on minimum wage, and they decided that going undercover would be a good way to answer the question.The first job that Barbara took on was as a waitress in Florida.  She received just $2.43 an hour plus tips, and she found it very hard to live.  She took on two jobs for a short period of time, but she had to drop one because it was extremely physically taxing.  She got overwhelmed with keeping up rent, and one day, she got up and left for Maine.  In Maine, she worked as a housekeeper on weekdays and at a nursing home during the weekends.  The housing situation was probably the best here, but she had to work hard to make a living.  As a housekeeper, she was constantly in pain and undergoing strenuous work.  One woman who was pregnant and had a broken ankle had to continue working so she could have a roof over her head.  The management in Maine disgusted Barbara.  Barbara also worked at Wal-Mart in Minnesota, and she found the working conditions to be very poor.  The housing situation was very difficult in the region, and Barbara quit when she couldn't find an apartment.This book really helped me to value the importance of education and acknowledged the problems with low-wage jobs.  On the other hand, I do not think that the author accomplished the initial point of her book.  Barbara used a lot of sarcasm and had a pessimistic tone often in the book.  She focused more on the poor quality of her jobs, rather than the economic aspects and how she financially made a living.  Her tone can be taken as offensive in some parts of the book, especially when she made references to religion and abortion, which are both sensitive topics to many.  Overall, the book was a good idea, and had a good message, but the tone in which it was written was not satisfactory.
4	1207958400	This book has a very promising premise, one that many middle- or upper-class people living in the United States never examine: what life is like for those trying to survive on minimum-wage salaries.  The author travels from city to city, going through the process of trying to put down roots, and dealing with the difficulty in starting a new life, wrestling especially with the question of how to get a job without a permanent address, and how to find affordable housing when she doesn't yet have a paycheck.Quickly the author learns that it is nearly impossible for her to survive anywhere on a single job, yet she also finds out that she simply doesn't have the necessary stamina to work more than one job at a time.  It is furthermore a nightmare of scheduling to try to find two jobs that don't overlap their hours.I found this book maddening; I was infuriated at the fact that those working the jobs alongside the author couldn't seem to get ahead, and the ways in which they were taken advantage of by their employers, as in the withholding of a first paycheck from the employees who desperately needed that money for rent or food.The other maddening part of this book was the fact that there didn't seem to be any solution to this problem of poverty.  I was left with an overwhelming feeling of helplessness on finishing this book, horrified at the thought that so many people are living in such dire circumstances, one step away from homelessness and hunger.Although the author is up-front about the fact that her experience won't be truly authentic, in that she has financial and social resources to fall back on in her real life, I was put off by the fact that she would smoke marijuana shortly before applying for jobs she should have known would require a drug test.  With all of the other comforts she was willing to give up for her story, it seems like she would have refrained from this behavior that had the potential to completely sabotage her experiment.Overall, this book gave me a great deal to think about, and made me appreciate my relative financial security all the more.
4	1207180800	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America is one of the best books I have read in a long time.  It is very eloquently written and is easy to become enthralled with.  Personally, I am hard to please in the world of published literature but when I sat down to read this book, I found myself not wanting to stop.  The way Ehrenreich conveys the world of minimum wage really gives the reader a good understanding of their lives.  When reading, it is inevitable that one is overcome with a feeling of intense empathy for the characters of the book.  Not only is this book interesting to read but, it is full of information that is relevant in today's society, especially with the economic crisis.  After reading this book, I find it hard to go to a resturaunt or hotel without thinking about the strenuous labor that the hundreds of workers put in to make many of our middle to upper class lives an ounce better.  Ehrenreich's brave step into what seems like another world was a step that needed to be taken.  From her hardships and experiences we can learn a lot.  Everyone could benefit from reading this book.  I give it 4 stars.
4	1207094400	Ehrenreich paints a decidedly unique picture of minimum wage living, and through such an angle, she really expresses this situation well. She didn't simply analyze existing statistics; Ehrenreich went out and actually experienced what it is like to be a waitress, maid, Wal-Mart employee, and "dietary aid," as the job is so affectionately known. However, she does this with the eye of a PhD and the political mindset of a decidedly non-mainstream person. As I read, I constantly found myself more interested in the life of the author than the one she was temporary living. That aside, once one reads this book, one will never think about minimum-wage work and the struggles that accompany it in the same light again. Ehrenreich shatters the common philosophy held between the more afluent that people on minimum-wage are lazy and are only poor because they lack work ethic. From what she says in her book, this could not be more incorrect. Often, it is the poor that are forced to work the longest hours, in the most unwanted, demeaning occupations. Furthermore, it is not work ethic that does them in, it is our society's need to serve the upper and middle classes that lowers wages and benefits and increases workload.This inability to excell in a world ruled by the rich is a constant thorughout all of her jobs, regardless of place. In Key West, for example, Ehrenreich manages to live in a trailer, however her co-diner-employees are forced into long-term, crampt motel rooms, their own cars, and communative living. From this, she brings up another difficulty encountered by the poor: it is near impossible to save up enough money to provide for a deposit and first month's rent, so many are only able to barely afford "pay-as-you-go" housing. A similar idea also comes up when Ehrenreich goes to be a maid in Maine. When she learns that other maid services pay more, she asks her coworkers why they don't switch, and she finds that they cannot afford to switch jobs, because the work or so without pay is an impossibility on current salaries. Overall, this book can teach one a lot about how much we take for granted our comfortable jobs and live our lives as if it is all this easy.
1	1206316800	I can't believe I read through the entire book. the only consolation was that I filled the sidebars with angry comments. the whole tone of this book was bitter and angry. SHE was angry to be poor not her workmates. THEY were rather happy with life and full of hope looking towards a better future. Those of you who read it and bought into it, I advise you to read it again. pay attention to the tone of the book. Observe who the author is, and what her outlook in life is like. then, imagine youself in the situation of these people she writes about. than think to yourself if you would be as angry as she is. I am sure you wouldn't if you are well adjusted.The whole book was a sream of ranting and raving: I just love the way she compares a husband to a dog at one point, and the way she talks about pubic hair in the shower. a real OPTIMIST I gotta say.
5	1205280000	This book is fantastic! I was required to read it for a Sociology class and I am really happy that the Professor picked this one. I hope that more people will read this book so they can start looking closer at the invisible side of the service industry. I would love to have this be required reading in high schools so teenagers could learn about this before they go out into the world.
4	1205020800	This book opened my eyes to how people really try to live! I look at workers in so called low paying jobs, quite differently. I see them.
5	1204416000	First, for those reviewers who accuse Ehrenreich, the author, of being a commie, or a socialist, or any other familiar devil term, they either haven't read the book or have no understanding of the US and the principles for which we stand. Many stalwarts of the left have acknowledged that we are probably the freest country ever, to paraphrase one. And I have argued, to the chagrin of some, that we are far more "populist" than most any other country. In that populist tradition, Ehrenreich wrote this valuable volume.For the one who commented on the author's admitted drug use, well, that's a non-issue.And, as to those who accuse Ehrenreich of arrogance, you may be showing more of your own colors than hers. Have you been able to examine the plight of the working poor? Could you express it as eloquently as she did?I listened to a recorded version of this classic. The jury's still out as to my view of that "new" medium. But it certainly gives me time to "read" something for which I might not otherwise have time.Others have stated the book's premises: The author is a journalist with a Ph.D. in biology. She has a noted reputation among the educated. She talked with the editor of Harper's about investigating that plight to which I referred, and he suggested she "join them."Ehrenreich starts with her explanation of her set of rules. She'd calculated how much she needed to live, and for what little she'd be willing to settle for in terms of wage.She started as a waitress in some restaurants near where she lived. Among the first things that astonished her--something about with I' ve been expressing concern since it hit--was the cost of housing relative to what her fellow waitresses were making. Some lived in their cars, others were able to barely survive by sharing a place with a boyfriend or other family member.Another issue she raised was hierarchy: what purpose do some of the "managers" serve except to harass the employees? (Where I used to work, a place I left in good terms which I still share with colleagues and managers, I wondered, "How many managers does it take to change a light bulb?") We somehow assume that such a hierarchy needs to exist to ensure that work is done. Ehrenreich concludes that that's not true.She also worked at a nursing home. She had some heart warming stories about demented seniors and their dubious survival.She proceeded to Maine where she worked for a maid's service--which charged customers $25 an hour while paying the maids $6.65 an hour. She was flabbergasted at how some of their customers had cameras available to them to ensure that the maids weren't stealing anything and that they were "doing their job" (for barely a quarter of what the maid service was charging the customer!) And in the case of one of the service's customers, a rather buxom woman who lived in a suburban Portland mansion barely fit under a desk to make sure that the maids got every single speck of dust!Then Ehrenreich went to Minnesota, for reasons she wasn't able to discern, and "interviewed" for jobs at a hardware establishment and at Wal-Mart. She chose to work for the latter as the former's 11 hour shifts she wouldn't put up with. But, what with the extremely limited housing market in Minnesota, that gave her several other subjects to cover, including economic statistics, of dubious credibility, and housing availability and prices. Her descriptions of where she had to live were some of the wittiest portions of the text.My appreciation for the author's eloquence is immense. Again, some accuse her of being arrogant. Well, she was in a position to investigate the conditions in which she reports. Should Nelly Bly not have reported on the asylums of yesteryear because she was demonstrably NOT insane? Ehrenreich had a great deal of sympathy with her co-workers, to few of whom she admitted her real role, that of an investigative author. And she asked, "Why did they put up with it?" She concluded that not only did other jobs in the area not really pay much, if any, more. But many of them had transportation problems: How do you get to work 40 minutes away if you don't have a car?There were other issues in the employment process, especially drug tests and employment "tests." We are NOT unwilling to succumb to these foolish drug tests while there is no evidence that they do any good? (She refers to one in which the government spent literally $70,000 per testee!) And, something she doesn't even mention, they're hopelessly inaccurate. She does mention that heroin and cocaine leave your system in a few days while marijuana, the least threating of the substances, can remain in your system for weeks. And there's no test for alcohol. I took a personality test a number of years ago to which, I admitted to the manager (who hired me) that most of my honest answers would have been "that depends." And "Skeptical Inquirer" had an article a few years ago which described that these tests haven't even been created by social scientists. They're at best a means of "management" establishing itself as of a higher caste.Oh, and she does cover the issue of health insurance: none of the jobs had that benefit. So many of her colleagues had to grin and bear it through a number of health threats. For that fact, we Americans should be collectively ashamed of ourselves.It's hard for me to express greater appreciation for this book. It may bust some American mythology, particularly that if you work hard enough you can make it here. (Not if you're paying 3/4 of your income for a dump to live in!) She summarizes the book with fact that the many--MILLIONS!--of working poor are making enormous sacrifices so that the rest of us can  be "comfortable." I repeat MILLIONS. This isn't a minor problem. And the economic statistics to which she refers are dated. They've become substantially worse. (Housing prices are only one!)I've wanted to read this book for years and finally got around to it. There's so, so much more I could say about it, but read it yourself. I truly believe it should be required reading in every high school and every college. It's NOT an ideological issue, but a very real issue of which too many of are sadly unaware. Read it and weep.
5	1203984000	If you are interested in reading someone who 'walked the walk' in Sociology, this book is a must have.  It is listed on Leadership and Sociology must reads and for good reason.  Definitely worth every penny of the price.
1	1203897600	As the saying goes, the plural of anecdote is not data. However, in Nickel & Dimed, Barbara Ehrenreich presents her particular experiences as though they are scientific experiments that lead to one unarguable conclusion -- that the minimum wage must be raised.However, as scientific experiments, her experiences leave a lot to be desired. In the first place, Ehrenreich is palpably biased. She is a socialist, and while I don't think that being a socialist makes a person a poor journalist, it may tend to color one's interpretation of experiences in the workplace. I think it's fair to say that someone with a different worldview (let's say a capitalist) could have had the exact same experiences that Ehrenreich did on the job, but walk away with a completely different conclusion.Secondly, she seems to be arguing that wages are too low; that, as she states early on, we cannot expect people to live on the current minimum wage. However, the vast bulk of her write-up is not about the *economics* of her situation, but on other aspects of work that she finds distasteful. She talks about how degrading it is, to be expected to clean a floor on one's knees; or how she resents the drug-testing that is part of employee screening for certain jobs; or how working hard has a tendency to make a person sweat, which is unpleasant. Whether these things are good, bad, or otherwise is besides the point, really. If the minimum wage were raised, some house-cleaners would still be required to clean floors on their hands and knees, many jobs would still require drug-testing, and working hard would still lead to sweat. Ehrenreich seems to resent these jobs, not because they don't pay "enough" to meet some sort of standard that she deems necessary, but because they exist at all. While describing her stint as a maid, she makes an aside to rail against the fact that people want to keep their homes as sterile as a motel room or soap opera set. She hates the entire idea that some people would pay others to clean their homes, and this anger is besides the fact of the pay-scale involved, because she finds the *work* itself degrading. She hates the relationship of "master"/"servant," and brags how she, herself, has never hired help in that fashion.Of course, if she had hired help, then she could have paid them a "fair wage" or a "living wage" or whatever her socialist conscience demands of her -- which would be a nice deal, presumably, for the person she so employed -- but she doesn't do it because she hates the idea of people working in those kinds of jobs, at all. And so, as I say, most of the book is angry at the jobs she describes, not because of the economics involved, but because they exist. I find it hard to imagine her paradise, in which, apparently, no one works at jobs that she would personally find unpleasant. Would there be garbage collectors? Would there be nurses in retirement homes, cleaning bed pans? Raising the minimum wage would do nothing to eliminate the fact of these jobs, or the degrading experiences that Ehrenreich spends so much space in her book lamenting.When it comes to analyizing the actual economics of her situations, Ehrenreich never quite goes all the way, and her experiences don't quite measure up to reality. Her gimmick of staying a month in one place to see if she can collect enough income for the next month's rent is... an interesting one, but it's flawed in a few ways. In the first place, she often spends a bit of time -- especially in the beginning -- in a job hunt. So, she winds up not working the entire month. There are other times when she decides to quit from a job, and thereby loses time there. It would be one thing to see whether a full month's pay is enough to support a person, or not, but Ehrenreich's approach doesn't demonstrate this one way or the other. She also limits (and thereby lengthens) her job search, and her economic possibilities, by refusing to investigate jobs which she deems unsuitable for one reason or another. In her first stay, in Key West, she opts not to pursue an opportunity in telemarketing because of "personality conflict."Also, it just isn't the case that the true "working poor" are always new to a town, a situation, a living arrangement, etc. Yes -- they might be in a situation similar to Ehrenreich's for some amount of time, but eventually people have spent time in a locale. Eventually, they become accustomed to certain tasks, and then proficient. The first month of being a waitress might be quite the ordeal -- especially to a person accustomed to a writer's lifestyle. But people are adaptable, and if given enough time doing it, I suspect that some of the tasks she found so repellant at first would eventually have become second nature to her. Because every new task is so, well, new to Ehrenreich, it all leaves the strongest possible taste in her mouth. Real people in real situations grow tougher over time, and less sensitive to these kinds of tasks. Real people also often have a host of mechanisms to supplement their own efforts, economically. They work multiple jobs; they have roommates; they rely on the personal charity of friends and family; etc. I have personally made use of all of these tactics, at one time or another, and I currently have three roommates -- together, we share a house in Hollywood, at a price per person of *less* than some of the rents Ehrenreich took in her book. Ehrenreich rejects most of these out of hand, though she does make a couple of efforts at working two jobs, and seems to feel that having roommates is an atrocity of the capitalist system. One example she raises is that of a female co-worker who has a male roommate, and has had a couple of unwanted advances. Well, right -- sometimes roommates are inconvenient and/or pesky, but that fact of life will neither disintegrate nor change whether we raise the minimum wage or achieve some sort of Marxist utopia.Ehrenreich bothers to describe her single-person dwellings, and deplore the conditions there. All of her bedrooms are "small," whatever that means. At one point, she complains that a prospective unit doesn't even have a television. Is a television now a necessity on the order of food, clothing and shelter?Is the grand conclusion that Ehrenreich comes to that being poor is less desirable than being wealthy? That it is difficult to move into a new city, without family or friends, without marketable skills, and immediately secure a wonderful place to live and a perfect-fit job? That not having money is, at times, a real inconvenience? Ehrenreich doesn't want to scrub other peoples' toilets, and she wants a large living room -- I get that -- but this is a far cry from the purported goal of her book, which was to demonstrate that a person is unable to make rent by working these sorts of unskilled jobs.Yes, the unskilled must rely on other stratagems to provide all that they need, at times. They must sometimes have roommates, and friends, and family, and work extra hard, or do those jobs that others do not want to do. It has always been thus, in every society, and stretching back through all of time. Entry level jobs are termed so because they are not designed to be life-long careers. People need to be able to stay in a position and promote, or learn skills for a more involved/better paying job, or find another strategy to get through life, like marrying a better-providing partner, etc. Ehrenreich sees it as an indictment of the system that a person cannot take an entry level position and stay there for a lifetime, without roommates, without personal charity, without advancement or education, and be in most respects just as well-off as anyone else. Her idea is flawed on its face, and reminds me of a joke:A man is caught in a flood, but refuses to evacuate because he is a devout religionist, and believes that God will rescue him. Neighbors come, insisting that the man leave, but he sends them off, saying that God will save him. The Fire Department comes, but the man sends them away, sure that God will save him. Finally, a rescue helicopter shouts down with a megaphone, saying that they're dropping a ladder -- the man's last chance to get away -- but the man waves it away, declaring that God will save him.The man dies, and appears before God. The man is incensed, and demands to know why God had forsaken him in his hour of need. God says, "Forsaken you? What are you talking about? Who do you think sent the neighbors, firemen & chopper!?"Ehrenreich determines that she will make no use of any of the opportunites our society presents for a person to get by, and ultimately advance, from entry-level work and poverty... and then declares the difficulties she experiences to be proof that the system is broken. But the truth is, the system only works for us when we are seriously intent on making it work. Ehrenreich did not want the system to work. Instead, she wanted articles that supported her socialst ideology, and in that -- as scientists with pre-determined agendas often do -- she got what she was after.There are many other reasons why this book is flawed. Ehrenreich has an unbearable self-righteousness that soaks through the book like a sponge cake, and her contempt for anyone of the "owning class" is hateful, and sad. But my review has gone on too long already, and the central reason why this book does not work is that, at its core, it does not in fact do what it claims that it does. It does not prove what it sets out to prove. It provides anecdotes, but ultimately does not deliver the data.
5	1203811200	The book NICKEL AND DIMED: ON (NOT) GETTING BY IN AMERICA by Barbara Ehrenreich should be required reading for all Americans. Ehrenreich embarks on an experiment, which she documents in the chapters of this book, to see if she can pay the bills on full-time (plus) work as a low skilled worker in three different communities, Key West; Portland, Maine; and Minneapolis. It turns out that in some areas she can barely make ends meet, and in one she cannot manage it at all. This book makes the difficult lives of the working poor very, very real to the reader.In order to investigate this question, Ehrenreich sets some rules for herself, that she will have a small "start-up" fund and enough money for a car. She will have to pay all her bills, including rent, out of the salary of any job she can get with no resume to speak of, seeking out positions as a low-skilled or unskilled laborer in the $7 per hour range.Ehrenreich is a waitress in Key West for her first endeavor. She finds a place to live 30 miles from where she works (many of her colleagues at her waitress job live in cars or with others in trailers). For her second adventure, she cleans houses for a national maid franchise in Portland, Maine, and adds a part-time weekend job as a dietary assistant at a nursing home. In her third try, she takes a job for Wal-Mart in Minneapolis, but can never find a place to live in the Twin Cities metro area that she can afford (she ends up living in a Comfort Inn until she aborts the experiment due to exceeding her budget).Throughout the book, Ehrenreich examines the industries in which she works, the policies and procedures of the companies she works for, and writes compelling of the day-to-day struggles she deals with as a low-wage earner who works full-time (or more than) in the U.S. economy. She researches drug testing for major employers (her experience with this phenomenon is with Wal-Mart), food assistance for those under the poverty line and other such related issues as she encounters them. In the Minneapolis chapter, she follows the housing costs-wage ration in depth, as she discovers that she cannot afford rents in this area on her full-time, physically demanding hourly salary at Wal-Mart.Overall, the reader can take in fully how completely demanding and utterly destabilizing life is for the working poor. Ehrenreich had no financial cushion for any medical situation, let alone an emergency, or any added expense, though she worked more than 40 hours per week sometimes. This book really makes the point that for those who live in a higher income bracket, we enjoy much at the expense of those who have little or no economic power due to their "low-skilled" classifications. The humiliations and degradations Ehrenreich and her colleagues had to endure from employers, landlords and "helping professionals" are truly awakening, and upsetting. This book caused this reader to question how her life is supported and financed literally on the backs of the powerless who provide the manpower to propel much of our economy.I strongly recommend this book.
4	1203552000	There are undeniably accounts of heroically lifting oneself out of the deluges of poverty but in the case of the average worker each day is the same as the last, earning barely enough to manage their meager finances.  It is not the case, as many would like to think, that the harder you work the more benefits you will reap; the American Dream is unfortunately unobtainable to even the hardest workers America has to offer.  Ehrenreich discusses her personal experiences with poverty while attempting to work her way into a comfortable living routine.  However, when faced with the struggles of working in a low wage job - mentally, physically and financially - she discovers that life is not as cut and dry as an outsider would optimistically think.  The harsh truth of poverty in America is commonly ignored and shuffled into the corner; Ehrenreich's book outstandingly highlights the facts through research and experience (both hers and those of coworkers and acquaintances she met along her journey).  This book absolutely needs to be read and (hopefully) appreciated to its fullest.  The situation of American poverty has been pointed out and now we must recognize our ability to enact change throughout our society.
5	1203379200	I had to buy this book for a college class I am taking.  Once receiving the book, I didn't even wait for it to be assigned, I read it and loved it.  The author writing is unique and I loved the way she got in touch with her research.  I have a list of friends waiting to read the book, they have to wait til my class is over...
5	1202428800	One of my favorite books. I have read it multiple times, both for class and for leisure. It makes you wonder how the richest nation in the world has so many individuals living on, below, or near the poverty line, barely making it by. Read it and learn more about how much we are in need of policy reform.
5	1201132800	As I sat down with this book, which I had been wanting to read for a long time, I wondered whether it would be worthwhile to review a book seven years old that is based on observations and data almost a decade old. After all, a lot of economic history has happened since the late 1990s--the dot.com bubble burst, we went into a recession in 2001 that featured a two- to three-year "jobless recovery," we entered into two wars that helped us to win back the huge budget deficits that we had lost in the 1990s, several of the nation's big corporations fought for the title of "largest and meanest bankruptcy in U.S. history," and the "excessive exuberance" in the housing market (fueled by subprime lending) ran out of gas, probably assuring us of an economic downturn, if not a recession, in the coming year. In short, I wondered whether a book written in the heady days of the "new economy" (remember "the business cycle is dead, and we have killed it"?) would still be relevant.I needn't have worried (I didn't really). The story Ehrenreich tells is still a sobering read, and it has, in fact, developed overtones in the ensuing years that resonate even more strongly today. The impetus for the book was that the author decided in 1998, at the urging of Harper's Magazine editor Lewis Lapham, to seek employment at the lowest levels of the economic spectrum and then come back and report on it. Thus, for the next two years she worked as a waitress in Key West, Florida, as a house cleaner in Portland, Maine, and as a Wal-Mart "associate" in Minneapolis, taking nothing with her but a few clothes and a laptop on which to record her impressions. (Actually, she used her own car during the first assignment, but thereafter she used rental cars.)At this level of the economy, Ehrenreich writes, there are really two serious problems that must be addressed: finding an affordable place to live, and finding employment to pay for it. These issues are related, but they are also distinct, she says. One can work while living out of one's car or temporarily with friends or family, and one can take more than one job to make ends meet. During her sojourn, Ehrenreich finds that at the wage rates paid to waitresses, maids, and retail clerks nearly all workers have to do both at some point, unless they have spouses who contribute substantial income. And even then, if there are kids, the issues can be just as acute.For example, while employed at Wal-Mart, she becomes acquainted with a woman who works six hours a day at the store for $7.00 per hour and then an eight-hour shift at a local factory for $9.00 an hour. As for housing, she finds that many of the working poor are forced to live in motels, at exorbitant rates, because they cannot save up the deposit and first month's rent for an apartment. Others live in overcrowded lodgings or in rooms with no refrigerators, cooking appliances, air conditioning, etc. (Ehrenreich herself experiences this). And, recall, this is at the peak of the most prosperous decade in the U.S. since the 1950s. The working poor do not benefit from the general prosperity, but they are affected by it--as the "haves" bid up rents in the areas nearest to employment, the poor are forced to move further away. And then the problem of transportation kicks in.Two themes emerge again and again in Ehrenreich's narrative. The first is the indignities inflicted upon the working poor. From drug testing (which we've all accepted as routine today) to "personality" tests, withholding of employees' first week's pay (which happened to the author twice), the changing of shifts and assignments arbitrarily, and rules that employees cannot talk to one another on the job or leave the building during breaks, the working poor are told in myriad ways that they are the "untouchables of a supposedly caste-free and democratic society."The second theme is the psychology of poverty. Ehrenreich repeatedly asks herself why her co-workers put up with the low wages, the excessive work, the management browbeating, and the physical and mental stress. She proposes numerous answers, but the gist of it is that the working poor are most often trapped in their jobs. It can be transportation or simply the need to hold onto some sort of job security, however demeaning, deadening, and low-paying. But the author speculates that lasting damage is often done through what she calls "repetitive injury to the soul." Workers eventually feel that they cannot aspire to a better life, much less fight for their dignity.Our image of the poor has changed--I'm not sure "evolved" is the right word--over the past half century. In 1962, Michael Harrington's book The Other America brought images of the poor to the dooryards of contented Americans coming off the upwardly mobile 1950s. JFK apparently read the book and was moved, but he was too preoccupied with the Cold War and the growing civil rights movement to do anything about it. The book is credited, however, with being one of the influences that culminated in LBJ's War on Poverty. Absent the Vietnam conflict, and if either LBJ or Robert Kennedy had been the next president, much might have been accomplished. LBJ remembered the poverty of his youth, and Kennedy had become sensitized through travels in the south. Instead, the middle class was hammered by stagflation in the 1970s and turned finally to the Happy Warrior, Ronald Reagan, in 1980.By then, the vision of the poor had changed radically--we had come to see poverty, as Ehrenreich says, as a function of unemployment. The goal was to get the economy going to lift all boats (supply side economics), and workers were admonished to "vote with their feet." No one asked whether working wages were livable wages. The working poor were seen as "unskilled"--probably high school dropouts, people without ambition, alcoholics or drug addicts, etc. In contrast, Ehrenreich found that "there are no unskilled jobs." Every job, she says, requires sophisticated knowledge of one sort or another, both technical and sociological. In addition, the desire of her co-workers to do good work, despite the hardships, impressed her greatly.Thus, the most important contribution of Ehrenreich's book may be that it shows that the largest percentage of the poor in our midst today are not just invisible fringe elements or uneducated minorities but rather hard-working people of all ages and ethnic backgrounds, with good work ethics, who are caught up in a system that takes advantage of them. That is the difference a half century makes: the poor are no longer simply ignored--they are now actively exploited. The dark generalization that seems inescapable is that the prosperous in our society depend upon the working poor in much the same way that the planters of the pre-Civil War south claimed that they were economically dependent upon the institution of slavery (my thought, not the author's). As Ehrenreich states, the poor keep labor costs down, thereby strengthening bottom lines and keeping stock prices up for the investor class. Drawing an ironic conclusion, she says that the working poor "are in fact the major philanthropists of our society."Yet, what about changes since the book came out? How are we doing? Not well, actually. In a September 2007 Briefing Paper, the Economic Policy Institute summarized the situation as follows:* Real wages have been stagnant for most workers in the 2000s, especially since 2003.* The benefits of increased productivity (producing more with less) have not flowed down. In other words, workers have not shared economically in the productivity gains.* Wage growth in the 2000s has been highly unequal, with the higher wage groups gaining the most ground.* Despite low unemployment (i.e., a tight labor market), workers' bargaining power has diminished.* More downward pressure on wage growth is likely, as productivity growth slows and unemployment increases.Obviously, we have not yet solved the problem of the working poor.The second, and less time-bound, contribution of this book is more subtle but equally significant. In American political life, actions in Washington and national and international events receive almost all of the attention. This is justified, but only in part. High-level decision making affects us all. But in a presidential campaign year, particularly, the candidates and the media too often bandy about one-size-fits-all solutions to serious and complex problems. (Perhaps the low point in the presidential debates thus far was when Wolf Blitzer asked the Democratic candidates for a "Yes" or "No" answer to the question "Do you support giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants?") Such rhetoric amounts to little more than incantation, devoid of any real connection to life on the street as most Americans live it. I plan to vote Democratic, but I was dismayed that not one of the candidates had the gumption to tell Blitzer that the question was simply unanswerable with a "Yes" or "No."The importance of Nickled and Dimed is that it shows that an educated (Ehrenreich holds a Ph.D. in biology) and relatively affluent person can face up to, look closely at, and even experience the daily lives of the working poor in a sensitive and compassionate way, without either turning away or becoming overwhelmed with guilt and accepting platitudes for answers. This is a book that every Democrat should read because it says that we can, indeed, empathize without feeling that we are "soft" on poverty--whatever that might mean. It's time to let the nation know that this is still a vital issue and that it is still on the Democratic Party agenda.
4	1200700800	I you have forgotten what it is like getting by on the minimum wage, this is a good first book to start with.  Ehrenreich works at various minimum wage jobs for this book and she does a good job explaining some of the mental somersaults these people put up with trying to have a life on a low wage.  She talks about the jobs as well as trying to find living arrangements on this meager wage.  This is a book version of the TV show "30 days".  If you have seen that show, this book is like that.The part the struck me the hardest was how a co-worker at the local retailer was wondering if a $5.00 shirt was going to be reduced in price again because she couldn't afford it yet.  Ehrenreich does a great job explaining how hard the work is for domestic house cleaners.  She goes into great detail explaining how scrubbing on your hands and knees is supposed to promote extra cleanliness to the customer while at the same time she is told not to use too hot water even though it won't clean as well if it is not hot enough.This book left me in a very foul mood after I had read it.  I came very close to ending up a minimum wage worker before I was able to earn an education and my ticket out.  This book brought back unpleasant memories that I thought I had forgotten."Nickle and Dimed" is a very good and fast read.  If you do not know of this world, Ehrenreich gives you a glimpse into it and she does not romanticize their plight, although she does seem to cheer them on.  There are no heroes here, only desperate people trying to live.  It certainly gives you something to think about when you are in the next retail store.  Highly Recommended.
1	1200355200	Barbara Ehrenreich seems to have gotten it all wrong. It appears as though she learned nothing on her journey. Not to mention the continuous use of classist and racist ideas. This book gets two thumbs down from me.
3	1199664000	Though I am glad I read this book, I was disappointed by the authors' self-centered writing. The people she works with seem like mere extras, although they are the real experts on the subject. Additionally, I was surprised that Ehrenreich did not follow the advice (to find a church) given to her by a contact in Minnesota who had previously been in a similarly difficult situation. I can't remember much other direct, practical advice that is related in this book, and yet Ehrenreich fails to follow that piece of advice. The book was worth reading, but it seemed like the author could have done much better.
4	1199404800	Someone recommended this book to me not too long ago. I had read "Not Buying It: My Year Without Shopping" by Judith Levine. This friend of mine recommended this one as a better read. I have to agree with my friend. This is a much better reading than Levine's book. While Ehrenreich's views are colored by the fact that she knows she can escape any time and go back to living her comfortable life, I think she did a fair job of portraying what it is like to live among the working poor. There were definitely not a lot of "poor me" attitude in this book, especially about herself. I didn't detect any smug pity for others in this situation, just a fair reporting of the experiment of her experiences.It is an eye-opener. I have forgotten how hard it is to scratch a living while working in retail places that only pay you minimum wages or how brutal waitressing is on your body. I have totally forgotten the mentality of working with no time to relax. My family is not rich by any means though we may be more intellectual than interested in sports. My dad was laid off during the Reagan years, one of the thousands of blue collar workers who suddenly found themselves without jobs. I remember very vividly watching both of my parents going off to look for work during those years. As soon as I turned 16, I started working too in order to scratch some money for college. After college, I couldn't find a job in my field (this was during the Bush Sr. years), so I worked as a bookseller in a book store, retail clerk in a clothing store, jobs that are supposedly not minimum wage but were anyways. I had to move home because I couldn't afford to live on my own even with roommates. It took me years to get out and back on my own. This is just in the mid-west, mind you. I can't imagine what it would be like in bigger cities with bigger rent bills.I found this book to be very interesting and very informative. Yes, Barbara may be middle-class, but I think she is of the upper-middle class, not the lower middle-class. She admits to having a pampered job and she also admits that her jobs as a waitress, nursing home aide, and Wal Mart salesclerk were hard and can be mind-numbing. But she addes to her antedotes with revelant bits of information that I find so interesting. It really isn't being talked up in the media (at least not in my newspaper, it is). What I found very interesting was the food vouchers and what they can provide for you. It makes me wonder if that contributes to the rising obesity rates.I could go on and on but the reviewers before me really raised up some valid points in his/her reviews. I found this book to be more personal than others (not that I have read every single book on this subject) and would like to learn more about the working poor. This book was an excellent starter for this issue. This book also serves as a reminder of my working days before I met my husband.1/5/08
3	1199318400	Barbara Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America (Henry Holt, 2001)So this whole "changing the way America looks at the working poor" bit doesn't wash with me. Why? Maybe because I find it hard to believe that people don't already know everything that Ehrenreich tells us here. Maybe that's because I've spent well over half my working life at, or just above, the poverty level. Been there, done that, couldn't really afford to buy the T-shirt, much less pay the rent on the closet in which to store it. In other words, I find it kind of pathetic that a book like this had to be written in the first place, however I feel about the book itself.Many of the flaws, shortcomings, and shocking statements from someone who is as purportedly bleeding-heart-liberal as Ms. Ehrenreich have already been done to death, so my recounting them again isn't going to contribute anything. They're there, and they take away from the book. I do appreciate its premise (even if I do find it redundant, given how many of the working poor there actually are in this country), though I, like many other reviewers, wonder at Ehrenreich's seeming lack of experience with some of the things that might well have helped her stretch a buck (yard sales, etc., are wonderful things; I went close to a decade without buying a single book that didn't come from thrift stores, library book sales, etc.), and even though I am one hundred percent in agreement with her ideas on the soul-sucking evil that is Wal-Mart, even I found the anti-Wal-Mart screeds a little on the crazy side.A more balanced book like this would, I think, be a very good thing. This is not that book, but since it's all we currently have, it'll have to do. ***
3	1198886400	Probably not a lot - there's too many here and political bias and ignorance of what it is like to hold a $5-7/hour job runs deep throughout many of the reviews. I've had this book read for nearly a month now and I just haven't had the faintest idea about what I should say about it. It is remarkably good and remarkably bad all at the same time.So, let's start with the positives:-This is a well-written and entertaining book.-The workload at her different jobs is accurately described, especially the work at Wal-Mart (I know since I worked at one of their national competitors  stocking shelves, unloading trucks and working the 'back room' for 5 years as a second job when my wife lost her white-collar job and the bills started to pile up).-I give Ms. Ehrenreich credit for going out there and trying the jobs rather than studying them like a sociology experiment.Negatives:-Ms. Ehrenreich keeps on mentioning that she is "middle class" but her unfamiliarity with the rigors of the $5-7/hour job market shows me that she's had a pretty pampered work life. She claims on page 201 that she writes off more than $20,000 a year in mortgage deductions alone on her taxes - this is not the middle class that I know and understand. She did little research about where to buy her clothes, find her cheapest rents or buy the cheapest food. $40 for a pair of work pants? No visits to Goodwill or yard sales? She rents by the week and picks two super-touristy spots to start her experiment? All of these things add up to invalidate big chunks of her experiment in my mind.-She spends an inordinate amount of time discussing Wal-Mart's policy of having employees take a drug test (at least 25 pages). She even claims it might violate her 4th Amendment rights on p. 209 even though those Constitutional restrictions only apply to government, not private employers. She does not grasp the concept that those drug screens don't catch many drug users because they don't even bother to apply. She also fails to grasp that some employees need to be drug free when at work - I worked with a forklift every day at my $7.25/hour 2nd job - it was dangerous enough without throwing drugs into the mix. Many employees are cross-trained and may cashier, use a forklift, collect carts and stock shelves in a single shift.-I'm truly surprised that she was able to get 40 hours/week at Wal-Mart - their reputation is to work people 25-30 hours/week to avoid overtime at any cost. That rang very false to me.So, to sum up: well-written but flawed because the author had not done the simple research ahead of time (and in my mind showed disrespect to the very people she was supposed to be learning about). So, these strong positives and strong negatives add up to a 3 star average.
3	1197849600	i heard so many good things about this book, but in the end, i was a bit disappointed with it. yes, it gave me a glimpse into the world of the working poor, but i was already aware of how unfair it is. i think it is a good book for someone who has never had to work pay-check-to pay-check, so they can understand why people just don't "change their situation if they don't like it". i respect barbara ehrenerich for sharing her story and wish more people would be brave enough to conduct further experiments like this one.
5	1197763200	This book is both informative and hilarious!  Having worked as an entry-level factory worker among other low-paying jobs in the past, this book was reminiscent of those times.  Although I may sometimes characterize myself as "to the right of Attila the Hun" in jest, after having read Barbara Ehrenreich's book I found a renewed sympathy for America's low-wage working class--who, along with others--toil under the often times tone-deaf, out-of-touch upper echelons of management in Corporate America.
4	1197590400	Definitely realistic in depicting the blue collar or vested working world. Since I've worked jobs like these before I wasn't shocked by too much. It just confirmed and put into more intelligent detail what I already knew...
5	1197072000	This book is easy to read because the author tells her story of her experience with working in low paying jobs and trying to get by on such a low salary.  It is a must read for anyone who wants a better understanding of the working poor people in the US.
5	1195689600	My first exposure to this work was when I attended a high school play with the same name "starring" my wife's son. The message of the play resonated with me, as I saw the reality of much of the American workforce laid bare. My first job out of high school was as a construction laborer and I soon rose to the level of job foreman. It was a hard job with no future, no health insurance and no pension. Given the vagaries of the weather, you spent the months of spring getting caught up from the shortfalls of the previous winter, and the late summer and fall months saving up for winter. Fortunately, after a few years, I was able to go to college and enter a life where the struggles are different.Ehrenreich is to be commended for giving up her sheltered and privileged life in the upper twenty percent of wage earners to become a temporary member of the lower twenty percent. It is a life of struggle, hard work and constant fear. The people who live in this world sometimes seem to be irrational, but in fact what they do is rational. They want to improve themselves, but face many obstacles, some of which are natural and others that are deliberately inserted into their world. Many work more than one job, which leaves little time for leisure and pleasure. The people in the lower twenty percent are not slovenly or lazy. They work very hard and generally take great pride in their work. It is also a fallacy to claim that they are unskilled; some of the people have a great deal of efficiency expertise.As Ehrenriech documents in great detail, there is a growing inconsistency in the American economic body. Contrary to some of the "official" statistics, real poverty in America is growing, and the increasing concentration of wealth in a smaller percentage is a cause for concern. The numbers of people without health care coverage is rising, the number of hours in the average workweek is also rising and the amount of low cost housing is dwindling, both in supply and in locational convenience. Many workers are priced away from their work locations, forced to live some distance away, which increases their overall time and travel expenses.Capitalism is a powerful and effective economic tool, properly directed, it will channel resources to where they can be most efficiently used. However, there are some dangerous flaws, and one of the most dangerous is when a large percentage of the working population is on the precipice of financial insolvency. Ehrenreich documents the lives of these people; individually they are on the edge of financial collapse, yet there is evidence cited by Ehrenreich to indicate that these individual stories are indicative of a growing social danger in the United States. In the event of an economic downturn, we could see a feedback loop where more and more people are driven to bankruptcy, starting with the lowest wage earners and moving rapidly through those who were better off. This happened once before and we call it "Depression."
3	1195344000	I enjoyed reading Barbara Ehrenreich's book, Nickel and Dimed. It's not every day that you can have the opportunity to read the account of a journalist who went undercover to experience poverty first hand.  I was a little disappointed with the fact that Ehrenreich didn't go into a lot of details on the lives of her co-workers and how they managed to survive in poverty. It would have been nice if Ehrenreich would have actually made a close friend, so we could hear the story of someone actually living in poverty.  Ehrenreich thought she was experiencing the real thing, yet when she started, Ehrenreich had a stash of money and a car at her disposal.  Although, one time in the book Ehrenreich did manage to visit one women and learn her success story.There were parts in the book that were not as exciting as others. However, Ehrenreich did manage to sneak some humor into a very serious topic.  Ehrenreich also made some big assumptions throughout the book that could be taken very offensively such as her comment on the worthlessness of maids.All in all, I would have to say it was a very well written book. Once I started reading it, I had to continue reading it to see if Barbara managed to find a way to make ends meet living in poverty.
3	1195257600	While anyone could be angered by the political positions that Barbard Ehrenreich takes in this book, I don't think I've ever been more amused. She knows how to state her facts to keep her writing entertaining, yet, she pulls no punches. This is one of the funniest writings of working in the minimum wage world that I have ever read. From her time as a waitress, a Wal-Mart employee, and a maid. The most amusing part of this book that I will always remember was her writing about her position as a maid, cleaning a wealthy Buddhist's house, and then stating that the man pays thousands of dollars on retreats where he has to scrub toilets.I loved this book, and it was one of the most enjoyable reads from the social commentary genre. I wish every writer could present information as Barbara Ehrenreich did in this book.
2	1195084800	This would have been a good book if it had been written by someone who wasn't so clueless and so very arrogant. It's pretty clear that Ehrenreich has never been anything close to poor.The concept is a good one. Ehrenreich decided to work in a variety of minimum wage jobs to understand how the working poor manage to get by. The problem is that she pretty much ignores the people she meets working as a waitress, maid, etc. Instead the book quickly becomes all about Ehrenreich and how she learned, often distainfully, to perform jobs that were clearly beneath her. She spends very little time exploring the lives, interests, beliefs of her co-workers and focuses on her own feelings. The reader is given only brief glimpses into the real subject of the book, the working poor.There is something very dishonest about her approach. She never really tries to make it on the wages she earns. Instead, when she runs out of money, or decides it is time for a job change she just quits, goes home to collect more money and look for the next place to go slumming. This isn't an option for the real people in her book and it shouldn't have been for her.In my time I have worked in some of the jobs Ehrenreich describes. I know that the folks who wait tables and clean houses are interesting, creative and, yes, intelligent. This is something that never seems to have occurred to Ehrenriech. She spends almost no time exploring their lives, interests or backgrounds. Nor does she have any idea of whether the people she worked with are happy or sad, healthy or depressed. She has no idea what they think about life, what they hope for, what they belive in. And above all, she has no idea how they manage to survive.
2	1194566400	The idea behind the book is great and she made a fine effort to understand that many people in America are not getting by.  But, it is clear the further into the book you read that she has never had to.  She does it for a month at a time and then gets breaks to go home and relax.  I would recomend the book to people who have never been poor and want to try to understand what it is like. But, remember it is just a skimming of the pond.  Those of us who have been poor; don't bother.  We know what our problems are and there are so many more than what is in the book.Those of us who have been there do not get a break to go back to our real lives.  That is our life for years, with no break.  I applude her attempt to understand this problem, but she didn't do it long enough and she makes it seem like it is impossible for people to make thier lives better.  I have been there and I pulled myself up, not that I am rich now.  But, I am stable and content.  The options are there for people if they have the drive, though it is not easy to do, it is possible.  I find it disturbing to have someone write a book about something she did for three months, and not even back to back.  I think it was a nice try, but needed to go deeper and make it a longer book and not a long article.
3	1194480000	This is an interesting, but clearly left-of-center account of what it's like to be one of the "working poor" in the United States.  Ehrenreich seems a little heavy-handed in her writing, and thereby loses much of her journalistic objectivity in the process.  She suggests that she has the right answers to the problems she encounters, but many of her answers could surely be contested.I am a huge Bill Bryson fan, and I even enjoyed his "A Walk in the Woods," but he didn't really walk the whole Appalachian Trail -- what a disappointment.  "Nickel and Dimed" gave me the same kind of feeling -- Ehrenreich only "sort of" lived like those she writes about.Still, this book is worth a read -- even if it's not quite what it purports to be.
5	1192752000	Excellent book! It gives a voice to many Americans who currently are not being heard - the working poor. Should be required reading for everyone.
4	1192665600	Read this book it will get you thinking. There are no easy solutions but it is a problem that needs attention.
4	1192320000	Some Amazon Online customers disagree with my fondness for Nickel and Dimed. Various readers consider the author to be elitist and sheltered. These people consider comments such as, "I am, of course, very different from the people who normally fill America's least attractive jobs," to be arrogant. However, these comments can also be interpreted as Ehrenreich's admittance of her obvious differences from most low-wage workers, as well as her ability to give credit to her newfound co-workers. This reader goes on to criticize the author's choice of locations; Florida and Maine especially, because as he claimed, they will always be more expensive than most places. This is not necessarily factual. It will always be difficult- virtually impossible- to squeak by when earning $2.73 per hour plus tips at a low-traffic restaurant. This is inevitable whether the restaurant is in Key West, Florida (a supposedly "rich" city) or a rural area, where the cost of living will require other fees. Yet another complaint from this reader is that Ehrenreich is racist in her statement, "My worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the crap jobs and substandard housing for themselves." On the surface, this comment absolutely sounds racist. Throughout the entire book, though, Ehrenreich systemically drops these types of comments with the intention of a) being sarcastic and b) exemplifying how easy it is to develop stereotypes of people (i.e. oppressing others) when you, yourself, are oppressed. As seen, the author cannot be blamed for these particular wrongdoings.
4	1191888000	For anyone who did not have to struggle through a minimum wage job as an adult, this book is for you. Way too many Americans think people can survive on minimum wage. This will humble that opinion and identify your misconceptions.
3	1191542400	I had to read this book for class and i must say it was a good read. extremely easy to read and equally funny.
5	1191110400	I got it in time for class, actually ahead of time.  Fast delivery, great price, item was exact.
4	1190937600	As I read this book, I found myself nodding my head repeatedly.  Barbara Ehrenreich's words are true.  I know because I LIVED THEM.  Her experiences were my own over the past five years when I found myself unable to continue the professional career I had chosen and moved to a new city to start over.  Big mistake.  Although interviewers were thrilled to hear that I had a college degree, I couldn't find a job that would pay me more than $9.00 an hour--and don't think I didn't try.Basically, I thought it wouldn't be too bad, because like she says repeatedly, poor people find a way to get by, don't they?  I must also admit that I had a bit of snobbishness going in, thinking that with my skills I would rise to a manager's rank in no time.  Boy, was I mistaken.  I wound up working next to people who had worked in the same jobs for five years before they got a promotion (and whose wage was within a dollar of where it had been when they started).  I also found that there was a sort of layer of management, that a promotion may only be in name only, like shift manager, but that those are the first jobs cut in lean times because that pay rate is slightly higher than others.I too learned from my coworkers not to work too hard, not just because management will expect more from me but that they'll expect more from everybody; that good behavior is so rarely rewarded; and that employers will outright put your health in jeapordy without a thought to consequences.  Insisting on something like a breathing mask when working with noxious fumes or kneepads when doing lots of floorwork will label you a troublemaker and an outcast.Most surprising of all, however--and something BE does not discover--is that people quit these jobs because THERE ARE A MILLION OTHER JOBS OUT THERE THAT WILL DO THE SAME THING.  That was probably the biggest surprise.  There is no reason to stay at one job when another will give you the same money and treat you just as badly.  These are not employers who care about resumes and work history (indeed, resumes are considered superfluous and if you bring one, it will be shifted off to the side in favor of applications which often say DO NOT WRITE SEE RESUME).  In fact, sometimes it works better for people to shift from job to job as life circumstances change.  A woman might quit her day shift at CVS in favor of the graveyard shift at the supermarket during the summer while her kids are out of school because the babysitting arrangements work better, then at summer's end go to work for Arby's during the day again.  Of course, that only happens with the flexibility of transportation.  If you are counting on public transit or someone else to give you a ride, there's little recourse but to make do with what you've got.While a few of Ehrenreich's conclusions seem farfetched--I did the pee test several times and think it's wise, especially for those who use machinery, handle kitchen knives, and are driving company vehicles--she hit the nail on the head when she explained that companies OWN their employees for the time that they're there.  Things like scheduled breaks, limits on conversation even if the work is getting done, and video orientations are demeaning and dehumanizing.  And that doesn't even mention things like hour cuts or schedule changes.  Imagine what it's like to travel an hour by bus to find out that your schedule was changed, and that you're now working TOMORROW--even though the bus fare you just used and the fare to get back is the last money you have until your paycheck comes in four days.  That happened to me twice--I borrowed money from my boss to manage it.The wage itself is a problem.  I was okay on the basics, but only bought two pairs of shoes each year (about $25.00 each) and bought discount everything--soap, shampoo, toothpaste.  You don't really know it until you're there, but a little piece of you cries inside when you have to say no to a pack of gum or a cup of diner coffee because all the money you have is exactly enough to pay the gas bill.I won't get into great detail about my housing situations, except to say that I ended up staying in an abusive relationship for a while because I had nowhere to go, then lived with a guy who spent four months on the Internet after he lost his job because his name was on the lease too and I couldn't take him off without his permission.  Are there ways around these situations?  Sure...and in fact lived in a shelter for a little while.  However, in the first situation I was obligated to three months of the rent, and in the second could not afford court fees to evict him, which is what my building manager said I would have to do.  When I was insensitive enough to mention offhandedly to other women at the shelter that I didn't really want to live in substandard housing, they all gave me a look of stiff disbelief and resentment.  Substandard housing was a way of life for them, even WITH abusive spouses.  So housing is absolutely is a concern, especially where there are children involved.At any rate, this is a book to buy that conservative you love dearly and wish would understand how the rest of the world lives.  Take it from me--it's the God's honest truth.
4	1190851200	At times I could not put NICKEL AND DIMED down.  Although Barbara Ehrenreich has a sense of humor (and anger), she can't hide the sadness she witnesses.  I am certainly going to look upon waitresses, maids, and hotel and house cleaners differently from now on--they'll get that tip or the full 20 percent, even if the service is not great (because I know why).Here are some examples of her graphic and to-the-point style:"Let's talk about s..t, for example.  It happens, as the bumper sticker says, and it happens to a cleaning person every day.  The first time I ecountered the s..t-stained toilet as a maid, I was shocked by the sense of unwanted intimacy.  A few hours ago, some well-fed [...] was straining away on this toilet seat, and now here I am wiping up after it. ... I should explain that there are three kinds of s..t stains.  There are remnants of landslides running down the inside.... (p. 92)."...A coworker once advised me that, although I had a lot to learn, it was also important not to 'know too much,' or at least never reveal one's full abilities to management, because 'the more they think you can do, the more they'll use you and abuse you.' (p. 195)"When someone works for less pay than she can live on--when, for example, she goes hungry so that you can eat more cheaply and conveniently--then she has made a great sacrifice for you, she has made you a gift of some part of her abilities, her health, and her life.  The 'working poor,' as they are approvingly termed, are in fact the major philanthropists of our society.  They neglect their own children so that the children of others will be cared for; they live in substandard housing so that other homes will be shiny and perfect. ... To be a member of the working poor is to be an anonymous donor, a nameless benefactor, to everyone else." (p. 221)The only negative I found in NICKEL AND DIMED is Ehrenreich's short ranting (or so it seemed) against unionizing big powerful merchants which pay dirt-poor wages.  Yep, to join you have to pay dues, but "united" members can get more of the benefits and pay they deserve than a person alone can.  Just imagine shutting down such a national or international chain so the workers can be paid more than $6.00 to $7.00 an hour, and have to work two or three jobs to just get by!
5	1190419200	Barbara Ehrenreich did impeccable research into the lives of people who bag our groceries, serve our food in restaurants, and work in those giant discount stores that happily take our money.This was an exhausting walk in the shoes of people we assume must be living better lives, because, after all -- This Is America!Read the book and ask yourself, why are there Americans working two or three jobs and still can't live an "American" lifestyle? Buy some extra copies and send them to your Senator and Congressman. It's time to create a way out of working poverty.
5	1189900800	This book grabbed me from the first page and I couldn't put it down.  It was laugh-out-loud funny in parts, tears-to-your-eyes sad in others, touching and thought-provoking all the way through.  It is a glimpse of the lives of people who are truly struggling just to live. I hope that it is being used as a text in business, economics, sociology and political science classes!
5	1189468800	If you've never had to work in a minimum wage job and give those that do a hard time-- read this. Nickel and Dimed is a fast, easy read, and is well worth your time. After reading this, you'll always leave a tip.
1	1188259200	Barbara Ehrenreich's story of her experience of living as a minimum wage worker is an example of terrible writing/investigating. The intelligence she showed forth was small. She knew she had a limited supply of money but she didn't spend it well. She was biased in her views towards many people including blacks, Latinos and her coworkers. She constantly quit jobs and obviously wasn't able to become accustomed to the "minimum wage lifestyle". You don't have to life a terrible life if you are paid poorly, and you definitely can't live a life of luxury, but you can live fairly comfortably. It seems as though she did it all to simply sell a book and make money. Overall, Nickel and Dimed was a terrible and biased account of people that have to live their lives as a minimum wage worker.
4	1188259200	This is a must read if you live in a tourist area as I do.  I am very pleased that the local high school put thids on the summer reading list.
3	1187568000	I have the book, and while it's informative, Ehrenreich fails to reveal why wages are so low.Globalization is a huge factor.  Jobs are being outsourced to countries such as China and India.The feminist movement is a REALLY huge factor, hand in hand with the sexual revolution.  These have contributed to more women (more people) in the job pool.  Instead of having a family where Dad works and Mom takes care of the children, the parents are divorced, both parents have jobs--or the mother is unmarried and must work.  Plus women buy into the lie that a woman is worthless unless she's out there actually making money.Illegal immigration depresses wages as well.  My dad made over $20 an hour as a meatcutter--in the sixties.  Now that same job pays less than $10 from what I'm hearing.  We have illegal immigrants taking American jobs and Americans on welfare.  Something is not right with that picture.
3	1186963200	Ehrenreich certainly burnt up a lot of money at fast food franchises!  Who says that this is a fair example of how individuals at poverty level operate?  If the author had fixed just one pot of soup a week and eaten it for two or three meals, her spending would not have been so extreme.  Food is fairly inflation-proof; fast-food restaurants are not.
1	1185926400	Barbara Ehrenreich is a prime example of someone who's been educated right out of her mind.  Her Ph.D. appears to have crowded out all her common sense.  Therefore, I'll put this succinctly:The majority of people who are working for minimum wage in this country are full-time students living at home.  A few of them are senior citizens working for extra income to supplement their pension or social security.  In other words, the majority of people who are working for minimum wage in this country DO NOT depend on it for their entire income.The goal of minimum wage is not, and never has been, to provide for a person with no other income.  In other words, if you are planning to have a family, own a home, and drive a decent vehicle, you'd better plan on getting some skills that will raise you above the minimum wage skill level.Minimum wage jobs are ENTRY LEVEL.  That means they teach you the basic skills that every jobholder needs to have:  how to get to work on time, how to get along with other people, how to give customer service, etc.  If you are still working for minimum wage after six months on a job, there is something wrong with YOU, not the job or the employer.Sure, let's raise minimum wage.  How about fifty bucks an hour?  Then we'd all be rich.  Sheesh.Perhaps DOCTOR Ehrenreich's next degree should be in Economics.
3	1185926400	Barbara Ehrenreich's books starts with a wonderful premise, an attempt to understand how (and if) a person can live on and feed his/her family on minimum wage.  She tells a good story but gets wrapped up in statistics and indignation, and ultimately, she knows that she can always go back to her upper crust life, and is a pretender to the throne of poverty and suffering.  And in fact in her last stint as a working slob, she leaves the scene early, content in the fact that she may or may not have started a revolution in one Wal Mart in America.  I don't buy her dedication to the cause, she always had a way out.
2	1185753600	The idea of the book itself is tremendous but the author really ruined it for me to the point that every 10 pages I was turning to my girlfriend to tell her how arrogant the author is.  Along with her constant references to how lean, fit, and strong she is, was her constant elitist demeanor.  Instead of describing the people she worked with she described what is was like for her.  When I finished I thought that the thesis was more pointed to how a wealthy women lives on minmum wage for a month.If anyone wants to see a more interesting protrayal of life on minimum wage I suggest watching the first episode of 30 days.  I know its a movie but its really good.
5	1185753600	Low wage workers are disproportionately women and minorities. This book uncovers how and why that happens with lots of documentation and some humor as well. A great read.
1	1185062400	Other reviewers have said it here, so I don't really need to say much...but reading this book (and I had to stop before reaching the end), all I could think was - this is crazy.  The author is absolutely shocked by what she finds while working low-wage jobs.  The author is apparently so well insulated in her upper-middle-class life that she can't even seem to relate to the people she encounters as people - and certainly not as equals.  The book, I guess, is meant to shine a sympathetic light on struggling, working-class lives, but it just comes off as insufferably condescending.  The worst scene (and the one that has forced me to put down the book), comes when one of her fellow maids twists her ankle.  In the author's mind, she must immediately go the to emergency room.  When her coworker does not want to do this and would rather keep working, Ehrenreich has no respect for her decision, but rather rages on in her mind about how she has a Ph.D and knows what this woman should be doing and how can this woman keep cleaning up the unbelievable amount of stray social-elite pubic hairs and not do exactly what Ehrenreich feels is right immediately!  Afterwards, she puzzles over why this woman works so hard, tries to do a good job, and does not just steal stuff.  Of course, in the moment, she only manages to piss off everyone on her work team, for reasons that apparently completely escape her.This book seems to be mostly an exercise in exorcising the author's guilt about being upper middle class.  She spends a lot of the book making fun of the 'social elite' who live in homes with more than one bedroom.  This is apparently, in her mind, her way of relating to people who have less money and struggle with poverty.  Of course, it comes off as totally artificial and disingenuous, especially when she gives such little respect to her fellow coworkers.  For Ehrenreich, meeting and working with people from the working class is like encountering aliens from another planet.  I really don't think that most people, aside from Ehrenreich and maybe some members of the royal family, are so removed from life's daily struggles as to find this book in any way enlightening.  If you are looking for a serious and sympathic book on struggles of the working poor, this is not it.
3	1184976000	I have conflicting feelings about this book. On the one hand, it vividly exposes the struggles and lives of working class Americans to an audience that might otherwise lack such insight.  However, it was executed with a highly elitist tone.  Though I give credit to Ehrenreich for making her experience as real as possible, the task is impossible for her to fully execute.  Coming from her background and knowing safety was at the end of her temporary trials greatly changes the situation.One of the largest advantages she had in this project was that she had a car, which would be highly unrealistic under such realistic economic conditions.  She also had a doctor she could call when she felt sick.  She had preexisting knowledge about health and nutrition and a slew of other things.  Most of all, she had hope.  She knew she wasn't stuck in that situation and she knew she had options to fall back on if any extenuating circumstances were to arise.  The people actually in these positions in reality don't have such options even planted in their mind.  They live in a world of anxiety, confounded by the fear that they'll get sick and not have healthcare.  They fear that if they make the slightest mistake they'll lose their job and have nowhere to turn.  That fear and insecurity can't be simulated.I felt many of the comments made throughout the book came across very derogatory.  Though I do not remember the page, I recall a comment in regard to Latinos that I was in shock about and read several times just to make sure she wasn't being sarcastic.  The assumptions she automatically had about the poor were presented in a very elitist tone.  Again, coming from a different background than these individuals, she supposed that her life experience was in some sort of way superior to theirs.  She did however remain respectful to their face when she worked with them.I say all these critical comments, but like I started out by stating - there is value to this book.  It does offer great insight into the lives of working class Americans who really are working so hard for so little.  However, I find it quite ironic that it is a book by someone from the middle to upper class creating a simulation that gains such acclaim...opposed to an expose from someone who actually experienced those conditions and came out of it - someone who didn't have those thoughts of safety in the back of their minds at all times.
5	1184284800	I read many of the more recent reviews of this book, and I had to add my voice.  Ehrenreich does not try to hide the fact that she is liberal and sympathizes with the Left; anyone who is even slightly in tune with politics could pick up on that.  However, I do not think you have to be of a certain political persuasion to agree that this book is a very cold reminder of how capitalism works.  Do not get me wrong: I love to shop, and I support our capitalist system, but I also know--as this book shows its readers--that many jobs in this country make it near impossible to make a living.  I, like most people, had the minimum wage job, in my case fast food, but unlike the people Ehrenreich worked with, I knew it would not be forever.  I was working on my college degrees and knew that after six years, I would have my BA and MA and would be able to pursue the career I wanted, which would be rewarding both emotionally and financially.I will admit that Ehrenreich's anti-religion humor had me laughing aloud because as she explains to the reader, some people think if the working poor would find Jesus all would be well.  Everyone--left and right wingers--must be aware of the fact that if you find Jesus (or Buddha, or Vishnu, Zeus or whoever), your troubles will not go away.  Yes, I have seen churchgoers help their fellow churchgoer out and give them money to pay bills or eat, but I am quite sure that most people--religious or not--will not support someone forever through giving that person money every day.I really think that everyone, including those in other countries who mistakenly think coming to America will atuomatically better their lives, should read this book.
4	1183939200	My book club read this a few months ago and it really prompted a lot of great discussion. About half of the club thought Ms. Ehrenreich had a liberal agenda. The others believed the book was just trying to shed light on how hard it is to live on minimum wage. A thought provoking look at the working poor.
5	1183766400	We could have all found ourselves stuck in a $7 an hour job and struggling to make it. Ehrenreich has written an incredible account of her actual experience going under cover as a low wage worker in three different jobs, in three different parts of the country.  We all need this reminder to pay people what they are worth and to help and inspire them to break out of the low wage rat race and achieve their full potential.  Rebecca D. Turner, author of Tattoo
4	1183075200	No matter how successful a society becomes there will always be the "working poor." What Barbara Ehrenreich does in this great eye-opener (or refresher to anyone who's experienced anything like this) is to chronicle just how America's poor try to make ends meet in the world of high rents, poor quality of life and low-income jobs. What follows is a three-part tale of what can really only be termed a struggle to stay afloat as the author assumes workers' roles in the legions of the lower classes to see how it is that they live."Nickel & Dimed" is a sometimes depressing but necessary expose of low-income life in America. From waitress to house cleaner to Wal-Mart employee Ehrenreich carefully notes her working and living conditions to show what it means to live on minimum wage, and the results are grim. Grinding and consuming menial job atmospheres--as a waitress, she must be constantly doing something in between mealtime rushes and as a Wal-Mart employee she is told that taking any time from her shift to do anything but mindless retail work is "time theft"--coupled with sometimes dismal living conditions while always overshadowed by trying to stretch her meager earnings as far as they can go is sobering reading.This book just shows how many Americans today are living and working in a Wal-Mart economy that features ever more inequality. Circumstances have led you to seek employment at a crappy minimum wage establishment. You need a place to live, but the only choice is that one room thirty minutes away from said crappy job. The security deposit for the place wipes out whatever savings you might have had, and now to continue surviving in that room you must commute and work your tail off just to maintain that type of life. For many people in the book, this is a way of life. Improvement is not even a dream.A good work, almost a decade old but as relevant as ever.
5	1182988800	This book was really amazing. Ehrenreich has really done her research! I found this book funny and informative. Anyone who works in the low-wage world of starting positions should read this book and realize they aren't the only ones being screwed. Anyone who got a managerial position straight out of high school or college should read this book and realize what their employees may be going through. Anyone in politics should read this book and ... you get the idea. "Nickled and Dimed" is well-written and easy to read. I highly reccomend it.
5	1181088000	It was nice to read something that so finely illustrated what my family has gone through.  The only reason I'm not working at Wal-Mart and barely eeking by right now is that I'm in school and barely eeking by.  This book should be required reading, especially by people who think that the poor wouldn't be so bad off if they just had jobs.  And some folks wonder why the economic divide in this country is becoming so huge.
4	1180915200	Barbara Ehrenreich goes well into the life of Americans just barely getting by (or not) in America, working one to two jobs on minimum wage. She explores the economic hardships and problems our country faces, not to mention the extreme poverty and work that goes unnoticed everyday. Her story of how she coped with the struggle to survive in America on such low wage jobs and so much work was an eye-opening testimony to how this country must change and how hard it is struggling right now. Nickel and Dimed was a great read for anyone and everyone and will change the way you think the next time you go stay at a hotel or eat at the local diner.
5	1180656000	Every American should read this book and think about it every time they are waited on in the retail or service industries.  A witty, yet troubling view of conditions that many working Americans face every day.  You will be inspired to find out more about this issue.
4	1180396800	I've been reading the reviews of this book and I've been a bit surprised at the outrage. Mostly the outrage at the author, rather than the subject matter of the book.Ehrenreich can write. She's got a way with words, can tell a story. Every now and then, she has a tendency to drop in a word like 'postprandial', completely unnecessarily, to remind you she's got a Ph.D. in Biology, but otherwise, I liked her style.The book reminded me, in a bad way, of all the minimum wage (and lower) jobs I've worked in the past, the physical wearing-down, the total suck of dealing with Management, the need to get outside and just look at the world when the day's over.What really struck me reading this book was the difficulty the author had finding affordable housing. I felt bad for her coworkers who were working hard and still couldn't afford their own places, some of them living in vehicles.As for the complaints I've read in other reviews about how Ehrenreich's experience wasn't 'the real thing' because she kept her car, insisted on living alone and had a nice little nest egg to start with. Well, she was upfront about all of those things when she wrote the book. She didn't try to hide those facts or make herself out to be tougher than she is.But...there were the things she didn't acknowledge, but were there if you read between the lines. At one point in the book, she has to ask for assistance to get food. Yet, she always seems to have money for cigarettes. That, I found a little odd. Especially when she was working as a maid (been there, done that). Hello, it's hard physical labor. Why would you want to make it harder on yourself by inhaling fumes that negatively affect your ability to take in oxygen and perform physically?The other thing: when she moves to a new city, she gets two job offers: one in the plumbing department of a hardware store, paying $10 an hour, another at Wal-Mart, working for less. She glosses over her reasons for going with Wal-Mart, but they were pretty obvious to me. She went for the easier job. At the hardware store, she would have had to *learn* about plumbing and interact with customers. The Wal-Mart job involved picking up discarded clothes and re-hanging them. She did not have to interact with customers, nor did she have to handle money. And if you work in retail, those are the two big sources of stress. She took an easy job...and then complained about how hard it was. And, reading between the lines in her book, she only worked in that nursing home for 3 days (2 weekends). Three days is hardly enough to get any sort of feel for a job, yet the way she writes about it, you would have thought she'd been there for months.One other thing: When she went looking for work, she didn't try to think outside the box. She figured, with no experience and a high school education, her choices were: maid, waitress, sales assistant. There are jobs out there which provide free accommodation and which do not require any sort of education. When I worked as a zookeeper, my accommodation came with the job and one of my co-workers had a Grade 5 education. Another one hadn't finished high school. I have a friend who worked as a groom at a racetrack (again, no education required for that). She sometimes slept in a stall. It's far easier to save money if your accommodation comes with your job. But I guess, the author had no desire to really push herself and learn skills on the job. For that, I deleted a star from the review.Otherwise, the book was an engaging, thoughtful read.
5	1179964800	I wish everyone who has ever said, "anyone who works hard and tries can become something in America" would read this book. It's bad and getting worse. The very idea that you can live on $5.15 an hour (the current federal minimum wage) is absolutely ludicrous! It takes nearly three times that amount just to stay alive- much less prosper. Even if one has enough foods stamps for their food, it takes at least $9.60 an hour just to live- and that is ON WELFARE! Read this book.
5	1179878400	Although Barbara Ehrenreich is a long-time socialist, conservatives and libertarians should not dismiss NICKLE & DIMED as a leftist propaganda piece - it's not. Instead, the book examines some of the genuine shortcomings and problems of our current economic system. Although many of the working poor encountered in this book have found themselves on hard times due to the cascading effect of a couple of poor choices, most are trapped in a cycle of poverty from which there is no legitimate escape. For example, many of the working poor rent hotel rooms for $40 a day, and spend $20 a day on fast food meals. This leaves them with virtually no money left over. Is this really a choice? If they have no car to sleep in, no money for a security deposit, then where else can they live but a hotel? And if they have no stove or even a microwave, what else are they to do but eat fast food? There is no easy way out. For the most part, I firmly believe that you can be anything you want to be in this country, but that doesn't change the realities that these people face. My solutions to the inequality (better education, access to microcredit) would be different from those of Dr. Ehrenreich, but that's not what this book is about. This book is about profiling the real-life struggles of the working poor, and it does so in an emotionally gripping manner. The book is not anticapitalist, and it does acknowledge the poor choices made by some of these people, but mostly, they are stuck, and it is something that every believer in free-market capitalism should consider.
2	1179360000	Maybe the author was well intentioned, but Nickel and Dimed was a real disappointment. I did not understand why she chose to live on the financial edge, unless it was, of course, just to get material for a book. She showed little compassion for the people she worked with and was never one of them. A certain smugness about her education and fall-back funds was always there. It was more stories about abused wives,abusive husbands, abused employees,surviving with no education,living in awful conditions with drugs and alcoholin the background. I think most Americans who can read know these things. If the book had had a point it might have been how the plight of the poor can be helped with education, stronger families, programs that help the poor help themselves. The book was a downer with no answers and no hope. The only positive thing I can imagine coming out of it is profit for the author.
5	1179273600	This is a beautiful and haunting account of the "invisible" men and women of American society:  the working poor.  Ehrenreich takes a series of low wage jobs and proves that the jobs actually require a great deal of skill and that the cost of living, especially rent and the hidden costs of lack of cashflow, makes it impossible to get by.It is disconcerting at best that there are people in our society who work harder than us, who are in many ways a lot better than us, and who are nonetheless mistreated with slave wages, no health care, inadequate housing, and demeaning job conditions.  This is why we make them invisible -- via lack of empathy, comforting notions that "they" are stupid and lazy, and Reaganesque rationalizations that they "chose" to be poor.  It is this lack of empathy as well as the great humanity and dignity shown by Ehrenreich's colleagues that makes this an unforgettable book.We've always had the invisible in our society -- the indentured servants of the 17th century, the African slaves of the antebellum era, the Native Americans of the 19th century, the immigrants of the 19th and 20th centuries, the invisible men of the segregation era portrayed by Ralph Ellison, and today's "illegal aliens."  The common link is their low economic status; the racial, ethnic, and gender categories are simply tools to enforce and justify the systematic disenfranchisement of large segments of our society.It's disturbing that this is still going on in this era of political correctness.  But it should not be surprising so long as the distribution of wealth is so polarized.  Still -- and this is a theme that Ehrenreich did not sufficiently develop -- we continue to employ gender and ethnic tools to stereotype the working poor and to prevent ourselves from having empathy with "them."  The workforces Ehrenreich joins are predominantly female and hispanic.  We don't call them "n**gers" and "sp*cs" anymore, but we do call them "them" and "lazy" and "trailer trash" and "illegal aliens."  We are still using gender and ethnic divisions to help us define, control, and exploit an underclass.  And this exploitation includes the self-loathing that the poor build up -- a theme that Ehrenreich develops quite beautifully.This is a brilliant and moving book that I highly recommend.
5	1179014400	An engrossing book which dispels several myths about the millions of folks who work at mimimum wage jobs.  The American Dream does not exist for everyone.
5	1178755200	The premise of a well educated, intelligent scientist/journalist being thrust into the "basic wage" workforce sounds like something used to develop a low budget Hollywood comedy.  "Nickel and Dimed" presents just that scenario in detail.  Dr Ehrenreich manages to describe her experiences living on the basic wage in an easily read, engaging way.  As morally and ethically challenging as it may be, there is still room for warmth and humor.  Beg, borrow or buy the book and read it.
3	1178064000	There are a few different ways to look at the book, and that in itself is enough to pick it up and read it- it is thought provoking and it is well thought out and executed. If you look at it from a sociological perspective, there are a lot of interesting tidbits thrown in about the demographics and statistics of the working class, domestic workers, the poverty level, etc. In this aspect, it satisfies.If you look at it from an anthropological aspect, as Ehrenreich seems to demand, it fails miserably. She seems to see herself as a sort of Jane Goodall, slipping in with the primates and watching how they behave. She mentions over and over (and over) how demeaning her many low-paying jobs are, and how people treat her so badly while she does them. Then in the next paragraph she will talk about how she is infinitely superior to her co-workers. Her constant wish that someone will "notice" that she's different is surprising, and eventually becomes infuriating.Her world is all about her, and she never goes anywhere with her co-workers outside of work, calls them at home, or has anything to do with them outside of business hours. She doesn't take on a roommate, as anyone in that position really would have to do. She doesn't really get to know anyone in the lower classes because she doesn't bother to.After her final tantrum about how no one noticed that she was different and special, it becomes clear that in the end, she just doesn't get it. When she "comes out" and tells a few, extra-special, lucky coworkers about her real reason for taking the job, she is surprised that there is no dramatic outcry. She was surprised when someone asked her if that meant she wouldn't be there for her shift. But that very surprise goes to the heart of Ehrenreich's problem- she never really connected or understood what it was like to be in the situations she played with. The lower classes were not there for her amusement, and of course that person was concerned about her covering her shift. In that world, no one is impressed or feels lucky just to have been in the same room with a writer. They were concerned about being called in to cover extra shifts, about making it to their next jobs, and about arranging for childcare if that should happen. They were concerned about survival and making ends meet, not about Ehrenreich and her book.The point of the book is to illustrate the way that rents are too high and wages are too low, which everyone already knows. That has been a constant of American life for some time now, and it is no revelation. It is a nice thing to shine a spotlight on it and keep attention focused on the problem- just not while the spotlight shiner sticks her nose up about it at the same time.
5	1176336000	Really, how do minimum-wage Americans live? I read this book because my sister will be working as a waitress at $3 per hour this summer and I wanted to see what her life might be like. Barbara Ehrenreich paints a very grim picture of life at (or below) minimum wage in this excellently researched and written book. I couldn't put the it down until I finished it and it has definitely changed my view of the world. I feel this is a must-read book for all of us (I deffinitely include myself in the cathegory) who are spoiled by the service industry.
5	1176163200	I really liked this book for it's honesty and integrity.  The author Barbra imerses herself into the sub-culture of the working poor.  The part that really got to me was the part where she was cleaning houses.  The gulf between the haves and have nots is growing into an ocean, and this books solidifies my opinion of that.  A great read, it will amaze you.
5	1175472000	My twelve year old son is reading this book, after  his  teacher discussed it in class. I am thrilled.At this age it is difficult for kids to become engaged in non fiction, and this book did just that. He's engaged.Be warned though, I  am told  by  him  the "f" word is used within but,  in what seems to be  both in appropriate context and tone for the subject.  The conversations that follow his reading this book are  right on target  for  what  what a middle school-ler should be learning about the work world around them..holly alred[...]
2	1175385600	BE is a woman with a very liberal political perspective and her bias was quite obvious when she did her "research". She wanted to see how the "little person" gets by in minimum wage jobs. It seemed that all the worker bees she encountered were hard working, big hearted individuals foisted into an unrewarding and unfulfilling life. All the "bosses" were brutish and loutish as well as bigoted and unfair. Her book could serve as the preamble for the Communist Manifesto. This book was neither valuable nor illuminating. Her husband by the works as a union organizer, need I say more.
3	1174780800	While anecdotally interesting, the experimental design of this "study" misses the absolutely key aspect. The real females of any social class are not monks on a book-research mission. They date and marry, and thus have boyfriends and husbands. Minimum wage workers are no different - they have guys in their life, who typically do far better than min. wage. (That's just statistics, since a great majority of men do better than that.) My GF earned close to a min. wage for a while (that is, when she actually even worked), yet went on exotic ocean cruises, jetted around the world, lived in a luxury beachfront condo, and frequented five-star restaurants and spas. So were most of her friends with similar earnings. Of course, the massive transfer of wealth gladly received by women from men, that rivals if not exceeds any existing or realistically possible government assistance program, does not fit the notions of left-wing feminist-oriented authors and hence is not mentioned in the book.One could ask - in that case, who do guys live on min. wage? The answer is really bad (I did that for 6 years while in school, I know). Could that be why far fewer guys that girls live on it?
5	1174003200	i am a sams club employee wal-mart owns sams club and this is true statements for one of the largest company in the world .............
5	1172448000	great, it was like she said, would buy again
1	1172102400	This is truly the most disheartening book I've ever read. Barbara Ehrenreich has killed the dreams of a lot of people by writing this book. I include myself here, because I spent over a year after reading this book with zero motivation, thinking why bother anyway, since the system is keeping me down.If you've read this book and feel discouraged, I recommend you pick up a copy of Think and Grow Rich (the book that helped me break out of the depressing mindset this book had me in).Ignore the noise of pessimists like Ehrenreich who try to tell you things are hopeless.
5	1171584000	This book provides an in-depth look at the low end of the income scale in America. Barbara travels around the country taking odd jobs in the food service industry and various department stores. Her experience may be shocking to the uninitiated, but those of us who have struggled up from these low places, it is business as usual. While the book is a bit depressing, it is a must read.If you are interested in learning how to rise above the low income lifestyle, you may want to read anything in the Rich Dad, Poor Dad series by Mike Kiyosaki, and you may also want to check out "The 17 Principles of Creating Wealth," by Phillip Collinsworth.
5	1171324800	This book was my summer reading. I LOVED it. It basically validated alot of the feelings I was having about the jobs I held before I went to college. I just wish she had done a chapter on working in the retail clothing industry. A great read for anyone that has worked in a low-wage job with no health insurance and a great wake up call for the very fortunate people who never have done that. A quick read and very funny too.
4	1171152000	Barbara Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America" focused on her journey as an undercover minimum-wage earner in an effort to find out how people survived on a six to seven dollars an hour. From Key West to Maine to Minneapolis, Ehrenreich discovered that it was indeed hard to survive on minimum wage. The biggest challenge she found was that the cost of housing was just too unaffordable for people not earning a lot. She worked as a waitress in a diner, maid, nurse, and a sales clerk at Wal-Mart. Through her jobs, she was able to meet people who were struggling to make ends meet.This was an interesting book in sense that we have here, an upper-middle class journalist/author who "learn" about the lives of the minimum-wage earners. There were some valuable insights but there were also some condescending remarks that reflected her elitist point of view. There were definitely flaws in her study but her clear and concise writing made this book an easy read.
5	1170720000	How many times do we hear people judge others and if a family is struggling there may even be some quotes like "Lazy" "Go to college if you don't like it." etc. if you find yourself saying this I suggest you read this book where a lady steps into another economical ladder in life then the one she has and tries to live. It's not boring it keeps you interested and may even promote empathy toward others...especially when you want to throw that shirt off the rack at wal-mart instead of hanging back up.
3	1170720000	I read this a while ago to see what all the hoopla was about, and I'll admit it.  I hate these types of books because I feel they're another case of people NOT listening to the poor or disadvantaged and wanting to try it for themselves to realize, "Hey, that homeless man was right, rent is too high," before going back to their posh apt.s in the sky.  It's the same with people wearing fat suits - why listen to an overweight person and let them realize their opinion matters when you can 'be' a fat person for a day and cry because men don't buy you flowers.That said, the book held my interest the same way nature programs do and just like those programs I was cursing the researcher out for their pompous attitude and sitting back and watching as others are in pain instead of doing something about it.  When comments were made about how "even though one subject didn't have much money, she still offered me half a bologna sandwich" (note, not exact quote) it made me wonder about the author's perceptions going into this.  The poor are people too and help out when they can, it's a part of humanity.The writing style was great and fun, she definately has flair as an author, but the project itself was rather insulting.  As I mention in the title, I've been there (living hand to mouth, governtment assistance, blah blah blah) and people always banded together.  It seems more like money separates people and those with it just can't imagine those w/out helping each other instead of going all looting.I think we as a country need to listen more to the actual people we feel are treated unfairly (poor, overweight, ethnic) instead of parading around as one of them and acting all smug and doing tv appearances about the trials faced in a world not understood from those outside it.
4	1170374400	In an effort to be applauded Barbara Ehrenreich attempts to give the audience an in-depth view of poverty levels in the working, lower-class American society.  She shows through undercover study what life is like living day to day wondering where the next meal would come from, where one would sleep from night to night, and the fears and anxieties that plague the oft forgotten "lowliest" of Americans.Ehrenreich explores and "reveals low-wage America in all its tenacity, anxiety, and surprising generosity" (back cover).  In the introduction the author explains her decision to study this lifestyle, and her reasons for writing the book.  She discusses the advantages and disadvantages of her endeavors: her education, her health, and her financial standing.  With no misgivings she differentiates herself from those "who normally fill America's least attractive jobs" (p. 6).  Here begins her life in a low-wage, "peanut butter and toast" way of life.Her unobtrusive observations take her to three locations across the United States: Key West, Florida; Portland, Maine; and Minneapolis, Minnesota.  In a chapter entitled "Serving in Florida" Ms. Ehrenreich enlightens the reader as to the stresses that accompany the life of a run-of-the-mill waitress.  She outlines her search for a place to live, a place to work, all while making sure she stays true to the "low-wage" quality.  Next, she moves to Maine where she obtains a job working as a house maid as well as a member of a nursing home staff, while searching for, at most, a space to live and to lay her head.  In her hunt she turns down one "apartment" that is available, but "is so disturbing, to the point of probably being illegal" (p. 55).  Finally, her adventure ends in Minnesota where she finds a job, among others, at one of the local Wal-marts where the employees do not receive over-time pay, and where "many feel the health insurance isn't worth paying for" (p. 183).  In her "adventure" the author, just to make ends meet, must take on multiple jobs (six in all), while constantly looking for a more economically sound place to live.  While on this expedition she is continuously reminding (consciously and subconsciously) the reader of these pressures and strains that are ever-present and that trouble the working class.To conclude her escapade she writes a culminating evaluation of her findings, discussing the issues that seemed universally prevalent among those with whom she worked and studied.  The following are a few anecdotal remarks that she makes. "At Wal-mart, a coworker once advised me that...it was also important not to `know too much'...My mentors in these matters were not lazy; they just understood that there are few or no rewards for heroic performance" (p. 195). "...All of these jobs were physically demanding, some of them even damaging if performed month after month" (p. 195). "Insofar as the poor have to work near the dwellings of the rich--as in the case of so many service and retail jobs--they are stuck with lengthy commutes or dauntingly expensive housing" (p. 200).  Finally, she states unequivocally that "you don't need a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents too high" (p. 199).While her attempt is worthy, and not without benefit, she lacks an aspect of life that is so invariable in the lifestyle that she studied: the fear that comes from not knowing what the future will bring.  She makes note of this, and even though she does point out her differences, she cannot accurately analyze the feelings and stresses associated with that fear.  She writes, "I had no intention of going hungry.  If things ever got to the point where the next meal was in question, I promised myself as the time to begin the `experiment' approached, I would dig out my ATM card and cheat" (p. 6).  Ehrenreich also had a car--a luxury that most of these people go without.  Although these weaknesses are evident, her work is important and educating.  Through citations of personal conversation with others she gives us a very clear picture of what life is like on the lower rung of the societal ladder.As a commentary on the poverty levels (which, she underlines, are inaccurate when officially reported) this book stands as evidence that we have a problem that must be addressed.  The book is valuable and if you need a real-life, nitty-gritty report on the socio-economic issues that pester our nation, here it is.  Read it.  Value it.  Use it to eliminate this obstacle in our pathway to an equal and equitable American society.
5	1170115200	In "Nickel and Dimed" Barbara Ehrenreich performs a test: she goes to three American cities and gets herself a job with a minimum wage pay rate to see if she can make the rent and survive on her own. She imposes limits in that she isn't allowed to use any of her own money as a fall back, she can't use her car unless she would be able to afford one, etc. What she finds are a series of back-breaking, thankless and soul-crushing jobs that don't allow her to live with any decent quality of life. In order to afford everything, she finds, it is necessary for her to have two jobs at once, leaving her with no leisure time and physically exhausted. And when she works at a Wal-Mart in Minnesota it is impossible for her to get a second job thanks to the company's rotating schedule policy, leaving her and her co-workers high and dry. America is supposed to be the land of opportunity, but when it becomes impossible to make your own way in a society that doesn't care about you what opportunity do you have? I experienced something like this when I worked at a book chain for four years and realized one day that every single one of my co-workers lived with their family or, at least, a roommate or two. Even the store manager couldn't afford to live on her own, and rented the first floor of her house to get by. If she couldn't live comfortably on a GM's pay how could we ever be expected to survive on minimum wage?At the very least, "Nickel and Dimed" will give you a new appreciation for the employees you don't ordinarily notice, and probably even abuse on a regular basis. It's easy to get mad at a waitress, impatient with a sales clerk, and frustrated with the maid you've hired, but Ehrenreich helps put you in their shoes for a while, and if the experience doesn't change you then I don't know what will. A lot of criticism is lobbed at this book for flaws in Ehrenreich's methodology, a general lack of answers to the problem at hand, and whether or not Ehrenreich is demeaning the lower class by pretending to be one of them. But I honestly don't see much down-talking in Ehrenreich. She may have a bit of a high opinion of herself at times, but she never talks down to any of her colleagues or intentionally offends them. Is the book flawed? Yeah. But is it very socially important? Yeah again. The relevance of Ehrenreich's reporting far outweighs any perceived slights people may attribute to it, and it is my humble belief that "Nickel and Dimed" should be required reading in this country.
5	1170028800	If you've ever wondered about the struggles the working poor face, read this book.  If you've never wondered, then you MUST read this book.  Ehrenreich does a brilliant job documenting her experience living the reality of the working poor in the U.S.  Its an eye opener even for those who believe they are well informed on the struggle of poverty in the U.S.
4	1169856000	The book is a remarkable concept that shows some fatal flaws.  Despite the flaws, it makes some strong points.  This is Barbara Ehrenreich's documented attempt to live at poverty level wages.  Her point is something we often forget:  It is impossible to make a living in low skilled jobs that pay near minimum wage.The experiment shows Ehrenreich trying in the three separate cities trying to live off of $7.00 an hour or less for a month.  She loses some sense of credibility when she has a habit of walking out of her jobs and quitting the experiment before the month is through.  The people that work in these jobs do not have the option to quit when they become upset.  If they quit, the real employees do not eat or have a home.  To her credit she does spend her time in the worst housing while working as a waitress, maid, nursing home aid, and even at Wal-Mart.  She discovers that each of these jobs is hard work that is greatky underpaid.  I suspect that with the profits from her book, she has already forgotten all that she learned.I have some serious objections to some of the other aspects of this book which other readers may overlook.  In her boredom, Ehrenreich attends a Christian service.  I do not take offense in a self-proclaimed atheist attending a Christian service.  I do take offense when she mocks the faith.  Also, Ehrenreich has a problem in her stop in Minnesota.  She fears that she will not pass a drug test to gain employment in Wal-Mart.  Illegal drug use does not seem to give credibility to an author who holds a PhD.  As a general reminder, illegal drug use is a crime.  Her drug usage also seems to indirectly reinforce a stereotype of the unskilled worker as being a degenerate and never far removed from being a criminal.  I know this is not the angle Ehrenreich was going for, but maybe she should have thought about that before writing about her "indiscretion".While this book certainly could have been approached better, I enjoyed most parts of it.  Reading it for a graduate class resource, I found much of the information useful.  I do believe that many others could have done a much better job in writing this book.
4	1169683200	This opened my eyes.  I had forgotten what it was like.  I was one of them.  But I was living at home with my parents going to college.  That is totally different.  But there was a while I lived in Colorado I was not getting by at all.  I was working as a waitress.  I was always wondering when my neck meal would be and how expensive the groceries.  There is one thing she did not talk about.  When I was dirt poor and you went to the local grocery stores they would take advantage of you.  An jack up the prices.  Or if you did not have a bank account and you needed your check cashed you had to pay them a percentage just to have your check cashed.  The area if it was poor took advantage of the poor.  She (author) just skimmed the surface.  But, now I can look back and say thank goodness I am not there.  But, I feel for these women because I was there.  But, I did have someone to fall back on when I decided I could not take it anymore.  But it must be dificult to make ends meet.  And notnot be able to fall back on someone else.  When you have to live like that all your life and you are stuck.  But it did make me think of the workers and appreciate what they do more.  I had forgotten.  But in the end no one can do anything.  You just happen to be lucky and have parents that have money or you some how overcome this.  I wish them luck.
5	1168992000	Took a little bit to arrive but was in perfect shape.  A really good book too!
3	1168905600	Barbara Ehrenreich had a noble idea: What would it be like to live the life of the Working Class? She set out to find out and write a book about her experiences. She states that the point of the book/experiment was not to push things until she went broke and she also stated that she would not do anything to put herself in danger, but that she would give each job an earnest chance.And then she doesn't. Realistically, after the first experience she had while working as a waitress in Key West, I didn't care too much about her subsequent experiences because of how she ended her experience in Key West. Again, she stated that she would give these jobs an earnest chance and she began working as a waitress in Key West. It was clearly tough work and she clearly wasn't living the life she was used to.So how does she keep giving the job an earnest try? She gets tired of the work she's doing, right in the middle of a mad rush, and walks out on the job. She actually WALKS OUT mid-shift and leaves her co-workers to pick up her slack. It was that point in the book that I wanted to reach right through the pages, grab her by the back of her shirt, and drag her butt right back into the restaurant to finish her shift just like her co-workers had to do.Ehrenreich has the benefit of having the money to quit when the going gets tough, but her co-workers were forced to pick up her slack because it's the only way they could come close to paying their rent and putting food on the table. She claimed she would give it an earnest try, but then shows she's simply in it to get enough to get a book deal.The author carries on to Maine and a job with Merry Maids and a nursing home. Again, she seems to just give up when the going gets tough and again leaves everyone around her in a tough situation that she didn't need to. Lastly, she ends up in Wal-Mart with similarly predictable results and the book ends with a thud.Ehrenreich will beat the drum of the Working Class, but to me she honestly does them a disservice with this book. Sure, I felt sorry for her co-workers, but it was more because Ehrenreich put them in horrible situations of walking out on them than was anything regarding their jobs. We all know that there is a Working Class amongst us that have to do the crappy jobs for crappy pay in order to barely, or not quite, make the ends meet. The least Ehrenreich could have done was to take us into this realm with an earnest attempt to let us live the life.Instead, I feel like I read this woman's version of The Simple Life, working the minimum amount of time, or less, at each job, and feel like it was more spectacle than honest assessment and attempt to waken us to the atrocities of the Working Class.Buy the book for what it represents, but don't expect it to deliver. Focus on the co-workers and leave the author to wallow in what it feels like to be just on the cusp of leading the tough life, but not quite actually there enough to write a commentary about it.
5	1168819200	This is a very interesting book, and is especially moving if you have ever worked in a low wage position. I have had jobs like those discussed in this book, and it is all very true. The book is taking a look at the people who are working low wage jobs as a living, not as a phase. When I say phase, I am referring to those of us that are still living with parents while we work through school, etc. The book is very telling of how society views its workers and it reminds us that we are all human, no matter what uniform we wear.
3	1168819200	Nickeled and Dimed has an interesting premise: an upper middle class woman tries to live on wages of an unskilled jobs in three different locations in the US. Here Ehrenreich describes her experiences doing just that and tries to relate these experiences to a larger frame of reference by laying out statistics about the US.From having done this and that over the summers while in college and having spent the past year earning 3.85/hour plus room and board I can sort of compare my experiences in accessing Ehrenreich's book. Two things that made Ehrenreich's experiences harder than they probably would be for a person who was living the life that she was trying to visit are that she moved around frequently and she wasn't as frugal a shopper as she could have been. The moving around means that she was always starting fresh. From my experience after about 2 months in a city I know where to go for this and that and my expenses drop. Also she wasn't the most frugal person. When she had to get khaki pants on short notice for a waitressing job, she spent 40$ on pants with a stain from a discount store. In Florida (the same state) at about the same time I had to get khaki pants on short notice and found them for 15$. I'm kind if fat and so there was less of a selection for me than for someone in a more common size. I doubt that normal people in such jobs would spend 40$ on pants. 15$ felt like alot to me. From Ehrenreich's description she didn't bat an eye at 40$Ehrenrich's descriptions of co-worker's plights are more realistic. While it isn't so hard to get by at poverty level (unless you get sick like missing work sick) I have trouble imagining how to raise a family on minimum wage. Descriptions of co-workers whose food budget was tiny are common. I kind of wonder how these people felt about being quizzed. I feel that there was too much focus on rent and food. These are big expenses but they are predictable. Once one finds a way to make ends meet that's stable at least.One aspect of being poor that I feel was neglected was the lack of medical care. Insurance coverage is expensive and if it doesn't come with the job then that is a big budgeting item. Also jobs without benefits are the one that pay less. Also the difficulty in getting sit down work if one gets injured is a huge issue. Ehrenreich kind of touches on these with statistics and concern for a co-worker with a sprained ankle respectively, but she spends most of her time discussing how the nations poor can't buy food or make rent and trying to make poverty an immediate life or death issue. For me poverty is about not having a safety net.When I was working for 3.85 and room and board (no benefits at all) I had a co-worker with higher pay use this book to explain how easy I had it. At the time I was trying to scrape together enough for a dental visit and pay some work related expenses. (I had switched jobs and underestimated the fees for work related training and equipment.) She was angry that I was having trouble getting cash together because that reflected badly on the company. Which brings me to a point: Everyday you are in contact with someone who is living at poverty level. Because they shower and know how to get by you may not realize this. The starving limping people Ehrenreich describes aren't common, but that shouldn't be used to undercut the problems faced by poor people who are not in an emergency state right now. It seems to me that many of the people I know who have read this book have strange ideas about the poor to begin with. So if you haven't been poor for a while then don't make this your only source for info about it.I reccommend Nikeled and Dimed, but take it with a grain of salt. Ehrenreich is a tourist of poverty and has a shallow impression not a deep understanding of the issues.
5	1168300800	Barbara Ehrenreich has done for low wage women workers what Gloria Steinam did for women sex objects [ie Playboy Bunnies] in the 1960s. The sad thing is those who need to read it won't.  It is a true expose` of life for the working poor.
4	1168300800	This book gives a sincere and honest insight into a world that many of us are not familiar with... the world of those who serve us everyday.  From our waiters and waitresses, housekeepers, nursing assistants to the people who stock the shelves at Wal-Mart.  Have you ever wondered how they get along with so little pay?  Many of them don't, or they work three jobs to get by.In an easy-reading format, after you read this book you will have much more appreciation for those in a lessor position.
4	1165276800	In the 5 years since it was written this book has gained somewhat of a following as a manifesto against free market treatment of the poor.(Ironic since free market countries contain by far the richest poor in the world.  Much of the poverty she illustrates would be called comfortable middle class elsewhere.)The biggest weakness of the book is that she seems to have entered into the project of living poor live with a hypothosis to prove--that the poor don't have the opprotunity to make enough money to live a decent life.  Then she sets out to prove her hypothosis rather than finding how how  the poor actually approach the challenge of being poor.  (So we get to see how a rich lady approaches being poor temporarily--a very different thing than truely being poor.)However, in spite of this weakeness it's still very compelling and an interesting read.
2	1164067200	Nickel and Dimed is about the author's experience of being a poor white women trying to pass off as a part of the working class. The book hits on several good points but she could have gotten the same information in an interview. A better book on the poor and not getting by is The Working Poor: Invisible in America.
1	1163635200	I agree with all the other one star reviews (would give it zero if I could).  The author is a snob who  doesn't see the people whose lives she is supposedly reporting on as human beings in any way equal to herself.  If they take their "menial" jobs seriously she looks down on them.  She demeans hard work and celebrates entitlement.  For another view of the poor with some conception of how people's behavior shapes their lives, read LIFE AT THE BOTTOM.
5	1163376000	A short trip into the minimum wage world through a jounalist's account of trying to "make it" on minimum wage in various locations in the USA. Gives the reader a glimpse into the harsh reality that many Americans go through daily. These individuals are treated with little or no respect and are no different than anyone else. The hoops these individuals have to jump through are shocking as are the lack of benefits, safety, food....basic needs. Minimum wage is a joke!
5	1162684800	I thought that I was aware of class issues until I read this book.  This should be a required text to graduate from high school in the U.S. (or to serve in elected office).
3	1162252800	The premise of the book holds so much potential: Barbara Ehrenreich works undercover to expose the ills of society by disproving the American dream. Bad, capitalism, bad! How touching, until the voice of the author becomes so righteous that one can't stand it anymore. I wanted so much to like this book, especially after the rave reviews it's received... but the ultimate delivery of a powerful theme is stated with too much self-importance.The book begins with a prologue describing how the economy is perceived to be booming, but from a microcosmic standpoint, it is upon the backs of those whose time is worth far less than the wage they are given. Fine, fine. No complaints. Then, of course, we're told once (and reminded several times) how she possesses a PhD and her surprise at the notion that she should be the one to go under-cover and take several jobs for one month in a different location in the US and document her experience. In Miami, she works as a server for 2 different restaurants. In Maine, she works as a housekeeper and nursing assistant. Lastly, she works in the women's department in Wal-Mart. She ends with a report card for herself on how she handled the situation.I fault the book for a couple of key reasons:While it's true that the 25% of the population who sit above the world in their ivory tower often have no idea about the working world (which might be one reason this book is becoming a must-read in several sociology courses across campuses), a good portion of Americans can read this and think, "and this is ground-breaking how?" I'm afraid the majority of readers who aren't exposed to such living conditions described by Ehrenreich will come away from this book with an increased sense of superiority and thank their lucky stars that they don't live like Barbara's co-workers do. Frankly, she offers no alternatives about how the reader can incorporate the concepts of poverty and wage control or how to change the dismal status quo. In fact, she otherizes herself from her co-workers in her mentality often enough (and congratulates herself on her perceived assimilation) that the reader's only lesson is, "I'd better get my degree too so I don't end up like these people."Furthermore, yes, Barbara Ehrenreich actually does the work and lives according to her means for three months... but she fails to integrate herself into the social sects of her coworkers or others around her. This is debilitating to her research because we only get a glimpse of the working world from the economic standpoint. By not engaging in the same social interactions as her coworkers she misses out on getting a holistic picture on what it means to get by in America.Her timeframe of one month (give or take) in each job is also entirely too short to get into a full routine. The first month of any job, regardless of how high it pays, is going to be full of isolation, confusion, and frustration. Though the labor might be difficult, it's true that one develops a rhythm after a given time period, but she leaves before it develops. If the author stayed for a while longer, say, 3 months in the job, I would give her more credibility when she describes her working environment, complete with its cliques, heirarchies, and the people she names.In continuation with her self-righteousness, she continually expresses how and why she's simply, "not cut out for minimum-wage work"--either her back hurts, she's too much of a non-conformist, and even her confession of turning into a mean person in the process is just another way she tries separating herself from those around her.  Yes, I understand it's difficult tolerating rude bosses, arrogant co-workers and sexism--but, her desired solution of wanting to shout that you have a PhD and that you're an under-cover journalist is not going to help solve these problems. Other ways she differs herself is in her physical shape and appearance. Several quips are made about the obesity of those around her, bad teeth, or lack of style... all of which she attributes to these poor people's circumstances. While it may be true that they lack healthcare, her almost derisive attitude does little to make the reader feel she is truly in this whole-heartedly.Lastly, she works entirely from a do-it-alone standpoint. As all of us should know, very few of us enter into the adult world alone-- students get aid from the government or their parents, workers have spouses to supplement an income, others live with their family members as means of supporting themselves, so on. In Ehrenreich's experience, she relies on no one but herself (and gives a few anecdotes about the difficulty of receiving shelter or food stamps). Aside from a few attempts to gain outside support from bureaucratic entities, her experience remains somewhat unrealistic as to how the average person gets by on minimum wage. After all, almost all of her co-workers prove this point since when describing their housing situation it is with the help of those close to them. Being someone who has worked two jobs at roughly 70 hrs a week for a summer to get by in one of the wealthiest, most expensive cities in America (Washington, DC), I can safely say that with enough support and encouragement from others, it's not as desolate and pathetic a life as Barbara states it to be. Those who work such long and difficult hours don't turn into the despondent, amoral conformists as Barbara makes them out to be--they're just people who maintain good attitudes in order to do the best with the circumstances around them. Furthermore, as the previous reviewer notes, all of us (regardless of income), including those with a degree, put up with physically exhausting and sometimes demeaning work. Sometimes no amount of money or no position can escape the daily grind.She reviews her efforts at the end of the book as being worthy of a B, or a B+. If an `A' is supposed to be given for effort, I give her a `C'. While she certainly pats herself on the back often enough for her efforts in making this book, no gold star is coming from me.
4	1161820800	This work was selected to be a community read. Barbara Ehrenreich's adoption of an unassuming disguise provides her readers with a dramatic portrayal of minimal income low level jobs. Ehrenreich's investigative approach is to be commended. But it remains to be seen if readers take Ehrenreich's frustration and then do something to cure it.
2	1160956800	Physical labor sucks.Okay, you know that, I know that, even Paris and Nicole (thanks to their reality show) have gotten it through their puny little brainage, but it's news to Barbara Ehrenreich, whose previous stints as Ph.D earner, activist and writer did not expose her to the grubby working world of dirty hands and aching muscles that most of us have managed to live through.It's a shame. This could have been such a great book, but B.E.'s got a preconceived agenda (welfare reform is never gonna work!) and an axe to grind (unless we raise minimum wage to 14 bucks an hour!).  To prove her point she goes undercover for the better part of a year, taking entry-level, low-skilled work while staying in expensive short-term housing. Of course, she could of just crunched numbers -"Let's see, 7 bucks an hour times 40 hours, while my pretend rent is $200 a week...carry the zero...nope, can't afford it" - but that would have just given her a puny little 2,000 word article for Mother Jones.  Book deals, on the hand, require more work, more commitment, but think of the royalties, so off she goes, just like Paris and Nicole, to work as a waitress, maid and Wal-Mart associate.At least until it gets too hard.  B.E.'s got a litany of complaints - my feet hurt, my back hurts, piss tests are demeaning, my boss is a jerk, customers are rude, my back huuuurts - and seems to think that only the minimum wager has to suffer such indignities.  News flash, Barbara!  Every job is stressful in its own way.  I'm a RN and it's a rare day I don't come home feeling like I've been beat with a stick.  I've been verbally abused and cussed out more times than I can remember, and that's just by the docs.  I've been pee'd on, poo'd on, run ragged, and called  "girl" by my stupidvisor (My response: I'm older than you, and I've had sex, and I'm pretty sure you haven't by the looks of you, so, boss, who's the "girl" here, and who's the WOMAN.)  I will admit I get paid significantly more for my putting-up-with-BS than the average Walmartian does for his.  But then again I earned a college degree, I had to pass a difficult competency test and I work under the constraints of my nursing license, for which I had to get fingerprinted and background checked.  So that's why I get paid more than a minimum wager, even though our jobs, probably 97% of the time, are comparable.I'll give B.E. 2 stars for her writing.  It's smart and witty and at times, she borders on hilarious, especially when she's mocking the minorities and poor that she claims to want to help.  Hey, I didn't say she was compassionate, I said she was funny.B.E., if you're reading this, consider this angle next time you want to write a book about not getting by.  Write a book about being poor and uninsured.  Write a book about wanting to advance your position in life, but not being able to, because as soon as you take that better paying job or go into business for yourself you'll be kicked off medicaid, and you'll run out of inhalers for your asthmatic kid, and you'll have to listen to him wheeze all night, and when you take him to the charity clinic a week from Tuesday, because that's the only time the retired charity doc can see you, you won't be able to afford the prescription since it's over a hundred bucks for one inhaler, so then you have to quit your job so you can qualify for medicaid.  Then when you're done with that, write another book, this time about the lack of decent public transportation in the majority of the U.S., and how this results in needing a car to survive, which leads to excessive personal income spent on cars, more tax money spent on roads and highways, to say nothing of the hidden costs of car accidents and obesity from driving everywhere because it's too dangerous, with all the cars on the road, to ride a bike.  Those books would be worth reading.
3	1159747200	I think Ehrenreich had a very interesting setup here - 3 different locations, various jobs, various living arrangements - which at least attempted to shed light on what America's working class faces on a daily basis. I think Morgan Spurlock did it better.There were several "Oh, my Lord, that's awful" moments in Ehrenreich's book - the description of how The Maids "cleans" houses...etc. The statistics quoted weren't very well analyzed and I wanted her to dissect those stats and tell me what was the connection she was making with them.I was a little bored with the long stretches of navel-gazing without much analysis on what this situation might mean to someone who might actually live this way permanently. Ehrenreich spends a lot of time with the "why me?" stuff and I kept thinking, "You're there for one month. Then you get to go back to cushy Key West and your real life..." She kind of cops out by having a car, starting out with a lot more money than most people might have, and she never has to deal with things like auto repairs, childcare, and a major illness of her own.Morgan Spurlock, of "Supersize Me" fame, has a show called 30 Days and the very first episode shows how he and his (then) fiance lived on minimum wage for 30 days. They do all the things you'd have to do in that situation - NO credit cards, very little cash, no car, no furniture, no nothing, really. They find shelter, find work, and then go from there. Both of them end up in the hospital at one point, which is a valuable insight into the idea of healthcare for the poor. They even borrow some kids to show what it would be like for a minimum-wage couple with dependents.I feel like Spurlock's interpretation of minimum wage jobs and their effects on Americans is much broader and offers a better analysis than Ehrenrich's.
3	1159747200	This is not a bad book, but it's not a good one. Although I certainly gained some insight from reading this book, I was disappointed (and surprised) by Ms. Ehrenreich's (or the editor's?) lack of fact-checking/ attention to detail, and/or embellishment.For example, I live in Portland, Maine (one of the locations profiled in the book), and I found that not only did the author misspell the names of various places (e.g., it's Preble Street, not Prebles Street), she also wrote that she had to run across the Maine turnpike from location A to B- conjuring up images of the poor woman darting between cars- when in fact she had used a bridge (with pedestrian sidewalks) to cross OVER the turnpike. She also incorrectly references certain establishments- referring to Supermarket A at a certain location when it's Supermarket B. OK, these things are minor, but all of them put together made me not trust this author and made we wonder what else she exaggerated for effect.I also found her to be very condescending in her tone, a holier-than-thou attitude taken by a white collar woman dealing with less intelligent blue collar ones. This made me very uncomfortable, and I was quite glad when I had completed the book.All in all, this should be required reading for all white-collar Americans, as long as they are aware that it may not be a completely accurate view.
1	1158796800	I usually love books in this vein, but not this one. This author decides to take a break from writing to work at very crappy places. Sounds inticing, but when you read it- you don't discover ANYTHING. She does not reveal anything that is shocking, or give you anything that made you say; "Wow, I didn't know that!" At times this book was very boring. A page on what cleaning supplies she used and what surface they were applied. Through most of the book I was asking myself- "Why am I reading this? I am not learning a damn thing!"Another thing that I thought was poor was how she had to tell about her religious beliefs, whih could have clearly been left out. If you are a Christian, you may be somehat offended at times. Overall, a very forgetable book.
2	1158796800	This book reminds me of "The Simple Life," with a PhD-educated scholar who belongs to the Democratic Socialists of America and who was voted Humanist of the Year instead of a spoiled socialite. It's essentially the same thing. If you like hearing a spoiled brat griping about having to eat convenience store food instead of the homemade lentil soup that she's used to, or if you like hearing rants about people who don't tip, this is the book for you. If you're looking for intellectual insight, it's not.As an entertaining read that can be devoured in a couple of hours, I give this book 5 stars. As a sociopolitical statement and work of undercover journalism, which it's technically supposed to be, I give it one. Averaged together and rounded off, that gives us two stars.
2	1157760000	Nickel and Dimed is an interesting read, but it falls short as a true study of the working poor.  Ehrenreich goes into her "experiment" with a definitive point of view, and she's intent on supporting it wherever and whenever she can.  We all know there are jobs out there for people with low skills that pay minimum wage, if not much more.  These are entry level jobs, and they serve a purpose...such as helping teens assimilate into the workforce, or older people who have been out of the workforce for a period of time, re-enter.  Of course, these aren't glamorous jobs, and many are fairly labor intensive, but the positive thing about them is they're relatively easy to get.  Ehrenreich dances around this, but she's obviously in favor of a *living wage* for all low wage jobs.  What apparently doesn't occur to her is if the government passes living wage laws all around the country, the number of entry level jobs will drop dramatically, and people who want a job, any job, will have a much more difficult time getting one.  Ehrenreich seems to think that every job should pay a living wage, no matter how unskilled, but that's where she's out of touch with the concept of a market economy.  The whole point is that jobs with more specialized and in-demand skills will command a higher salary.  Therefore someone who goes to medical school is going to make much more than a high school graduate who works a cash register at a supermarket, for example.  She's smart enough to understand this, but she seems to think the checkout clerk should make an artificially high salary because the job is hard work.  Or because she's a single mother.  Or because her sick mother is living with her.  But our economy doesn't work that way, you're not paid according to your need, you're paid according to your output.  The undercurrent of this book is a distaste of the c-word, Capitalism.  It's clear Ehrenreich prefers other "isms" such as Socialism and Marxism.  Ehrenreich has been an *activist* since she got her PhD. in the late 1960s, and this is yet another ax of hers to grind.Other themes running through the book are her abhorrence of anyone in management at the various jobs she takes.  These people are painted as sadists who delight in dispensing misery at every opportunity on the subordinates beneath them...when in reality they are much more likely just regular people trying to make ends meet themselves.  Whenever Ehrenreich refers to a black person, there is some snide comment or innuendo that their situation has somehow been negatively impacted by a white person, either real or imagined.  That's the way uber-liberals like Ehrenreich look at the world, they see "injustice" everywhere, whether it's actually there or not.  They're so used to looking for flaws, eventually that's all they see.  I had to laugh at Ehrenreich's ego when she talked about the reactions of her co-workers when she announced who she really was and that she was writing a book about her experiences.  They were apathetic to this, while she seemed to think they would react in jaw dropping amazement.  Did she really expect this?  What do these people care, it's not like they exactly have time to read her prose.  They have more important things to do.  Ehrenreich also feigns astonishment that her co-workers try to do a good job in whatever capacity they work in...she believes that they're so badly mistreated by management that they should simply screw things up whenever they get the chance provided there's no repercussions.  Ehrenreich underestimates the character of the people she works with, they know how life works and don't have the time nor the energy to chalk up every perceived slight as a *social injustice* like a liberal elitist.  As she herself writes in the book, if a person doesn't like working somewhere, they can always quit and find another job, that's the great thing about working in a free market economy.  People can also improve their skill sets so they can obtain a job with a higher salary, but Ehrenreich does not mention this option.  In her world, low wage workers are condemned to spend their entire lives slaving away for minimum wage.  Neither is a mention of the government's take of the paycheck of low wage workers.  She rails constantly how corporations are screwing the low wage worker, but is silent concerning government theft of their wages in the form of payroll taxes.I think the book would've been much more interesting if someone with more of an open mind had taken Ehrenreich's role.  As it is, the book has some interesting things to offer, but just doesn't provide enough depth or objectivity.  Her version would be more aptly titled, "Bitch and Whine" because that what she spends most of the time doing.
3	1157673600	One of the two books I selected for our school summer reading program was Ms. Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed". As a part of our discussion, I decided to have the students who read the book over the summer to write reviews for Amazon. Here is what they had to say:I felt that this book, although a decent insight into the lives of the American poor, was inadequit as far as Ehrenreich involving herself within the lower class. Aside from the fact that she allowed herself $1000 as a buffer so that she could succeed in her little experiment (which is completly unrealistic because in reality people living in poverty don't have that luxury), she was far too self-important. The way that she walked out of her first job without so much as verbaly acknowledging that she quit and how she expected a large reraction from her fellow maids in Maine made it seem like she thought that the world she involved herself in revolved around her. Ehrenreich does not seem to realize that there are thousands of people living in much worse situations and that people should not care about her that much because they have to look out for themselves which is far more important. 3/5I have to say I was unpleasantly surprised with this book. I was expecting some gripping expose into the world of low-income labor, the terrors that ensue, and just basically the horrible conditions and people that oppress the masses. However, what I ended up reading instead was just the same old information that everyone is already aware of. Yes, people in low-income jobs have it difficult. Yes, it's unfair. Yes, something should be done. Writing a book that just hammers these notions into the mind of the reader doesn't really do much to help the plight of the lower class. The thing i found strangest about the book was the 1000$ allotment that Ms. Ehrenreich gave herself. No minimum wage worker starts a new job with 1000$ put away "just in case." Ms. Ehrenreich really took the easy way out and made things more convenient for herself than if she actually had been working for only minimum wage with no back-up plan. All of that said, the book was a good way to kill time. I wouldn't recommend it, but if you have absolutely nothing more interesting to read, then go for it. 2/whatever stars.Nothing new here, a crusading liberal concocts a thesis about how welfare doesn't work, and then sets out to prove it. Trouble is, she gives herself too much wiggle room which does not accurately reflect the situations and challenges of minimun wage workers today. Politics aside, it makes for an interesting read, especially if you shop at Walmart or hire cleaning ladies. I'd say read it, but borrow it from the library or buy it used, it's not worth your $12 or whatever. 2 starsFirst off, i would have given this review 0 stars, mainly because I had very poor mixed feelings about this book.  For starters, this book wasnt very oppenen minded because it was centered strongly on the Barbara Ehrenreich 's oppinion, and not on the possibility that people could get by in america.  Also i didnt think it was very practical for Barbara to start out with $1000 to help her get started, because in real life, it isnt very relistic for people in poverty will have an extra $1000 just lying around.  I think that it would have been more relistic if Barbra Ehrenreich had started out with $100.  Also i believe that although she did a good job writing this book, she should have maybe explored more options such as the possibility that maybe by some myrical people in america could get by on minimum wage.  But throughout this book i liked that finally someone actually decided to experience the poverty of america, but i believe that Barbara should have been more open minded about her book and her oppinions.  I HATED THAT SHE WAS NOT OPEN-MINDED ABOUT THIS BOOK !!I found this book to be drawn out and obvious. The author went into her experiment with a strong thesis that she was just looking to prove. She proved her point after the first one or two examples, and the third was just plain redundant. I would suggest borrowing this book from a library in order to hear her point of view (as it is fairly valid) but I would not suggest reading the whole thing. In terms of content, the experiment was flawed in many areas. Not to spoil the book, but at one point the author made a very bad decision that caused her to waste money. While it would have made a novel interesting, it just degraded the quality of this documentary. 2 of 5I thought this was a great book to read. I would recommend this book to people who are more considered the "upper class," because it demonstrates how a it is for people to get by working for minimum wage. It was a little repetitive. The same thing happened over and over again just at different locations. But this stresses that where ever you go, you may have the same problems. I would give this book three stars.Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed  delves into the lives of the poor working class, or at least her vision of what this group truly is.  Often it seems that her views and expectations are set and nothing that happens to her will change her mindset.  This seems to result from her clearly biased stance on the matter.  I am not a conservative republican, but someone who would tend to agree with Ehrenreich.  However, I, and more likely countless others, would have appreciated a more objective stance on the matter.I definitely did not hate or even dislike Nickel and Dimed; there is definitely merit in her work, and she does proove some of her points.  For example, her belief of the existance of an 'invisible labor force' that is taken for granted is certainly exposed to be true.  From a purely voyeuristic standpoint, I did enjoy this book.  If this was just for entertainment, I would give it 4 stars, but in terms of actually proving a point of a flaw in our society, it recieves a 2.  Therefore, as highly complicated math proves, I give it a 3.  word.I have just recently read Nickel and Dimed as a summer reading book. I did enjoy this book verymuch and think that even though this book might be a little bias on Enrenreich's account, it stillis a very beneficial book to read because it shows the reality of America's working poor. The authordid do a good job of showing many various minimum-wage jobs such as being a watress, maid, nursinghome aid, and a wal-mart employee. Now I will look at these people differently and think, I wonderhow their lives are?where do they live? Are they homeless? You will learn that it's extremely hard tocover the expenses of housing, medical care etc.  If you have all the necessities and luxeries you want and needyou should really consider reading this book and you will really get a sense of how it's like to live without. I give this book 4 stars.Interestingly, this book is neither eye-opening nor inspiring.  It is fairly blandly written with no surprises in store and no real problems to overcome.  By cushioning her "experiments" with 1000 dollars cash, she effectively renders her efforts useless.  Whenever she perceives a real problem approaching she dips into her bank account and steers around it.  How is this at all like the experience of a true lower class wage earner?And to be honest, did we really need an entire book about the jobs many do every day.  Millions of Americans get by, one way or another, with a minimum wage.  So why is it that this upperclass woman sees a need to demonstrate her inability to live on these same wages?Not only is the book an uneeded additioon to an already cluttered genre of complaining, but she takes it upon herself ton try to fit the too-small shoes of a true wage earner.  By numerous insults to the upperclass she truly resides in, Ehrechreich effectively alienates the people that are really going to read this book-the rich.  What minimum wage worker will read a book that simply echoes their own lives?  Books are read to escape the problems and toil of everyday life, not indulge in these problems. 2 out of 5 starsPlease Ehrenreich, no more mindless banter!
2	1157500800	Big surprise,YES it is hard to work in the service sector in USA. This books is easy to read, but the author seems to have lived her previous life protected from reality. It is quite shocking that a grown well educated women seems surprised that she has little money left the day before pay-day, or that her back hurts when she has worked as a cleaning lady for ten hours.She is jealos of the people she work for, because they earn 2 dollars more an hour.In general this book is a boring tragedy of a women who really hates to work, and loves to complain. Get a life!
3	1157414400	This controversial book started as a Vanity Fair article, and indeed was an expanded concept for that magazine.  It's kind of sad that you even need a book like this, but here it is.This pre-Morgan Spurlock adventure in minimum wage employment is not particularly mind-blowing.  What the author does is explore a number of similar situations involving minimum-wage or thereabouts 'unskilled' labor and the lifestyle that goes along with it, and then makes some high level points about the whole business.  She lays out the ground rules for her experiment, such as safety nets in case the thing goes awry (hidden dough, a nice laptop to use to document this descent into misery, certain criteria, etc, etc).Will you be surprised to learn that working for minimum wage in the US of A does not a sustainable lifestyle support?  Do you really need to read a few hundred pages to learn of the waitressing jobs, the housekeeping jobs, the Wal-Mart jobs that require demeaning tests and absurd company propaganda and pay barely enough to keep people from living in their cars and sleeping in the always-open Wal-Mart parking lot?Thanks for the big headline, Babs.  And really, the book grows tired after several anecdotes about living on a few bucks an hour---this could have been a series of articles, it works better in that format.  Yes, the system is screwed up.  Yes, it is pretty much impossible to live on minimum wage alone.I will credit for lucidly bringing to light certain realities often ignored by people when trying to analyze the problems of lower income lifestyles, etc.  We often blame laziness and irresponsibility for dead-end lives, and point to the resources of the land of opportunity, but that denies other realities on the ground.  Real racism, real cynicism, and a crazy framework that renders all of the business buzz words and trends as totally rational contribute to an environment where it is not cool, fun, nor noble to be 'working poor' in America any longer.The book is, of course, potentially depressing, and often can be.  You can wallow in detail, or use this book and other sources to reach an informed opinion about the economy and the realities of wage stagnation and rich and poor in the USA.  We've reached a real pretty pass when we freely acknowledge current and future generations who can expect a lower standard of living than their parents...
1	1157068800	The book was dull, repetative and gross. It lacked any reasonable insight or commentary. Sure, it is a slice of life, but it comes to all the wrong conclusions. Like most people of her ideology, she thinks distribution of wealth, government intervention and unions would go a long way to solving most problems. She fails to consider that government is limited in its largess by taxation. Taking from one pocket to put in another is a zero sum game. And redistribution only goes so far.The idea that the working poor are self sacrificial is just nonsense. They don't "give and give." They, like everyone else, get paid as much as they can get. I am not callous to the plight of the working poor. An expansion of the earned income tax credit may be a good idea. But unions and socialism are no solution.
2	1156982400	the idea of the book is good, but barbara ehrenreich is probably the worst author ever. i would rather eat 56 bees infected with syphallis before buying another one of her books.
3	1156636800	Unlike Schrank'sTen Thousand Working Days, this book lacks integrity.  It's a story about a rich person who pretends to be a poor person, or rather, as poor a person as is comfortable to them.  Insulting to the people she encounters, and not informative to those  who read this book.  Ehrenreich's pretense lacks the key elements of her targets, namely their aspirations and their limitations.  The people she claims to have taken an interest in start in bad circumstances and aspire to better their situation any way they can.  Ehrenreich starts in stellar economic circumstances and strives to assume the worst situation that she will put up with -- the lowest paying job and the cheapest lodging that doesn't offend her or make her feel unsafe.  All the reader is left with is a better understanding of Ehrenreich's personal economic pain tolerance, rather than an understanding of working class America.  For that, read Schrank'sTen Thousand Working Daysinstead.
4	1156636800	This is the conversation we never have about the fellow Americans we live alongside. My mother made me learn to type, so my entry-level jobs were all clerical. I've never worked food service nor retail, and I had no idea how tough these workers really have it. As an office worker, even at the beginning of my working career, I always had healthcare and a retirement plan. (Even when, as an 18 year old, I couldn't have cared less about either.) This book revealed a world I never looked closely at, and I found these stories impossible to forget. In addition to the difficulty of starting out without housing or a nest egg, the working conditions are harsh and someone is making a lot of money off their labors. That's so disturbing and disheartening. Yet the women are courageous and their generosity of spirit is touching. I appreciate Ehrenreich's efforts, but like many others here, I wasn't crazy about her style. She talks all the time about the bad diets these poor women have -- too many processed foods, too much sugar -- and the negative impact this has on their health and lives. Yet since smoking is a vice she shares, there's little if anything about the cost and health hazards of the cigarettes she bums from her coworkers. I wish that she had taken a clerical job. It's been many long decades since I was a secretary (back when they were still called secretaries!) and I wonder how computers have effected that line of work. She's also continually shocked that these women don't fall over themselves when they find they're working with a published author, which is annoying and condescending. But still, I'm glad I read this book.
5	1156550400	It's hard to find books on class in America that aren't incredibly dense and boring reads.  This is not one of those books.  Ehrenreich is a good writer who lends her investigative journalism background to a difficult and controversial topic.  While some readers may debate her method in "living" in poverty, this is a good first step into trying to understand the underclass or working poor in America.  Whether you end up agreeing or disagreeing with Ehrenreich, this is an interesting book that will spark you think about an issue that has the possibility of becoming the next big issue in America.
5	1156377600	This is not Barbara Ehrenreich's first book. She had made a name for herself in journalistic circles with her books, including the collection of essays, 'The Worst Years of our Lives:...' and 'Fear of Falling..'. In this book, she explores the wage situation and life conditions of blue collar workers in contemporary America. Her findings make harrowing reading.Ehrenreich shows clearly how the rich poor divide has widened to epidemic proportions. That the average unskilled worker has to put in the greater part of the day working at repetitive, uninspiring tasks, day after day in order to earn a pittance, barely enough for a small family to survive on basics. How the decline of the powers of labour unions gives them virtually no cover at all, as regards even basic medical facilities and job security. That an employer's mindset, in general, is such, that all the employee is worth is the few dollars s/he earns in the hourly wages to be paid to him/her and to get the maximum fiscal benefit out of that, throwing all other humanitarian considerations to the winds, all in the name of free enterprise. Ehrenreich concludes that society will have to pay dearly for the kind of denial that squeezes every ounce of energy out of human beings, rendering them incapable of doing anything to improve their lot in life.In her latest book, 'Bait and Switch', Ehrenreich expands on the theme of the same employer mindset, i.e. employees are commodities to be used and discarded as and when needed. The subject of study in that book, is the white collar worker, who is unfit for unskilled labour and the surreal situation s/he finds him/herself in.I read 'Bait and Switch' before I read 'Nickel and Dimed' and the latter moved me more, because of the serious physical exploitation involved, a situation that captures the unskilled worker in a vice like grip, difficult to prise open. The very fact that the author puts herself in the kind of situation over a period of weeks together, before writing about it, speaks volumes for the innate genuinity of the material she imparts in her book.An interesting point to ponder over is that what goes around comes around. The kind of automation that we expect from blue collar workers in our society is also very likely, the kind of treatment we expect of ourselves, albeit, in a totally different sphere of operation. The question is, do we want to be automated beings who work for daily wages? Or conscious humans living creative lives?The answer would be the same for those for whose labour we are ourselves responsible, how do we view them? Do we provide them also room to pursue their dreams, even as we long to pursue our own?
5	1156377600	This is probably the best book on the topic of the working poor. The author rightly identifies low-wage workers as America's real philanthropists. Her investigation of the world of dead-end work in Florida, Maine, and Minnesota is courageous, morally and politically profound, and beautifully articulated. Her words are clear; full of meaning and emotion. I highly recommend this book to everyone.
4	1156377600	The book Nickel and Dimed is a captivating piece of journalism in which Barbara Ehrenreich goes undercover in three cities to discover what life is like for single women who earn minimum wage. At the beginning of the book she develops a set of guidelines for herself to follow such as find low rent housing, no sleeping in the car, never reveal her motive in this project until the end of each job which would last about a month, and if she was dangerously low on money she would then allow herself to use the ATM card. In the three states of Florida, Maine, and Minnesota, Barb, as she later began to refer to herself, took up jobs as a waitress and hotel maid in Key West, a cleaning lady in a maid service as well as a nursing home aid in Portland, and a Wal-Mart associate in Minneapolis. In her book Ehrenreich changed the names of the people she worked with and the apartments, trailer parks, and motels that she stayed in. The restaurant, hotel, and maid service she worked for all had fictitious names except for Wal-Mart. Through all of her time and tribulations Barbara made friends very quickly with her coworkers and learned the little tips and secrets to how they survive on such meager pay.What I believed to be very inspiring was the fact that Barbara stood up for her coworkers and friends at times when she thought that they deserved better than what they were getting or how they were being treated by their bosses. In one part of the book she describes the orientation process at Wal-Mart where she and 12 other new employees sat in a small conference room watching videos about the Wal-Mart lifestyle. One video explained to the workers why unions were such a bad idea and how they should avoid joining a union or even starting one up on their own; this video was brainwashing these new employees. She also made it a point to show the reader that the cost of housing is rising dramatically to the point where very few people can rent a decent apartment or even a trailer.Ehrenreich's investigative journalism is top notch. While she did give the reader many facts and statistics from labor laws to law suits, she tied them to story very nicely which makes this book a great read. The writing style is casual and conversational, but otherwise her writing is very clear and precise. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to learn more about the struggle of people who make about six or seven dollars an hour for their honest labor. What I found to be very surprising was that many of my friends had either heard about the book or had been required to read it for their high school class. This book really changed my thinking on the value of a dollar and how so many people today work these types of minimum wage jobs that are very necessary to our economy and barely survive. Mrs. Ehrenreich has written over 12 books dealing with non-fiction journalism and she is a frequent contributor of many high ranking magazines such as Time, The New Republic, Harper's Magazine, and The Nation.By Ben Roberts
3	1156377600	First, I admit, I enjoyed reading the book, so I give it three starts (instead of two).  However, as an analysis of what is wrong with low wage labor markets, the book gets a failing grade.I found her writing oddly offensive (often to the very people she is trying to "help").  There is a dash of self-righteousness and superiority in her tone, and one can't help but think of her at cocktail parties telling her friends about the time she went "slumming."  Although she seldom uses profanities in her book (except to quote others), the writing, just seemed, well, vulgar.  She makes fun of Christians and okay, I could be way too sensitive abou this, but I took offense to her treatment of blacks as well.  (She writes about a busy time in the restaurant in which her black customers look like they are going to call the NAACP.)  The author also makes fun of "management" without exploring the fact that they too, are barely getting by.  (In fact she is all too eager to side with "labor" against "management" for no particularly good reason, other than some cartoonish conception of what she thinks a low wage worker would do.)
5	1156204800	It's very much like the TV show Morgan Spurlock's 30 Days.  The author finds out how it is to live outside her normal income bracket.  It is homorously written and is well documented with facts and statistics.
5	1156032000	Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America is a compelling, all-too-real book about the struggles far too many people face in relying on minimum wage jobs.There are a few factors that this book can serve to help make a difference for people.1. For people involved in legislation to raise the minimum wage to at least $20 dollars per hour, so people can afford to buy gas to get to work.($20 bucks covers a mere six gallons of gas, now in 2006)2. This book can hopefully inspire people to create their own business, doing what they love to do, filled with passion and purpose, rather than just work with the wish that your workday will be over.And, 3. To create the change that you want to see in this world, by BEING the change you want to see in this world. Far too many people feel victimized by a society that in most cases couldn't care less about the downtrodden. So it is truly up to the individual to reclaim their own authentic power, and either get involved in "the system" to create positive change IN the system, OR to discover your purpose, so you are no longer (NOT) Getting By, but making a decision to THRIVE, from the inside out, one day, one moment at a time.In all cases, this book sheds light on a classic example of what to stay away from: Meaningless jobs, with meager wages that keep you down. This book serves as an inspiration to get up and do something about it, because only YOU can do that for yourself, no one else will do it for you.Barbara Rose, Ph.D. author of If God Hears Me, I Want an Answer! and Stop Being the String Along
3	1155686400	In a cross-country, low-wage endeavor, journalist Barbara Ehrenreich explores the depths of poverty at a time renowned for its opulence in her work, Nickel and Dimed. Her findings are eye-opening as she discovers minimum wages hold "an overwhelming, dank sense of failure": low-wage employees often struggle to make ends meet, injuries in the workplace are a common occurrence, and workers toil through long hours of strenuous labor with little sympathy and even less of a prospect for a positive future (48).Unfortunately for Ehrenreich, the power of her novel falters beyond its literary merit and pure emotional appeal. A few short pages into the piece, the political motivation for writing such a novel becomes readily apparent as Ehrenreich rescinds her promise to serve as a candid journalist and, instead, resorts to slanted statistics and language in an effort to stoke sympathy for herself as much as, if not more than, those laboring around her. Rather than depicting the plight of those in low-wage occupations and then seeking to understand the economic causes for such conditions, the reader is told the whole problem stems from "the wonks who brought us welfare reform" without any meaningful attempt to support such claims (4). Ehrenreich even admits: "I don't know how my coworkers survive on their wages or what they make of our hellish condition" (89). If she does not know how those who are working minimum wage are living or what they think of their surroundings, what is the intent of the book? Ehrenreich would have been better served spending her time examining why Wal-Mart has become the world's largest corporation and what that means about the demands of its consumers and employees alike rather than doing an injustice to those in poverty by attacking the company that continues to deliver low cost goods and employ her coworkers.Ehrenreich turns to Europe in search of a model representative of all that is right in the working world in contrast with the United States, claiming, "Europeans, no doubt spoiled by their trade union-ridden, high-wage welfare states, generally do not know that they are supposed to tip [in the U.S. because they don't have to in Europe]" (19). Unfortunately for her, much of Europe is literally downing in debt--yes, even more than the "horrible" U.S. in terms of GDP--as unemployment is hovering around nine to eleven percent and employment regulations across the board are stifling those who are searching for better work.Employing additional economic slight-of-hand, Ehrenreich cites stagnate incomes for the poor as an indicator of their plight. "In the first quarter of 2000, the poorest ten percent of workers were earning only ninety-one percent of what they earned in the distant era of Watergate and disco music" (203). However, its not clear if this statistic is adjusted for inflation and the statistic is an inaccurate evaluation of change over time for individuals--that is to say, a person in such a low-income category is unlikely to remain there for an extended period. Evidence for this more accurate portrayal of poverty is the University of Michigan's Panel Survey on Income Dynamics. This study discovered more than half of individuals earning the lowest twenty percent of earnings in the country had a five-fold increase in wages in four years or less, while only five percent of all individuals in the bottom quintile remained there after fifteen years. In all, it would seem the only time Ehrenreich truly alluded to the economics around her was with a sarcastic remark: "After all, if there weren't people who had far too much money and floor space and stuff, there could hardly be maids" (108).In her attempt to blame specific groups (conservatives, managers, and the wealthy) for the plight of the poor, Ehrenreich detracts from what could be a valid and important message: "the poor have disappeared from the culture at large, from its political rhetoric and intellectual endeavors as well as from its daily entertainment" (117-118). Instead, she employs paltry few statistics to validate her claims and even less exploration of the lives of those around her. In her final conclusion, Ehrenreich reasons we should feel "shame at our own dependency on the underpaid labor of others" while conveniently disregarding the myriad of products available and produced in this and other countries that makes nearly every good in America affordable (221).More importantly, Ehrenreich fails to explain how her own father brought his entire family out of poverty, "My father...managed to pull himself, and us with him, up from the mile-deep copper mines of Butte to the leafy suburbs of the Northeast, ascending from boilermakers to martinis," and why she now feels this upward mobility is no longer possible in America; maybe she believes that hourly-wage workers simply are incapable of anything but tragedy (18). Perhaps the real question is: what did Ehrenreich do with all the money she made writing this political censure? And would she and the rest of America be willing and able to find--let alone pay for--products only produced at premium wages? Nickel and Dimed has certainly helped shed light on the poor since it was released, but not without a few flaws. The real tragedy of the piece is the lack of focus on Ehrenreich's coworkers and the startling absence of any mention regarding the most important way to begin to lift her coworkers from poverty: education.
4	1155340800	I thought the book was great.  In fact, I think every 8th or 9th grader should be requiered to read it.  That should help them realize they need to learn some special skills or at least get a college education so they don't end up in these low paying jobs. Young teenagers are exposed to so much garbage as it is, they may as well be enlightened by "real life" too.
3	1155254400	The author researches the life of the working poor by temporarily leaving her job as a writer and taking low paying, dead end jobs at various places in the U. S.  Much of the book seems to be about her feelings about her loss of status and the indignities of blue collar work. She can't quite put herself in her coworker's shoes because she seems to perceive herself above them.  A better book would have been letting the workers and their employers tell their stories and point of view.
5	1154649600	An enlightening look at the struggles of those on the bottom rung of the economic ladder.My take-away from the book: The rich-poor divide has gone on too long. It's time for a change.
5	1154390400	I loved this book! Of course everyone is going to say "This doesn't really happen in my town, look at ME, *I* made it!!" or "She didn't do the experiment well, she had an ATM card"....did you actually expect her to starve herself?! WOULD YOU? Of course, if she had been able to do the experiement for 5 years things would be different but then she wouldn't have been able to write the book, duh! Also, if she had been able to do the experiment for more than 30 days in each town she could apply for foodstamps or rental assistance like a lot of low wage workers. The point was that you can't live on minimum wage without assistance or working two jobs....therefore the minimum wage is too low. These jobs are essential to other people living their lives yet we act like these people are so disposible. I think she focused a lot of the end of the book on Walmart because they are the #1 employer but are disgustingly corrupt. I worked for Target which is better but still not great. Also, the people doing the jobs along with her in the book aren't teenagers or elderly....they are women...probably women with little or no education and had kids very young. They made mistakes as children and will suffer for the rest of their lives since it is impossible to "get ahead".
4	1154390400	A good book, and a must-read for anyone who thinks today's minimum wages will allow anyone to live on their own.  As an expose, it reminded me of Tracy Kidder's books, since he also immerses himself in a particular setting.
2	1154217600	It was a very interesting book, and Ms. Ehrenreich is a very good writer.  I enjoyed the writing.That said, however, I didn't think Ms. Ehrenreich had a very objective stance.  She"said" her intention was to provide objective reporting by going undercover and working as a low-wage earner, but she obviously had an agenda, and the fact that she only spent one month in each place - and not consecutively, either, knowing that at the end of that thirty days, she would be going back to her cushy life ... well, I just felt a little cheated.  She lambasted the landlords, the employers, the customers, and even the communities in which she lived.And as a Mainer, and someone who has lived in Old Orchard Beach for nine years, I was a little insulted by her portrayal of us.That aside, however, I felt like she was out to prove that a person can not "survive" on a low-wage income, but the truth is that millions of people do - every day, and few of them bitch and moan about how awful it is ... but as she pointed out, they have hope that if they work hard, they can make it out of their rut.And the truth is that they can!  I did.  Given the circumstances in which I found myself at 18, I could very well have been one of those young girls (a wife at 18, a mother at 19 and again at 21 ...) that she described, but I'm not.  I'm a thirty-something college grad with five kids, a nice home, and my own business.I enjoyed the entertaining jaunt through Ms. Ehrenreich's fantasy tour of the lower class, but as a former resident, I know that much of her observations were skewed by the fact that she wanted to prove how destitute the working poor are, but in fact, she was unable to do so.
4	1153526400	The jobs talked about in this book are jobs teenages and elderly retired women are for them.  The book stuck home for me because, let's face it, women do demeaning work and are then overlorded over it by men who have the position because they are men. The tests your below average income workers have to take are bogus, more of an intimdiation ploy than anything else.  Your self esteem falls to an all time low.  The people working these jobs have no choice, it's work for minimum and put up with the bs, or don't work at all. It is sweatshop work without the factory.I may be mean, but I am always telling my children that they do not want a minimum wage job.
2	1153094400	I wish I'd read these readers' reviews and merely borrowed this book from the library, instead of spending $13.00 at an airport bookstore on this book.This isn't the sort of book I'd ordinarily delve into, but some co-workers of mine were discussing the premise of this book, and it sounded like an interesting social experiment, so I decided to read it and see what the hullaballoo was about.It didn't take me long, let's say less than four pages, to realize Barbara Ehrenreich was full of herself.  Ever prideful of her blue-collar Teamster-infused heritage, she repeatedly reminds us that "Home Town Girl Makes Good,"(being college educated and all), and now earns a good enough living that allows her to live very comfortably, to do as she pleases, and to still have a savings account.  A stark contrast to her temporary lab rat co-workers you'll meet throughout the story she weaves, to be sure.Her arrogant tone intereferes with the ultimate results of the experiment at hand: at the outset, she declares she would "try to live on minimum wages," while meeting her expenses.  However, she gave herself a safety net: she would never allow herself to go hungry or be homeless.  If that were ever a possibility, she would use her ATM card to withdraw money from her savings.  It would probably come as a big surprise to the author just how many less-than-middle class people don't even have a checking account, much less a savings account.  And if she came off as being believable to her new-found friends in Florida, Maine, and Minnesota, the believability factor was lost on me, simply because I knew she wasn't really buying into her situation.  She gave herself an out.  She should've read "Black Like Me"...now there's commitment to a project.Yes, it's a travesty how ill-respected blue-collar or "unskilled" labor is viewed in this country; the regular Joes are the backbone of this nation, and you betcha, they are all underpaid and overworked.  I think everyone should be required to be a waitress/waiter just once in their life; it would change your perspective of labor forever....but I digress.  And yes, she took several industries to task for their abusiveness and ignorance, but seemed to miss the reality of these perpetuating mentalities, borne of hereditary economics, geography, and education (or lack thereof).By the end of the book, I ended up thinking this was really more of a book about exposing the Wal-Mart Corporate Monster; I was convinced that this book was Ms. Ehrenreich's  thinly veiled agenda to ultimately skewer Wal-Mart, rather than focusing on how much of our society depends on minimum wage (sometimes multiple) jobs to survive; she missed a great opportunity to provide some discourse into some other areas that affect our earning power as a nation...namely, the illegal aliens who are willing to work for wages far less than minimum wage.  She went from the uncomfortable skin of a working stiff, to steaming indignation at realizing how annoying and inconvenient life without an ATM card was, to, finally, surreptitiously engaging her fellow "Wal-Martians" in conversations about forming a union.  Why couldn't she just play along on everyone else's level and embrace her poverty, instead of acting all educated and all that?I found myself angrily reading and forcing myself to finish this book, because, by God, it had cost me $13.00.  Hmmm...that would've been almost 2 hours of folding clothes at Wal-Mart for BARB.Unfortunately, Ms. Ehrenreich, the "real" working class doesn't have the luxury of opting out of life's crises with a simple swipe of an ATM card.  I wish I'd opted out of swiping mine when I paid for this book.
5	1153094400	For a contemporary global issues class, I had to read this book. At first I really didn't want to read it. About halfway through the first chapter I was hooked. This book is excellent and I learned a lot of information while reading it about life for a person living on minimum wage.
3	1153008000	The subject matter is interesting but the potential for much more is there. Babs was somewhat entertaining at times but her writing 'gets in the way' of the REAL stories of the poor people that REALLY live the 'Nickel and Dimed' existence.For sure, Ms. Ehrenreich is VERY full of herself. She spends way too much time on nonsensical anecdotes in the book, providing way too information about 'her' feelings.She seems more bent on making these cutesy quips and jokes than allowing us to be more involved or get to know the people she is supposed to be writing about. The story is definitely painted with a broad brush.If you are desperate to read this book, find the cheapest used one you can find.My best suggestion if you are truly interested in the plight of the poor underclass is to seek out a REAL poor 'Nickel and Dimed' person and give them the price of this book. For some REAL insight, take them to lunch...anything...you will feel better and will not have wasted your money on this book.In a few more years this book will be at every yard sale in America for 25 cents.
4	1150848000	I'm not sure how to explain how I felt when I read this book.  I was torn between interest and irritation.  I did think it was a good idea.  She says what needs to be said, that it's impossible to live on a minimum wage job, and that much is true so that was all I was really worried about.I want to address some of the issues this stirred up as a result.  There were many that accused her of not finding a roommate as most people have to do.  This is a little silly because the point of the story was to prove if one person could support herself with a minimum wage job, and they simply can't.  If you need a roommate to survive, then obviously, you're not making enough.Also, it's not always easy finding a roommate that you can either live with comfortably, or that you know will pay their half in full without any problems.  I assure you, I was a victim of having a roommate that stopped paying their half, and it took months to get them to leave.Next, some people foolishly argued that these people should've just gotten a better job.  I think her point was that when someone is satisfied with what they are doing, why should they be spoken down to, labeled as 'unskilled', given the entire burden of keeping the business going, and yet still can not make their bills or live a somewhat luxurious life of being able to eat three times a day when they are working full time?It has actually been proven, that it was easier to live in the sixties (somewhere around there).  If inflation of wages had kept up with the inflation of cost of living, we would all be making 9.50 at minimum wage.  I read an article about it not too long ago.  So technically, in the sixties, minimum wage was 9.50.  I wasn't even surprised.  I had just been talking to a friend about it.  I told her, I make 8 an hour scooping ice cream of all things, and I can't imagine anyone making a dollar less.  I get the feeling minimum wage was supposed to be ten an hour.Anyway, like I said, thank god someone actually wrote a whole book on it.  Even if everyone on earth disagreed with her, at least she helped to spread awareness.  And I do think it was big of her to actually go in there and experience the life for herself.  For those that argued she bought expensive doctor prescribed medicine for her rash, and still drove her car rather than selling it in her time of need, you have to give her some kind of break.  I mean, I'm not asking her to die for me.  She didn't even have to do anything if she didn't feel like it, she could've just read up on it and wrote a research paper like most authors do.The only reason I did give it four stars was because, even though she admits to having misjudged the lower waged working force, she does speak down to her co-workers throughout the book, and I don't think she can help it. She also is extraordinarily racist.  I've never read something by such a racist woman.  Dear god, every second it was, the mexican guy, or the black guy, or the whatever woman.She says things like, how she's worried the hispanics will steal up all the crap jobs before she can get them, or that all the hotels are owned by east indians and she's sure the wife of her apartment probably doesn't know english, is a mail-order bride, and is sad since she's in a country without a temple.  Does she have any idea how ignorant that sounds?  It's racist, plain and simple.  Terrible, terrible racism.I was also disturbed at the chapter dedicated to the drug test she was sure to fail for wal-mart.  Here she was, all high and mighty declaring how much better she was than everyone, how much more refined and sophisticated she really is, and yet she smokes weed.  What kind of fifty year old sophisticated woman can't pass a drug test for wal-mart?  Hypocrite?  I think so.
4	1150243200	Speaking of the wealthy and powerful top 20%, which includes writers who have written best-sellers, Barbara Ehrenreich has been smart and lucky enough during her career as a writer to reach the point where she can leave her cush, upper-middle class existence to forage in the ranks of the working-class poor...in the interest of journalism, of course (and lucrative book sales). Nickel and Dimed is the tale of Ehrenreich's adventures as a waitress in Key West, a Merry Maid in Maine, and a Wal-Mart associate in Minnesota. Beginning with the exclamation that it is no secret that she has money and connections, Ehrenreich lays the ground-rules for her sojourn in poverty. First, she will need start-up money, but not much--something like $1000. Second, she must find adequate housing--no sleeping in the car or leaning against a tree in a public park (as I have seen many people doing in downtown Austin). Third, no starving. If she cannot afford food, then Ehrenreich's plan is to give up and go elsewhere. Fourth, no lying about skills and qualifications on the resume, although Ehrenreich deems it appropriate to leave out the fact that she has a Ph.D in Biology. With those rules in place (and a few others as well), Ehrenreich lands a job as a waitress in Key West. As we would suspect, it is awful, horrible, pays dirt, and puts her in such destitution that if she wants a chance of making rent on her ramshackle trailor, she has to take another job as a waitress. With two jobs and very little money, Ehrenreich burns out from the energy drain and stress. She then heads north to Maine, where she finds employment with a maid franchise. Ehrenreich's job is to clean and mop and dust and swipe the homes of the well-to-do. Again, the scenario quickly deteriorates into one similar to Key West, only this time Ehrenreich has an irritating rash to go along with her irritating boss. In a flash she heads off to Minnesota where she finds work as a zoner in the ladies apparel department at Wal-Mart. It is here that we see the beginning of what might be the long-term effects on character of low-wage work. By the time Ehrenreich is close to the end of her stint with Wal-Mart, her disposition has turned surley and she all too often finds herself cursing customers, coworkers, and the boss under her breath. Very many people who involuntarily live in comparable situations sooth their pain and suffering by spending evenings with a 6-12 pack of cheap beer and whatever mind-numbing garbage happens to be on television. Not Ehrenreich: she spends her nights recording the day's events on her laptop. She is buoyed by the fact that not only does she have a nice, comfy life waiting for her at home in the Keys, but she also has the possibility of a New York Times best-seller flowing out of her brain and through her fingertips. Sometime later, after Ehrenreich's world had returned to normal, a horde of people buy her book, making it a best-seller. People paid $23 for the hardcover--or roughly 4.5 hours of labor at minimum-wage--and $13 for the paperback, which is a steal at 2.5 hours.
3	1149465600	Barbara Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed" is an interesting, if flawed, look at how people who work at minimum wage jobs get by in America. Ehrenreich takes on a series of low paying jobs - waitress, hotel maid, house cleaner, nursing home aid and clerk at Wal-Mart, working at each job for a month while finding out if she has enough money to find a place to live and pay for rent and still have money left over for groceries. The descriptions of each job and the amount of work she does for little pay is eye-opening as is the struggle to find affordable housing. The way management (as well as the general public) treats the workers is also eye opening. The "affordable" housing that Ehrenreich finds is often a squalid hotel room with little security. And with little money left over after paying rent, meals are hard to come by, and forget about being able to afford health insurance.The major flaw in this book is Ehrenreich herself. She's not really poor and it's hard for the reader to emphasize with her because it's clear she'll walk away after only a month in the job (often leaving her coworkers in the lurch).  She also doesn't work consecutive months at a time, instead spreading the jobs over a long period of time, returning to her "real" life in between, so she never goes more than a month at a time having to live paycheck to paycheck. She never gets close to her coworkers, the true poor, which would have added real insight to how the poor really live. When Ehrenreich develops a rash, she's quick to call her own doctor and use her credit card to pay for the prescription, rather than use over the counter medicine. Towards the end, Ehrenreich seems to tire of her assignment and seems contents to live in a series of hotel rooms rather than really look for affordable housing. Her last stint at Wal-Mart seems suspicious - she turns down a higher paying job and then continually complains not only about having to take a drug test but the way management treats the workers. She complains that Wal-Mart pays so little that workers can't afford to buy clothes there, only mentioning in passing that employees get a discount. With all the media attention focussed on Wal-Mart, it's hard to believe her choosing to work there was accidental.In the end however, the book does make a difference, at least to me. I'll think twice before carelessly tossing clothes back on the rack wherever I feel like when I shop and will tip waitresses 20% if not more.
2	1149465600	Nickel and Dimed provides a much needed wake up call for middle class America with regards to the living and working conditions of the poor.  It outlines clearly many of the hurdles the working poor face day to day in the workforce and underscores the difficulties of finding transportation and reasonable shelter.  The author's frontline search for the "hidden economies of the low paid worker" (p 3) was critical to gathering the details of the working poor lifestyle.  The supporting research provided by various publications and reports is credible and relevant.  However, while the subject matter and manner of research are important and compelling, this book falls far short of all it could be due to the author's lack of compassion for the people who made this book possible.From the start, the author seems surprised that there are real people building the infrastructure of our daily lives.  She repeatedly describes members of the low wage work force as "invisible" or "nobody".  She assumes, "It's a lot harder to sort out a human microsystem when you're looking up at it from the bottom and of course, a lot more necessary to do so." (p 194) She doesn't consider that looking down on the microsystem is just as difficult and can be every bit as enriching if you take the time to do so.  To her, they seem "content to occupy their little niche on the sheer cliff face of inequality." (p108) That assertion would be more believable if she included a conversation to that affect.The book is at its most powerful as the author describes the corporate hiring process where people are literally brought in by the dozen.  The process of interviewing and testing, then straight to orientation and the sales floor is sinister in its efficiency.  "There's no intermediate point in the process in which you confront the potential employer as a free agent, entitled to cut her own deal." (p 149) Once on the sales floor, workers are underpaid, monitored by managers and spied on by mystery shoppers.  The employee is encouraged to be almost robotic while the customer is expected to be hyper-indulged.  Does this entry into the work force set such a low expectation of treatment from the employer that it leads to low wage living for a lifetime? Do these working conditions eventually erode what you expect from yourself?The author doesn't set out to help anyone and for the most part, doesn't.  She sets out to prove you can't make it on minimum wage jobs and proves it.  It was a bold and at times, courageous act for the author to leave her comfort zone and the life she knew to research making ends meet at the poverty line.  However, her project was undermined by the sensationalized descriptions of her coworkers ("gray", "gaunt", "vacant") the debasement of their relationships and the jobs they perform, her careless use of serious terms such as "caste" and "untouchable", and the numerous overstatements throughout the book.  Her use of exaggerated language also undercuts her credibility as an "investigative journalist" as does the notable absence of clear timelines.The point of the book was clearly, "Can I make it?", but leaving the relevant psychological issues of the low wage worker unexplored seems like a missed opportunity.  Had she explored their attitudes toward the hiring process, working conditions, etc. in addition to their living and working conditions, there would be much more information on how to proceed.  By choosing not to delve further into the feelings of her coworkers and making assumptions instead, this book is worth half of what it could have been.
5	1149033600	Ehrenreich gives a real life description of what it is like to live on minimum wage. Long before Hurricane Katrina she exposed the poverty that still exists in this country. It would be interesting to see what differences Ehrenreich would notice today if she were to undergo the same experiment.  Every American should read this book to learn what it is like to toil as an unskilled laborer in the American economy. Ehrenreich is especially courageous for putting herself through this experience. It is one thing to write about an experience and it is another to live through it.
4	1148860800	Like many other reviewers, I found "Nickel and Dimed" to be well-written.  Ehrenreich's engaging and humorous style, documented with facts, made the book difficult to put down.  The book tells some uncomfortable truths about life in the low-wage workforce.  Ehrenreich worked as a waitress, a house cleaner, a motel cleaner, a nursing home assistant and at Walmart.  The wages paid at most of these very physically-demanding jobs are simply insufficient to cover living expenses.The question, in my mind, is this: given the admitted shortage of workers at the time this book was written, why didn't wages rise?  It is as if the law of supply and demand simply stopped working.  Part of the answer, according to Ehrenreich, is that the lack of transportation and the need to come up with a deposit for rental housing prevent the working poor from moving nearer to and taking better jobs.  Another factor cited by Ehrenreich is management's "co-optative power" -- intimidating workers by the use of personality tests and drug tests, enforcing rules against "gossip" or even "talking" (especially about wages), or penalizing those who attempt to unionize.  As Ehrenreich states: "If you are treated as an untrustworthy person -- a potential slacker, drug addict, or thief -- you may begin to feel less trustworthy yourself.  If you are constantly reminded of your lowly position in the social hierarchy, whether by individual managers or by a plethora of impersonal rules, you begin to accept that unfortunate status."  Walmart comes across in Ehrenreich's telling as a particularly exploitative place to work, despite its attempt to create Stepfordlike employees doing the Walmart cheer.An important issue raised by "Nickel and Dimed" is the lack of affordable housing.  Many of the working poor in this book stay in motels (and wind up paying more per month than an apartment would cost) because they cannot save up the rent + security deposit to move to a rental unit.  Another significant issue is the government's calculation of the poverty level, which is tied to the relatively stable price of food, rather than to the skyrocketing cost of housing.The problem with this book has been cited by others.  Ehrenreich is a visitor to this scene, something like a foreign correspondent who flies into an unknown country and starts reporting before understanding the terrain.  As many reviewers have pointed out, Ehrenreich's life was artificial:  most working poor do not pick up and move to another state each month, they live near family and rely on that web of relationships; most do not have cars; most share apartments.  (Moreover, like many foreign correspondents, Ehrenreich parachutes in with pre-conceived ideas which she is looking to confirm, rather than with an open mind.  The actual working poor described here seem to be more positive about their situations than Ehrenreich is, in part because they believe that they will work themselves into the middle class or higher.  Ehrenreich's own father apparently did just that.)Despite these flaws, "Nickel and Dimed" raises many thought-provoking issues and is definitely worth your time and attention.
4	1148860800	Barbara Ehrenreich's magnum opus, "Nickel and Dimed" is a funny, realistic, and revealing look at poverty and unskilled wage laborers in the United States. Ehrenreich, curious as to how people, especially single mothers, can make a living on minimum wage jobs, decided to go undercover to find out. Testing out the unskilled labor markets in Florida, Maine, and Minnesota, Ehrenreich works as a waitress, housekeeper, and eventually Wal-mart associate during her quest to uncover how people can exist on such low wages.Ehrenreich's work provides details and insights that most middle-class people hope never to experience first-hand. Ehrenreich is honest in the presentation of her research. She lists what resources she utilized that gave her an unfair advantage, and she also shares stories that make the average unskilled laborer real to the reader.I highly recommend this groundbreaking work!
5	1148601600	A friend had this book at her house, and several Thanksgiving weekends ago I picked it up and couldn't put it down.  I was a bit anti-social that weekend.  This book is truly eye-opening, and has pushed me over the edge to get actively involved in anti-poverty activities.  I've since bought a copy of my own and have lent it to others.  I most heartily recommend this book.
1	1148428800	The economic part of this book was not even worth exploring -everybody knows it's really a struggle to get by on low wagejobs.  Her descriptions of how demoralizing it is to be treatedlike a non-entity by wealthy people were more interesting,however, she seems to have really missed the point, because itwas clear throughout the book that she truly considered hercoworkers beneath her.  She even considered her identity as"Barb" at Walmart to be an inferior person to "Barbara" - hermore affluent self.
5	1148169600	Barbara Ehrenreich did a brave thing in doing her own research about what it is really like to try to find and maintain gainful employment for many in our society newly on the job market.  She took jobs in food service, at Wal Mart, as a maid, and found her situation became increasingly worse.This is a sobering study of what millions go through, without health insurance or other benefits, trying to eke it out in minimum wage and low-end work, with employers who treat them with no dignity or respect.Ehrenreich is a very good writer, and does an excellent job of laying out the facts, in the tradition of Upton Sinclair and Jacob Riis.
2	1147564800	Barbara Ehrenreich seems to have missed the point of her own research.  Her proposed plan was to move to a new city with a small amount of capitol, find a minimum wage job and a place to live and try to make ends meet.  She was searching for insight into the working poor who represent a large segment of American workers, made larger since welfare reform.  She had the opportunity to be their spokesperson, but instead she was too busy complaining about her own discomfort.For starters, Ms. Ehrenreich doesn't give up her health insurance or car during this entire experiment.  In fact, at one job she develops an itchy rash and instead of doing what the working poor who have no health insurance would do - go the the nearest drug store and buy something OTC and hope for the best - she calls her personal out-of-state dermatologist for a prescription so she is itch-free in a matter of days.  Barb, honey, that's not how it works for people without health insurance!  They work sick, uncomfortable, injured and even itchy.  Really.She also had the advantage of a car, which she used to drive to multiple employers during the first few days of a new job hunt, filling out applications, having interviews and hunting for an apartment.  A car is a luxury many working poor don't have, so they are not able to visit 10 or more potential employers on a single day to put in applications and have interviews like she did.  The real working poor use public transportation, bicycles or shoe leather.  If the job location or housing is more than a mile from a public transportation route, it's off the radar for many people.  I wish Barb had tried this at one of her test cities so that she could see how inconvenient, frustrating and limiting public transportation can be.She seemed to have her pick of jobs at every location, finding work was never a problem, and she berates those who say it is.  However, she refused to work more than an 8 hour shift, and complained that at one job she had to go 2 1/2 hours without a break and she didn't think she could make it.  Oh gosh, the horror!  Would love to see her do farm work, or road work.There is a lot of complaining about the cost of rent increasing faster than the minimum wage scale.  This is true, and an excellent point.  She failed at all of her minimum wage locations because the cost of housing broke her bank at the end of the month.  But never once did she consider having a roommate.  That would have cut her expenses by 50%!  And when she got to the end of the second week in Minneapolis without a paycheck and without a reasonably priced room, it never occurred to her to sell her car.  Barb may have been working with the poor, but she just didn't get it.I was offended by her inappropriate sarcasm and her obsession with ethnicity - describing every single person she saw or met by race FIRST.  But I was most offended by her not understanding that people come in a vast range of "normal."  There are many people working the jobs she worked who just aren't capable of working as a manager or professional writer and never will be.  They have found employers who respect their abilities and they take great pride in their work.  The same work that Barbara had such contempt for.  In fact, while working at Wal-Mart she describes her work by saying, "I could be a deaf-mute...autism might be a definite advantage."  Really, she wrote that, real sensitive, huh?She also seems to think that everyone who is lower middle class is fat, and that fat people are to be disrespected.  She writes, "Everyone knows that the lower middle class are tragically burdened by the residues of decades of potato chips and french toast sticks."  She refers to Wal-Mart customers as "wide-bodies" and fears if she's standing in the wrong place at the wrong moment she might be crushed by one.She laments over and over, "Why don't they get out of these jobs, find something better, move up in the world?"  Just maybe, Barb, some of these employees are already working up to their abilities, are proud of the fact that they have jobs, and a social circle at work of people who respect them.Her true colors show when she walks out on, quits without notice, and even leaves other employees the responsibility of returning her uniforms in every single location.  She has no thought for the workers she left short handed, or the bosses who were left under staffed.  She might write that her coworkers are important, and she might have done some kind things for them, but she was an irresponsible and thoughtless employee.I give this book two stars instead of one because it is well-written.  It is the content that I object to.  Barb might write about the lower middle class, but she surely does not understand what it means to live lower middle class.  She never really got it.  There are many better books on the plight of the working poor listed on this amazon page and in many of the other reviews.
3	1147305600	I had to read this book for a sociology course in college.While I appreciate Barbara Ehrenreich's decision to undertake this challenge, and admire that she did her best to live a life similar in many ways to America's lower class, she also failed in two major ways:1 - She always maintained her distance from the true "poor" people, both emotionally and mentally.  She physically did what they did.  She did her best to befriend them, but instead of committing 100% she instead chose to always keep a mental seperation that the real her is really something bigger and better.2 - She offers NO solutions.  She vividly recounts her experiences, and says that working people deserve better.  WHAT do they deserve?  WHAT would you offer to our society, our government, now that you have seen this "darker side"?Obviously, it is not so rare for people to have these jobs.  Has Barbara been spoiled all her life?  Is she a slightly smarter Paris Hilton?It is not so rare for the majority of Americans to have done blue-collar work themselves, and understand the physical side effects.  Perhaps they are not living in cars, but perhaps I would think that most people would at least have had a co-worker, family member, classmate at some point in their lives that had similarities to the people Barbara encounters.This book should serve as a reminder of a platform for change, which I think at the time it was published at least caused a commotion (to all the super-spoiled in our nation who were blissfully unaware???).Nothing in this book is original.  There may be laws in effect, but at least Barbara had one thing right:  many  independent business owners do what they want, and continue to exploit people who can't afford to demand their rights.  And yes, it is very, very hard, especially when you're older body can't manage to stand and carry things for 16 hours a day.
1	1146096000	While there are many legitimate issues regarding working poor, this author completely ignores the personal responsibility of many people for making bad decisions and the consequences of those decisions.  This book is nearly pure Marist drivel, all poor are the result of being taken advantage of by others. Nothing is said about people who make no effort whatsoever to learn a skill or take a chance.  Given the many opportunities available in this country and the author's deliberate refusal to discuss these issues, the book is a waste but will be loved by the far left.
4	1145404800	In Nickel and Dimed, Barbara Ehrenreich sees life from the other side of the fence by working low-wage jobs and attempting to survive on the income she generates.  Although her tactics are imperfect, her insights into the lives of the working poor cannot be ignored.Ehrenreich spends a month in each location: Key West, Florida, Maine, and Minnesota.  In each location, she works a different low wage job: waitress, maid, and Wal-Mart worker.  The jobs all pay more than minimum wage, yet she still struggles to make ends meet.  Part of this is due to her tactics; since she is only planning to stay in the short-term, she spends most of the time living in hotels, which is, of course, quite expensive and dooms her experiment to failure from the start.  I think a better choice would be to attempt to live this way for a year in a single location; it would more closely mirror the efforts of the working poor.Despite its flaws, the book does provide valid observations of the lives of the working poor, particularly in dispelling the myths that the poor are where they are because of laziness.  Some of the most interesting parts of the book are the Ehrenreich's revelations about her co-workers.  Ehrenreich describes her counterparts as tirelessly dedicated to their jobs, even at the expense of their own health.  And that's another thing--jobs which purport to pay less because they are "unskilled" are actually quite physically demanding.  Ehrenreich rarely if ever is given a chance to sit, even if there is nothing to do.  As a maid, the constant stooping and bending is quite straining, as well as being forced to carry a vacuum cleaner on her back in the name of efficiency.  Although Ehreneich tries to encourage her co-workers to revolt and form a union, few of them seem interested.  Why?  All of them continue to buy into the American dream--that if they continue working hard, someday they will have what their rich customers have.  As Ehrenreich demonstrates, though, upward mobility with a wage of only $6.50 an hour is near impossible, especially if you have a family to support.In addition to humanizing the poor, whom we often have a tendency to ignore, Ehrenreich also demonstrates the failings of our welfare system.  Several times during her journey, she applies for assistance.  She usually gets the runaround, and it takes miles of red tape and waiting before minimal help materializes.  Also, federal poverty levels are based on the cost of food, which has hardly risen in price in the past thirty years, unlike the costs of housing, energy, and medical care.  What an outdated system!Regardless of whether you agree with Ehrenreich's political take on poverty, everyone should read this book, if only to develop a more sympathetic attitude toward service industry employees that we deal with on a daily basis.
3	1145318400	I was very excited about this "experiment" and was looking forward to its insights. What I found were her diary entries revealing her self-absorption and lack of imagination and resourcefulness. Sadly, she clings to her PhD as if it were a superhero outfit hidden underneath her waitress uniform and then she is incredulous when people struggling for everyday things are not impressed. We read painful accounts of mistakes and her inability to learn from them. I was frustrated by her repeated mistakes. The strongest moments of the book were her introspections and the transformations she observed when under stress. They were heartfelt and honest.This book gives little insight into the American Poor, other than illustrating their inability to access resources that are nearly invisible. We already know their work is indispensible and back breaking and they are treated with great disrespect.I lived her "experiment" personally twice. Once as a youth when I moved to California with $70 and again at nearly forty I lost my house and business due to the dotcom bust and a divorce. I started with nothing four years ago in one of the most expensive US cities during a recession. I started over not with my education, but invention and resourcefulness. Let's say I faired far better than she.
2	1145232000	While reading Nickel and Dimed I found myself getting bored throughout many of the chapters.  Ehrenreich seemed to get off of topic even though her book was supposed to be on low-wage jobs and the working poor in America.  There were many times when Ehrenreich used racism, criticism, and an overall rudeness towards the people involved in her project.  The footnotes were really good, but Ehrenreich should have focused all of her attention on her project.  Though, her writing was very descriptive, she made herself seem very contradictive and very unpleasant at times.  I do not believe that Ehrenreich was very informative when referring to the main topic of her book.
2	1144972800	As a card-carrying liberal, I am very concerned about the pervasiveness of poverty in the U.S. and was eager to read this book.  However, Ehrenreich's sanctimonious, condescending, self-satisfied writing does a disservice to the issue.  Her tone was so self-righteous and smug that after 5-6 chapters I put down the book in disgust.  Save your money.  Borrow the book from the library if you feel that you really must attempt to read it and then brace yourself.
2	1144886400	I believe you can appreciate the value of someone's work by the insight it provides you.  In this book, Barbara Ehrenreich, Ph.D. strategically attempts to maneuver through the dark and lonely word of the blue-collar man and woman.  In her best case scenario, Barbara, with "every advantage that ethnicity, education, health and motivation can confer attempting, in a time of exuberant prosperity, tries to survive in the economy's lower depths." (p.10)  With a little money to help her on her way, she sets off to the most radiant parts of Maine and Minnesota, carefully choosing the employment on which she will embark.  With sharp dialogue and erudite lexicology, she guides us valiantly through the tolerable and innocuous professions of the plebeian working class.I was hoping to find gritty truth and possibly a few instances of useful penny-pinching; perhaps a sort of clue-finding manual which would enable someone to navigate through the unknown.Nonetheless, Barbara does contribute compelling insight with her use of meticulous annotations, which assist the reader in recognizing the plight of various people through her own tribulations.  On numerous occasions, she demonstrates how tedious and demanding a job can be when you toil your life away (working eight hours a day) and are compensated with the bare minimum.  She expresses frustration with society's lack of discourse and concern for hot button issues such as poverty, racism, global warming, income inequality and the need for a hike in minimum wage.Now for the real review.  To enjoy Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed, keep an open mind.  If you take pleasure in the occasional narrative, this is at best a satisfying read.  For those of you who relish in conquest and indisputable accomplishment, your time would be better spent.She could not have possibly experienced what a person of low income goes through on a day to month to year basis.  This is obviously from the perspective of someone who did not care to know or discover the meaning of the word "struggle."
4	1144886400	For anyone who wants a look into the plight of an increasingly large percentage of Americans - the "working poor" - this book offers a superb introduction.  It is full of empathy, humor, and acute observation by experience, in other words, good old fashioned reporting.What Ehrenriech did was to start up in low-paying jobs, trying to make it for a number of months while recording her experiences in a diary.  So the story is highly personal, with the characters she meets and their stories as well.  While the book was at times not as dense as I would have hoped - there is very little analysis except at the end, which makes many of her observation appear as off-the-cuff anecdotes in a flowing narrative - what she achieves is exceptionally valuable.  From my upper middle class perch, I now have some idea of what the people serving us in stores and restaurants experience.  It is not a pretty picture and frankly I now feel ashamed at some of my behavior in "getting short" with slow service, etc.  This is a comment on my own obtuseness, of course, but it really got me to think.Beyond that personal realization, Ehrenreich is unearthing some very disturbing trends in the American economy.  In a way, she portrays with great clarity what the "race to the bottom" means for the people stuck in it.  They must accept poverty-level living standards in the name of providing more upper class people with cheap goods and services.  This means they do not have enough to eat, are often in pain and unable to get treatment for work-related injuries, and cannot find affordable housing.  Indeed, because they are so powerless, they often get ripped off and pay more for such things as weekly rents - becuase they cannot save enough for a deposit of say $1000, they must pay higher rents in the immediate term!  While I had some vague notion of such things, this book brought this home to me in ways that I could not ignore.But Ehrenreich also explores how this powerlessness effects the self esteem of the people who suffer it:  they expect less, feel they don't deserve better (by such action as joining a union), and submit to humiliations and intrusions into very personal issues on a daily basis.  This demonstrates how class can  be a psychological phenomenon that is self-sustaining.Most disturbing to me, as a writer on economics, is what this implies about how an increasing number of businesses are now based on this kind of exploitation:  they pay dirt cheap, so can charge lower prices and hence raise the living standards of the wealthy.  Indeed, this is part of the "productivity revolution" we economists love to extoll, but it is the underside:  you can increase output by technical innovation, but also by making people work harder and longer without paying them more.  That is what is happening here, and it is unsustainable in the long term.  Not only will there be social upheaval because of this trend, but the costs in terms of public services for the injured and displaced will surely increase, further tearing the social fabric.  In other words, it is a giant step backward - and I say this as a market-respecting conservative.Ehrenreich does have a good wrapup chapter, if a bit too succinct for me.  Nonetheless, her book is a very powerful challenge to the notions of the "chattering classes" to which I belong.  We write glibly about welfare reform and "working hard" as if improvements in living standards are part of a near-sacred chain of being for the abtracted homo economicus.  Ehrenreich gets us to question this self-satisfied pontification in a healthy way, in particular by showing how little we understand about those is different economic classes.Finally, Ehrenreich is a fun writer.  The book is peppered with hilarious observations and sarcasm, truly original in expression and style.  In one section, because of a "chemical indiscretion" with her partner, she descirbes how she beat the drug-testing system for potat Wal-Mart by drinking inordinate quantities of water.  It made a point, but also got me to laugh.  This is a rare talent in my opinion and a delight.Recommended.  Ehrenreich has produced a provocative book that will make us think.  It is a key to understanding the "Wal-Mart Effect".
5	1144627200	What Barbara describes is believable and authentic,coming from someone who has been there and done that!In fact, she downplays how brutal some of these employers really are!Companies like Walmart and Lowes and Home Depot prohibit their employees from talking with the press so accurate accountings of what goes on cannot be made. All too often employees in such establishments are given such workloads that it can seldom be done in a proper way, yet employees are paid near poverty level wages and made to fail to boot. Unions fail such employees as do our labor laws, never mind the ethical and humanistic considerations.Barbara also does not do justice to how political such companies are: "giving" to the community in seemingly compassionate gestures while treating their employees like sub-citizens. A union employee who shops at say a Lowes or Home Depot would never put up with the treatment received by such employees-- and yet those employees working for low pay pass savings along to their union brothers and sisters.Barbara also does not touch on the various sophisticated methods by which individuals are discriminated against or harassed in the workplace. The bigger the company, the more sophisticated this becomes. And not to forget that most of the employers she decribes in this book prey on vulnerable workers due to market conditions or personal circumstances which limit their employment opportunities.
2	1144627200	All in all I belive that this book has brought light to the plight of the working poor. However, I do believe that this story could be told better by someone who has actually lived the life of a minimum wage worker. If the author had spent less time with her personal conversations and complaints of the working conditions she might have made this a more effective tool for people to use to help change the lives of many Americans.
1	1144281600	This is a horrible book.  She obviously knew what she wanted to say beforehand and did the 'research' because she had to.  She goes into the situations with half a heart and is completely unwilling to see them through until the end. She is basically taking advantage of the situation of people struggling to survive in order to get a best seller based on her reputation and her publishing company's ability to advertise.  Read The Working Poor instead.  It gives a much better anaylsis of the situation and is built on years of research and relationships.
1	1144195200	Nickel and Dimed may be only 230 pages, but at times it feels like it will never end.  Ehrenreich may be the most insulting and prejudiced person I have ever read.  She manages to insult every sex, race, and social class.  If you are in the mood for a wealthy woman's jaded views on life in the poor lane(yea, like a month is anything like real life), go ahead and pick this book up.  If you are looking for actual information on how the poor survive, save yourself $13.00 because you won't find it in this book!!
3	1144195200	This was the first Barbara Ehrenrich book I read, and it will probably be the last. I am concerned about matters relating to America's working poor and was drawn to the book because I thought it might provide some insight about how people really can live on the income low-wage jobs provide. The last time I worked a job that came close to minimum wage was a number of years ago, and back then I was in college and had campus housing, student loans etc. as a backup. There are many people in the U.S. trying to subsist on low wages, and I thought maybe this book would help me understand what they're going through and what they need to better their situations, so that I can use that information in my own advocacy.Instead, I found that this book is mainly about Ms. Ehrenrich and her prejudices, insecurities, and snap judgements about people. Other reviewers have said the same things, but my biggest problems with the book were:- The whining. This woman whines about everything. The work is physically hard. She's tired at the end of the day and her clothes smell bad. She doesn't sleep well because she's petrified of someone breaking into her room and stealing her laptop. She gets a skin rash and it itches, so she calls her "personal dermatologist" (must be nice to have such a thing) and gets help. Waaah, waaah, waaah. I really wished she had spent more time talking about social impacts of working poverty, or the experiences of the people she worked with who were TRULY poor, than whining about her own discomfort.- The fact that she regularly took "breaks" from her experiment back to her old life, and she continued to access financial and other resources during the experiment. That's not a luxury the real working poor have - to just step away from their life whenever the going gets tough. The fact that she did seriously undermined her experiment.- The fact that she just doesn't seem interested in working that hard, or doing things that may be unpleasant. I think this, more than anything else, showed Ehrenrich's true colors as a privileged middle-aged woman who has very little capacity to understand the very people she's writing about. She's shocked at how dirty the kitchens where she works are, and how the smells of the restaurant "cling" to her when she gets home. She gets unreasonably angry when patients in a dementia unit throw food at her (hello, the patients have DEMENTIA, they aren't doing it on purpose). Cleaning houses is nasty because you have to deal with cleaning up people's body hair and bodily waste. Her shifts at Wal-Mart and her job cleaning houses make her tired because she's on her feet so much, and she expresses surprise, because after all, she works out and is in good shape! There were many times during the reading of this book that I wanted to roll my eyes at Ehrenrich's privileged cluelessness. Yes, work is not always easy or fun. What a revelation! You get the sense that not only does Ehrenrich want employees to be paid more for their work, but wants the work these people do to be clean, pleasant, involve no bad smells, and be psychologically rewarding at all times also. Sorry, but the world does not work like that. Ehrenrich works as an academic and author and so it's no surprise she's been shielded from the harsh realities of life, but the whining and hand-wringing she did over her 'dirty jobs' was really over the top, if you ask me.Ultimately I felt the book did a poor job of getting Ehrenrich's point across. What I took away from the book is "poor people have to work nasty, stinky jobs that are awful. Oh, and by the way, they don't get paid enough." As another reviewer mentioned, civilizations are built on the backs of unskilled, low-wage workers, but the U.S. has evolved to the point where we should be able to provide at least a living wage and health care to everyone and bear the costs of those things. But that's not Ehrenrich's issue. She seems indignant about the fact that people have to serve food or clean houses or stock retail shelves AT ALL and seems to believe humans should not be subjected to such indignities. What Ehrenrich would have those people do for money instead, I am not sure, as we can't all teach in private colleges and write books for a living. There will always be services that need to be performed and a need for service workers, and many times the same people working service jobs are the same people CONSUMING services from other service workers, something that Ehrenrich completely ignores - in her world, only overprivileged yuppies or fat white people consume services like restaurant food or discount store clothing. Ehrenrich would have done better if she cut the whining in this book in half and focused more on the economic realities of the poor. As it stands, she just ends up reinforcing the conservative idea of "the liberal in the ivory tower" and does little to advance concerns about the plight of America's working poor.
4	1143504000	My own experience has had some parallels:  My day job is in lower management at a Fortune 500 company, where I make really good money.  My part time jobs have included Saturdays as a cleaner at an apartment complex (which, surprisingly, I did not mind doing) and, later, working part time as a cashier at WM (somehow, I did not really mind that too much, either).  One difference was that Barbara Ehrenreich did this for a social experiment, while I was doing it strictly for the money.  Like Ms Ehrenreich, I did find that people wanted to look down on you when you are doing some "menial" job, never mind that you are doing it very well.  And the employers do not really care; as long as you do not cause them any problems, they are indifferent.  It did surprise that at WM, which had an intense, 7 hour introduction day, the policies they were so careful to explain were not visible so much in the day-to-day world.  But, just the same, I had a good experience there and, face it:  WM is just what WM is.  Like it or not like it, WM just is.Anyway, I greatly enjoyed this book, and I appreciated Barbara Ehrenreich's social comments.
1	1142985600	I can't possibly say enough horrible things about this book.  Ms. Ehrenreich is without question the most insidious, intellectually dishonest, hate-filled, bitter human I have ever come across.  I ran out of little sticky-page-markers while reading, trying to tag her continual, despicable moral incongruities.A college student would love it.  Someone who has actually created wealth and opportunity for a community or people would not.  The book proceeds not only on a false premise...  that would be understandable.  The Ehrenreich-Female has not only written under a preconception, but worse, an insidious agenda:  Nobody should be allowed to enjoy wealth but her, and all employers use piles of the decaying, dead bodies of righteous, selfless, well-meaning, crucified employees to climb to the top.She didn't set out to see if it could be done;  she set out to prove that it couldn't.  Then she reported her "Findings".  Pure evil.  She should be forced to hire a few of these "victims" for a week or two and then report on the scene from the other side.  No clue.  Hell...  she should be forced to hire HERSELF for a week.  She would be fired in record time.  I don't understand how anyone of sincere honesty, could be hoodwinked by her sad, obvious attempt to dismantle our entire system of free enterprise and opportunity.
4	1142640000	I read this book when it was first published, and I recently read it again after getting my law degree. I felt very different about it the second time around. Even though I consider myself a moderate liberal, the author's left-wing views struck me as extreme. I don't think that it's possible to create an entirely classless society, as the author seems to suggest. Communism didn't work. It didn't work because human beings fill a wide range of skill and intelligence levels, and some people are more motivated than others. However, I think the author makes some good points about the lack of affordable housing. I would add that the lack of affordable higher education adds to the plight of the working poor.The author is a talented storyteller, but her style is a little cutesy for me. Also the Christian-bashing was entirely unnecessary. The author really undermined her credibility by making fun of the tent revival, and by smoking pot and then complaining about having to pass a drug test. Overall, though, I really enjoyed reading about her experiences. I definitely see cashiers, Wal-mart workers, and maids in a different light. I wonder about their lives, and if they are doing better or worse than Ms. Ehrenreich did. I agree with her that the minimum wage should be higher, but I don't think an entirely classless society is feasible. For a more even-handed discussion of the subject, I recommend "The Working Poor: Invisible in America."P.S. All of you calling this book "dribble," the word is "DRIVEL"!!!!
1	1142467200	I purchased this book as I feel there has become a wider disparity between rich and poor. I was also impressed by the author's dedication to living the life of the poor.Half way through the book it became very evident this author had an agenda and contiuned to get her ideology in front of the facts. The book was very one dimensional failing to address how immigration is suppressing entry level wages, what impact education has and what choices these people made that put them in this situation.I found it ironic Ehrenreich rated herself a B+ employee when she was always bad mouthing the company and or supervisor and never gave the courtesy of notice of the jobs she left.I would suggest she writes her next book on being a business person who has invested their life savings in a business and is dependent on employee that fail to show up or have an attitude like our author.
5	1142294400	I needed to read this book.  I'm at a place in my life now where I'm living "comforatably", but it wasn't always like this for me.  Ehrenreich took me back to what it was like living (barely) pay check to pay check without healthcare. And, it can be that way again for me, for anyone.  This book calls us all to work for social justice and demand healthcare reform.  Life is HARD, but it's even harder when you're trying to make a living earning the minimum wage.  F' feeling sympathy or pity for the Walmart workers--stop shopping at Walmart!  Stop helping the rich profit off of others' pain and suffering.  Read this book, get mad, do something.
5	1142208000	It should be noted that this book is not, nor does it claim to be, a definitive and expansive report on the plight of the working poor.  It functions as a personal memoir and a slice-of-life, an undercover view of a life that is intentionally made invisible to most members of the middle-to-upper classes.And the view it offers is harrowing.Ehrenreich allows herself a safety net not available to many of the places she lives among, including a car and a way out if things become threatening to her basic safety.  That despite these allowances she finds it difficult to survive causes one to truly wonder about those who, for example, have to rely on systems of public transportation.Her co-workers live in hotels and trailers, unable to make the first and last month plus deposit that would allow them to move into more cost-efficient, safe, and comfortable housing on their hand-to-mouth wages.  This effects everything else in their lives:  how close they are able to live to their workplaces is dictated by economy, which in turn effects the time and cost of their commute and how much sleep they can often expect to get in a night.  The lack of a stove or refrigerator means they lack nutritious food and are forced to live on overpriced fast foods and processed foods, often on the edge of starvation.Yes, Ehrenreich is an educated liberal.  No, she doesn't miraculously come up with easy solutions.  Given the material, she shouldn't have to apologize to anyone with a conservative bias for either of these facts.  The information she gives has not been covered at this level and in this detail anywhere else, and that alone is commendable.  "Nickel & Dimed" allows the realities of the invisible people who handle our food, clean our homes, and ring up our purchases to be brought to the attention of those who might want to look away.
4	1142121600	I flew through this book, loved every minute of reading it.  If you ever wondered what it would be like to live off a minimum wage job, this is the book to read.  Ehrenreich's style of writing was engaging and she really captures the drawbacks of  what many of these low-paid workers feel and have to live through everday.  I would highly reccommend this book.
4	1142121600	This book was very captivating. The book really gave me a perspective of how the low wage workers have to live their lives everyday. To have to go to a job that you basically hate and to only get minimum wage for your long hard worked hours does not seem like something to look forward to. The author was very descriptive in her writing and really gave you a feel for what the various places looked like and how the environment that she had to work in must have been. She really gave you the experience first hand. I never really realized how the lower paid working class lived and how they had to pay for their apartment's right out of their pay check and barely have enough money to eat. Throughout her expedition, she had to endure the real aspects of living on the minimum wage income and having to live in a not so decent apartment with hardly enough money to pay for food and other expenses she came across. Seeing this made me rethink the lives of many Americans who also have to live this way. I never really realized what went on behind the scenes of many businesses. This was an excellent book and I'm so glad that I had the privilege to read it.
4	1141776000	I thought that this book was an good book filled with adventure and struggle of the low wage work force.  This book really made me think about how lucky I am to have a nice home and parents with decent paying jobs.  This book also helped me think more of the people that are struggling to just get food and essential resources for them and their families.  I realized, by reading this book, I was very fortunate that I don't have to be going through the struggle of the low-wage work force.  I really like how Barbara Ehrenreich shows the readers of this book, how the low wage workforce really is.  I had no idea that a lot of people were working at low-wage jobs, struggling to make the money for basic necessities.  By Ehrenreich going "undercover" and working at low-wage jobs, she makes the reader seem like they are really there, delivering the next plate of pancakes to the costumers whiles Ehrenreich is telling her story to them.  I liked this book because it put you in the low wage workforce and showed you how difficult it really is to survive in the low-wage work force, even just finding a job and the right, affordable housing, can be extremely difficult to do in America today.
5	1141603200	"I have been discovering a great truth about low-wage work and probably a lot about medium-wage work, too -  that nothing happens, or rather the same thing always happens, which amounts, day after day, to nothing."  - Barbara Ehrenreich"I grew up hearing over and over ... 'Work hard and you'll get ahead' ... No one ever said that you could work hard - harder than you ever thought possible - and still find yourself sinking ever down into poverty and debt." - Barbara EhrenreichIf you're a middle or upper-income reader, then NICKEL AND DIMED is a vicarious journey to the other side of the wage earning tracks. Author Barbara Ehrenreich describes her 2-year self-immersion in several minimum-wage jobs for the purpose of writing this book. She mostly concentrates on three: waiting tables in Florida at a restaurant belonging to a nationally popular chain, e.g. Denny's, cleaning homes in Maine with The Maids, and sorting clothes in Minnesota on the sales floor of that favorite media whipping boy, Wal-Mart. Indeed, a good portion of Barbara's narrative, rightly or wrongly, sounds like a Wal-Mart bash.NICKEL AND DIMED is a lucid, eye-opening, and sympathetic account of the plight facing those millions that earn $7-$9/hour, or less, and still find themselves crushed by inflation and shrinkage of the nation-wide availability of affordable housing. According to Ehrenreich, it's the latter, and not the cost of food, and which is ironically driven by an increase in prosperity for the middle and upper classes, that's driving the working poor to greater levels of desperation. In the last paragraph of the book, the author predicts social revolution.A criticism of Barbara's approach might be that it was an artificial construct inasmuch as she always had the safety net of her middle-class "real life" to fall back on when in extremis - that she never had to truly experience the outer edges of deprivation and resigned hopelessness. However, the alternative to her book would be one actually written by a minimum-wage earner - and which of those has the time and access to a publisher. No, I give Ehrenreich due kudos for her research and its result.After reading NICKEL AND DIMED, I'll not view the clothing department of my favorite consumer superstore in the same way ever again, I'll be tempted to tip my restaurant server 20% instead of the minimum 15%, and I'll be more generous to our independent housecleaner at Christmas. Being an hourly employee myself, albeit a well-compensated one, I'm also reminded of the sobering truth:"... when you start selling your time by the hour ... what you're actually selling is your life."
3	1141344000	I inter-library loaned this book (couldn't afford to buy it) and when I returned it the librarian was commenting on it being "an eye-opener" even as I was commenting that "it was too close for comfort".  I was stunned to realize that she wasn't aware of my type of daily realities.Much of the book was a big "duh" to us as we have been living these realities for 23 years.  It was depressing also to hear one declare it a fruitless struggle.One review acknowledged this as a liberal interpretation and wondered about a conservative view.  We are basically conservative and this is my take on living in the realm of nickles, dimes and pennies.It is very wearing and without our eternal/religious perspective it would be too much to shoulder day in and day out.  It is easy to get bitter towards those who minimize our struggle and assume that, "of course, you'll want to come, it's only $5.00 (or $10, or $20)" - like that is affordable!Background - we are family of 7, two parents and 5 children ranging from 9 - 20.  My husband works fulltime usually averaging about $8 an hour. We don't have insurance, except the legally required car insurance.  We have one car, an aging 1991 Previa, which has various bashes and mechanical problems we haven't the money to fix.  We are currently living in a old 2 bedroom house that has an attic of sorts.  It's all we can afford and, with creative arrangements, we fit. It is 80 miles from where my husband works because any housing closer is too expensive and this work pays more than we usually get - about $3/hr more than what we can get closer.  So, during the week he stays at work, sleeping in the car,and comes home for his days off. In the winter it regularly gets to 25 below there. I don't work because we are committed to home schooling our children and to me being there.  Home schooling saves money is some ways and costs in other ways.  It is much easier when you can afford to buy the textbooks.  We don't have a doctor or dentist, generally.  We've learned to approach problems alternatively, partly due to cost.The liberal in this position looks to the government for the solution - hence all of her discussions about politics.  This was interesting and we welcome any help that comes this way as long as it is truly help.The conservative looks to themselves, their families and their churches.  We have been blessed greatly by both of our families (sometimes by loans and sometimes by gifts) and our church.  This has enabled us to keep our car, get out of debt (debt created to just get by), get heat, and manage the deposits needed to rent.  The earned income credit has also greatly helped.  It has also helped to be grateful for what we do have - which sometimes is difficult, but always worth it.  It has also been good to unplug the TV, which breds "wanta -haves" in us. Love videos and occasional cheap theater movies. Thrift stores are vital, as is shopping grocery sales in bulk.  We also eat very simply without a lot of meat or fruit.  Eating out, as she does a lot, is rare.Her experiment, to us, is flawed by how she set it up.  To have a car and not factor in all those costs is unrealistic.  As is not factoring in medical needs.  We have family who are living scrapping lives due to huge medical expenses.  And she was only single, what of the families that live like this?  Also another angle unexplored is the role of credit cards - which are often used to fill the gaps.  Then the weight of debt is added to the burdens compounding all calculations and options.I'm glad this book is an eye-opener for the rest of the world inspite of it's flaws.  Perhaps it will encourage compassion, policy changes in businesses and/or government, and occasional timely assistance to those of us counting pennies for gas.
4	1140998400	JD from Boston MA posted on February 26th reviews this book as being insightful into the underpaid working class, but was badly written.  I agree with JD that it was insightful piece of work, but I disagree about the writing style.  I thought the style of writing was targeted towards the middle/upper class because they are the ones that can afford the money and time it takes to read this book.  So I thought the writing style was great and appropriate for the audience.
5	1140998400	I ran across this book at Borders tonight, and read it cover to cover in the cafe. At my current wage of $8.25 an hour, I couldn't afford to buy it.I found her observations were right-on, but instead of feeling empowered I felt pretty defeated. Although she could empathize with her fellow co-workers, her situation was not permanent.Will this book make a difference? Do you think our smuck bosses and corrupt corporations will start to care about the well being of their employee's? No.I have worked as a waitress, a maid (lasted a week), in sales... I even went door to door. I am now in retail, my hours reduced to 15 a week, while another, lower ranking employee gets his hours increased. His parents happen to be millionairs, and he still lives at home. It is his first job.This book depresses me. It's a good book for those who aren't suffering the injustice's.
4	1140998400	Liked this book very much.  At the end perhaps got a bit drawn out when discussing overall economic issues, but the descriptions of the author's experiences in the workplace provide much food for thought.  Well worth the price.
4	1140912000	A friend of mine told me that I would probably enjoy this book, after saying that they did not like it at all. I was not sure why they automatically thought I would like it, but as soon as I began reading it I learned why. Although this book reinforces information that you may already know, it also brings the "true-life" story alive. This is not the most exciting book, but I found it be to interesting because of the way Barbara Ehrenreich was able to change her lifestyle, and slowy, change her mindset about the poor working class of America.
4	1140912000	I really enjoyed the book and I believe that the author gave alot of insight into the world of the underpaid working class that people so rarely take notice to. I didn't really like her style of writing, but nevertheless the book was eye opening and interesting.
4	1140912000	It is really a shame that what could have been a revealing and intimate look into the working class was disregarded by the only people that could truly influence change.I applaud Barbara Ehrenreich for her courage and free spirited ability to write this book.How great America could be when its people learn to sincerely say `Please and Thank you.'I find that each negative example that has been used to support each persons disappointment with this book has been taken out of context. Nickel and Dimed is a wonderful book.Read this book for the simple reason of forming your own educated opinion on the WORKING poor.This book isn't about lazy people, working easy jobs. This book is about understanding how the working poor has become an acceptible foundation for one of the richest countries in the world.Ehrenreich set out with a simple question: "How does anyone live on the wages available to the unskilled?" In this book she accomplished what she set out to do. She found that people don't live a life on the wages available to the unskilled, they survive.`It is a shame that I lost my respect for' those individuals that had the leisure time, a spare $13, possess an ability to comprehend along with received the basic education required to read this book and still feel that poverty isn't a huge problem in America.Recommended movies for those unmoved by Ehrenreich's work, please consider viewing the following:Dirty Pretty Things (2002) Directed by Stephen FrearsWal-Mart: The High Cost of Low Price(2005) Directed byRobert Greenwald
4	1140912000	This book was definately an eye opener. It's almost hard to believe that a life that seeems so far away could be just around the corner and that so many people in our country live this way everyday. This book definately allows you to make the realization that the working poor do exsist and need society's assistance.
2	1140912000	Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America is critically acclaimed, by America's top critics of the New York Times, the San Francisco Chronicle, and USA Today, as a "captivating", "brilliant," "eloquent," "courageous," and "unforgettable" novel. I assume they feel this way because they themselves had never had to struggle from moving their own families from Welfare to the work force. Ehrenreich does not accurately portray the life of a person just getting off Welfare, most Welfare carriers are families, not individuals.This novel lacks creativity and originality. Seriously, we find out much about the author herself, barely enough about the difficult lives of her co-workers, and nearly offers any suggests on how to better their lives. She does not offer any real insights, just descriptions of her co-workers. She does not interact with her co-workers and their families outside of her low level jobs as a waitress, as a hotel room maid, and as a Wal-Mart employee. She hardly leads the lives that her co-workers do. She does not participate in their lives, by visiting their homes and families, having them over for dinner, or by doing the types of activities they do on their days off from work.Most low wage workers do not own cars; they mostly depend on public transportation. Even Ehrenreich admits that her car "set me off...from many...of my co-workers." Most families that have the privilege of having start-up money. Ehrenreich spends most of her time complaining about the cost of the rent when she could have just looked for a roommate. Most low-wage earners do not live alone, obviously because splitting the cost of rent is cheaper.Her sarcasm throughout the book is greatly unappreciated; her sarcasm is used to belittle the low wage working class. Her anti-religion comments put me on edge; they were disgusting and offensive. Honestly, if you wish to read a real novel that explores the life of the unfortunate try reading John Howard Griffin's Black Like Me. This authentic undercover work is truly an eye-opener!
3	1140912000	Although many students either living with their parents or living with roommates take low-wage jobs to supplement their parents' income and to obtain spending money for themselves, there are many individuals who work low-wage jobs to sustain themselves and possibly their children.  How many times have you had a waitress or maid that was obviously not a young college or high school student simply making money to be able to go to the mall later?  There are clearly women and men who make, or at least try to make, a living by working at least one low-wage job.  Some may feel that these people can move on at any time they want, but the truth of the matter is if they could obtain a better job and live more comfortably, they would.  Although Ehrenreich is obviously not one of these people, she still gives a more enlightened perspective to what a low-wage worker must do to survive, whether it be living out of their cars or motels or working two jobs to the point of exhaustion just to get by.
3	1140825600	I think that this book was not a waste of time and that it is done by a writer who honestly as much as her place in society allows her get into the minds of the poor.  None of us can know exactly how if feels and what it is like to be poor unless we live with it each and everyday.  She wrote a good book and honestly formed relationships with the people she met along the way.  I think that this book brings a good awareness to the plight of the poor in America that many of us do not realize or even want to think about.
4	1139788800	This is an excellent book that looks at a place that many people haven't seen, minimum wage.  Ehrenreich not only looks at what it is like to work in a place with no benefits and bosses that could often care less about a person's wellbeing, but what it is like to survive personally on minimum wage.  Ehrenreich masquerades as an uneducated new to town looking for work woman.  She succeeds in getting a job as a waitress, Wal-Mart employee, and as a maid in 3 different regions of the country.  She focuses on making a living including taking care of her housing, clothing, food and entertainment needs with no other income than her minimum wage job(s).  The book is an eye opener to what it takes to make ends meet in the wealthiest nation.
5	1139443200	Before reading the book, I never thought of how hard the poor struggle. As I have been lucky enough to attend Northeastern University, drive a nice car, and live more than comfortably, I would only think of the next thing I want. After reading the book, I feel much more aware of the struggles of the minimum wage worker, and I find myself with a glass that is half full, and I don't care about "what new thing I'll get next."
3	1139270400	It took me a while to decide how to rate this book. The issues Ehrenreich's experiment raises are extremely important, but the book itself is somewhat lacking. Overall it is well-written and enjoyable. I especially appreciated her descriptions of the people she worked with in the three locations. She did a good job of illustrating the affordable housing shortage and also what it is like to be one unforeseen expense away from being homeless. I also thought some of her insights on how the middle and upper classes do not understand what it is like to be truly poor were excellent. For example, she talks a lot about how the poor are criticized for unhealthy food choices, but then demonstrates how many of these are not "choices" at all. It's hard to cook when you have no kitchen or no refigerator. Also her attempts to get help through state and local agencies were very revealing.I would have liked to have had more analysis of the experiment though - the final chapter is fairly perfunctory. She offers no real ideas about solutions to the problems of poverty; instead she presents a vision of a future workers' revolution. But even that vision is too vague to be of much use. Finally, I wish she would have spent more energy on addressing transportation issues, and less on complaining about drug testing.I would recommend that people read this book, if only as a way to begin thinking about the issues it addresses. I also recommend the episode of the tv show 30 Days where Morgan Spurlock and his fiance did a similar experiment in working minimum wage jobs.
4	1139011200	Since we seem to want to not actually "see" the poor around us each day the author makes a good case for the difficulty that people are having in our country despite the immense wealth that has been created. The hard work leads nowhere with absurd rules, regulations, and bosses that don't care about their employees. I highly recommend this book! While we "outsource" good paying jobs we are left to give people poor paying jobs with no futures.
1	1138665600	This is the biggest waste of trees I have ever read.  This book- if you can call it that is so hoity and condasending.  I am discusted that it is required reading for a college class.  I spent 10$ to read about a woman pretending to be poor???And the thing is...I haven't even made it past the first chapter.I love to read and I love books but I want to burn this one.
2	1138665600	I was quite disappointed in it -- I guess I bought into all the "hype" that I had heard about it. I appreciated how informative it was and it confirmed what I already knew. The author's sarcasm at times was offense as well as how she talked down towards others not like her -- not very classy in my opinion.
3	1138665600	After reviewing some of my fellow readers' comments, I was surprised at the anger and disgust they felt toward the author of this book.  But then again, I'm not surprised.  As a middle class professional, I feel that the book educated me on how difficult it is for the working poor in America.  Call me sheltered, naive, or blind, but I had never thoughtfully considered how someone making $7 an hour can survive on that wage.  I think the reason why the book failed to offend me is because I have not been employed in that capacity, and have therefore not experienced the struggle faced by the millions of Americans who do.  The author's sarcasm, I believe, had more to do with her writing style (which was frequently witty) than her attitude towards her co-workers on this experiment.  In fact, she was very empathetic towards her co-workers.I enjoyed this book a great deal.  I read it quickly because it was engaging, educational, and sensitively humorous.  At the same time, its message has really stuck with me.
1	1138492800	I'm not even really sure if most of the people who have these jobs are actually trying to live as this author tried to live to illustrate her point. Actually, I probably do. Most of them aren't. Most people with these jobs are very young, sometimes in school, often living with their parents, roomates, or lovers to cut the cost of rent, and aren't raising families. In many situations, these jobs augment a family's primary source of income, and aren't the sole source of revinue. And in these cases, employees eventually make more money, receive promotions, or acquire better jobs. I'm not sure if there's some underhanded sneaky implication that businesses should be saddled with the expense of making their entry-level positions capable of supporting an individual living without roomates in a decent apartment, with transportation, modern amenities, completely on their own, or perhaps even popping out a few dependent children. It doesn't take a brilliant economist to realize that raising the minimum wage raises the cost of commodities sold by companies that are saddled with higher payrolls, resulting in otherwise unrelated companies paying their employees more to afford the new commodities, which in turn causes them to raise the price of whatever they're selling due to the increased cost of purchasing all the little things made possible by entry-level positions which are suddenly more expensive. As the price on everything goes up as a result of the raise of minimum wage, those with their brand new minimum wages are in the same boat they were before. If that's not the case, then we can raise the minimum wage to $15/hour tommorow and everyone can afford a new Camry. Maybe that's in the end of the book? I don't know. I haven't read it.
3	1137715200	WHAT I LEARNED ABOUT PRINCESS BARBARAMs Ehrenreich is not very good at menial jobs.  She quits in a huff (p 48).  She's clumsy and weak (p 98).  She can't even contemplate the idea of working a whole eleven hours in a row (p 149).  She's also been pampered her whole life, or at least for a very long time.  Her wonderment at the manual labor involved in housecleaning left me laughing.  Maybe in her tony world of wind, waves, beaches and yachts on Summerland Key no one does their own cleaning, but everyone else from the upper-middle class on down sure does.PRINCESS BARBARA AVOIDS ESSENTIAL ISSUES AND MAKES MANY MISTAKES...*  Ms Ehrenreich grossly underplays the effect illegal immigrants have on entry-level wages.  She sort of mentions it in passing (see p 121 for a hilariously frank comment on this point), but never discusses its profound impact on the working poor, even while she's busy trying to plumb the depths of the mystery of the why the poor can't command higher wages (pp 203-7).  I criticized Thomas Frank's book "What's the Matter With Kansas?" because it similarly glosses over the role that immigration plays on salaries of American low-wage workers, and the only reasonable conclusion I can draw from both Mr. Frank and Ms Ehrenreich's avoidance of the issue is that their avoidance is because of their political affiliation.  Apparently, when race hustlers are an important part of your coalition, you should keep mum about the effects of illegal immigration.* Should we be forced to subsidize peoples' poor lifestyle choices?  Drugs, booze, multiple children?  If so, why?  Ms Ehrenreich never examines the morality of this issue.  What is the necessary connection between another's need and my obligation?  Should we force businesses to subsidize these poor lifestyle choices through the mechanism of a mandated health insurance, minimum wage etc.?  These are not  rhetorical questions.  We already *do* subsidize many of our fellow citizens' poor lifestyle decisions, via, for example, Medicaid.*  Low-wage workers nearly always do not live by themselves, for the very reason Ms Ehrenreich discovers: it's damn expensive.  "Who, in real life, plops herself down in a totally strange environment--without housing, family connections, or job--and attempts to become a viable resident?"  (pp 130-31).  I know that when *I* was making minimum wage (washing dishes at "Mr. Steak" on Fair Oaks Boulevard in Sacramento for $3.35 an hour) I lived at home.*  Ms Ehrenreich is ignorant as to the difference between government action and private action regarding our civil liberties.  Private employer drug testing, particularly pre-employment drug testing, is not a "violation of our Fourth Amendment freedom from `unreasonable search'" (p 209) because it is not "government action," i.e., submission to pre-employment testing is voluntary, as in, no one can force you to do it.  The same goes with supposed violations of First Amendment freedom of speech, and the NLRA even statutorily (statute Barbara, not constitution) covers union-related on-the-job speech....BUT THE BOOK IS STILL WORTH READINGIf you can get past Ms Ehrenreich's retrograde syndicalist and Marxist rantings, the book does a fair job of describing some of the day-to-day life of those at the lowest economic quintile of American society, and does so with a considerable amount of empathy, humor and style.  It doesn't hurt for people of any political or economic stripe to learn a little about how the other half lives.  Next time you're at a restaurant, and the service has been better than half-ass, leave a generous tip.  And once in a while you might consider tipping that dishwasher too.
5	1137456000	One night back in the late 1980s, I was entering a nightclub on Queen Street West in Toronto with my cousins.  A number of young guys were standing outside; their hair was spiked and they had tattoos and rings in their nose.  To my absolute horror, my younger cousin looked at the punkers disparagingly and said, "Why don't you get a job?"  His ignorant assumption was that the dissidents couldn't possibly be employed.  This misconception is shared by many middle-class North Americans.Cutting-edge, investigative reporter Barbara Ehrenreich decided to take a hard look at the plight of the working poor.  Sounds like an oxymoron to many of us who foolishly conclude that just because someone is working, they can't be poor.  Going underground, much like the author of Black Like Me, Ehrenreich left her cushy, upper-middle-class life as a journalist in order to work at a series of low level jobs for the minimum wage -- places we're all dying to get into like Wal-Mart, nursing homes that take care of Alzheimer's patients, national services that exploit maids and restaurant chains that grossly underpay their waitresses.At first, I thought that Ehrenreich would be writing about a female ghetto but in fact, women with partners were often protected by their men, who made slightly more than them.  It was single women -- unmarried, widowed or divorced -- with children who fared worse, but there were also a number of men like busboys and cooks who were merely eeking out an existence.The world that Barbara E. describes is so foreign to most of us that we can't envision how someone might be forced to live permanently in a motel because they can't come up with the first and last month rent for an apartment.  Interesting also is the personality change that Ehrenreich describes herself going through; at times she feels hostile towards other workers.  Working seven days a week at two low-paying jobs at once can do that to someone, and that's the only way that she discovered that she could almost make a living.Brutally candid about the American workplace as well as her own reaction, and hysterically, laugh out loud funny, this social critic has carved an epic spot for herself as an expository journalist.  She is the conscience that the corporate world so badly lacks.My only issues with the book is that Ehrenreich smugly insinuated that no one really needs a maid.  Really?  What about the elderly or the disabled?  Some people can't do their own housework.  Also, there's nothing intrinsically debasing about cleaning homes; the main problem with that type of work is the remuneration or lack thereof and the way that maids are treated.Also, you would think that she would have tried to room with someone, not to get high before a drug test, and to give a more detailed picture of her cohorts who actually live in the low wage world that "Barb" only visited.Aside from the flaws, I really liked this book.Sigrid MacdonaldEditor and Author of D'Amour Road[...]
5	1137196800	Barbara Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed" is already a classic account of how the other half lives.  In 1998, the author embarked on a project to learn firsthand how a person can survive on six or seven dollars an hour.  How can someone earning such low wages afford to pay rent, eat, and remain relatively healthy and well rested?  The book is an account of the author's experiences in the trenches as a blue-collar worker.Ehrenreich travels from Florida to Maine, and then to Minnesota, working as a waitress, house cleaner, nursing home aid, and an associate in Wal-Mart.  She describes her struggles to find affordable housing and to obtain adequate rest and nourishment while working long hours under physically and emotionally grueling conditions.  If she was expecting respect, compassion, and gratitude for her efforts, Ehrenreich was soon disabused of her fantasies.  She ended up paying too much rent for the privilege of living in filthy places filled with mold, dining on cheap and readily available junk food, and having to apply to dozens of places before being granted an interview.  The jobs themselves were physically and emotionally demanding, and occasionally demeaning, as well.The writing is lucid and conversational, with many humorous and lively anecdotes and cleverly phrased descriptive passages.  The author is sardonic and cynical about the drug and psychological tests that are prerequisites for some of the jobs she sought.  She also includes informative footnotes with data from various studies that put the her experiences into a larger perspective.What does "Nickel and Dimed" add to the national dialogue about America's workforce?  Ehrenreich's thesis is that work is not necessarily a ticket out of poverty in America.  Sometimes, even two jobs are not enough to pay for food, clothing, and shelter, especially for a single parent with kids.  Decent housing is often difficult if not impossible to obtain in many parts of the country.  Corporate America keeps low-wage employees in their places by discouraging unionization, treating their employees as interchangeable and disposable, and finding ways to dehumanize them at every turn.  Ehrenreich maintains that when "you enter the low-wage workplace . . . you check your civil liberties at the door."  Impersonal and irrational rules and the constant threat of being fired for any transgression erode workers' self-esteem as well as the will to stand up for themselves.  As long as America's workers are denied living wages, health benefits, and affordable child care, we will continue to have a permanent underclass in our country of plenty.
5	1136937600	I absolutely loved this book!! I have a whole new respect for my waitresses and the house keepers at hotels and even walmart workers. I have a friend that works at walmart and she can totally relate to everything that Barbara talks about during her walmart experience. I strongly feel that this is a book that EVERYONE should read, especially those who have had the fortune not to work any of these jobs. It is one of those books that is just good for humanity, it lets you see the world from a whole new perspective!
5	1136764800	We in America are accustomed to believing that hard work will pay off with good wages, advancement, a single-family home and the trappings of the American Dream.This might be true for many, but not all.  In 'Nickle and Dimed', Barbara Ehrenreich goes undercover as a waitress, a maid, a hotel worker and a Wal-Mart associate to explore what it's like to work a minimum wage job.It's not fun.  The work is physically demanding, the managers you report to and the customers you serve are unlikely to commend your efforts,  and you won't be able to support yourself by working a 40-hour week.  Count on working weekends just to keep your head above water, and consider doubling up with another family or living in your car as a solution to rising housing costs.Barbara Ehrenreich has done America a service by writing Nickle and Dimed.  It is a moving look at how many in working class America just scrape by-- or fail to-- and is a call to action for political change.  Read it and be enlightened and moved.
5	1136764800	After reading some of the reviews below, it's apparent that many cannot.In Ehrenreich's first job as a waitress in Key West, she points out how one of her co-workers lives in her truck  because she cannot afford even the lowest-cost housing available. This same co-worker is thrilled when her boss "allows" her to park at night in a hotel parking lot behind the restaurant, because at least there will be a security guard around in case she's attacked. Instead of sympathy from her boss, she's then warned to "keep out of sight."At her next job as a maid in Maine, Ehrenreich writes of her team leader, who because she has to feed three people on $50 to $60 a week, eats nothing but a handful of Doritos for lunch everyday. As a result, she becomes dizzy, weak and horribly pale trying to work a 3,000 calorie a day job that pays her enough to afford only a few hundred. Soon, she becomes ill and probably breaks her ankle- we never find out for sure, because she can't go to the doctor- she doesn't have health insurance. In fact, she can't afford to take time off- she keeps working because she has no alternative. These two examples barely scratch the surface of this eye-opening book.Everyone should read this book. The lives are real- you unknowingly come into contact with these people everyday. Many find this book disturbing because their consciences can't allow them to believe that people live like this.Others make arguments that this isn't realistic because "safety nets" exist, not realizing that most working poor are busy... WORKING during the "bankers" hours that assistance is offered- on purpose, and usually during the day from 10 to 3:00PM. Not to even mention how degrading the process of applying for aid is often made to be.Another reviewer wondered why Ehrenrich didn't attempt to get to know these people after work. The reality is that those who don't work a second job usually go home to squalid apartments and do their best to feed their kids and families. If you haven't figured it out yet, the people who ask many of these questions were born to middle or upper-class homes and have never had to wonder where their next meal was coming from.In closing, if you can handle the truth, you will learn how upper-class society depends on these people to sacrifice their health, families, and over the long-term, their lives to maintain their luxuries. Slavery is not dead in America, it's simply taken a different, more acceptable form.Buy and read this book- then go help someone who desperately needs it. You'll feel better, and they will never forget you for it.
4	1136678400	I do not feel that that the author wanted to present a hard hitting argument of sorts. She doesn't try to force her opinion of the lower class and how they are forced to live upon you...that is what makes this book so great. When reading it you are left to decide for yourself how you feel about people working awful jobs on minimum (or less than minimum) wage. Ehrenreich presents the facts and findings of her experiences in these jobs, and describes how she felt but nevere does she force a one sided opinion on you. She also makes it very clear that no job, no matter how menial is truely "unskilled".
2	1136505600	I have the audio version of this book. Perhaps it's the way the reader (not the author) presents it, but her words drip with snottiness and a sense of superiority over these coworkers of hers.  She's an essayist.  She's hardly a brain surgeon or an electrician.  She's as unskilled as they are in many ways.She speaks a lot about herself, very little about the people she meets in the course of her work, and presents every job in the worst light possible. Yes, I also agree with her that there are a lot of crummy jobs out there that don't pay enough.  But she obviously is trying to fail at this project to make her point that apparently we'd be better off with socialism.  Why not share rent expenses?  I did until I was nearly 30.  Why apply only for the lowest paying jobs?  I would kill for workers at $12/hour who were hard working and dependable and they need zero experience or skills besides a healthy body.  Why apply only in a restaurant where tips stink?  You can make a good living, at least double her hourly figure, in most places I've spent time.  The reason some people clean rooms at hotels for $7/hour is that they aren't too bright or aren't motivated enough to do it privately (a nearly zero startup cost business) for double the pay.  She also compares her setup to that of a single mother kicked off welfare.  Well....how about writing a book on how not to have children you can't support?  I forgot about the constitution's inalienable right to "get it on", I suppose.  Does it occur to her that a life like she's playing at living might indeed be a good incentive to stay in school(which is free through college if you just try a little), stay childless till you're ready, and take any job and work at getting better ones?Much of the misery and desolation is really there. Corporations do indeed try to squeeze every cent out and that ruins most jobs out there, but her snobbery shines through as she sees any form of manual labor (what does she think we did in the world before the modern age?) as demeaning.  She's PART OF THE PROBLEM with her attitudes.  That's become a huge social problem in America. Our poor are demoralized by being considered "losers" in life by people like the author if they don't have "white collar" jobs.  So, they quit trying.She lacks any understanding of economics.  You can't mandate minimum wages w/o unintended consequences and you certainly can't fix rents.  It's been tried and failed.The reason for low wages for these working people is simple.  First, massive immigration that drives down the value of their labor in the service industries.  And second, massive outsourcing of manufacturing and any other industry that can be taken out of the country in the name of lower costs in the "global economy" eliminates those jobs.  It's not mean businessmen trying to screw people. Well, they might, but only the supply/demand balance being out of whack allows that to happen.  The solution is to cut off the immigration spigot and let Americans fill these jobs at the higher wage levels that would result.  The price of tomatos or home construction be damned.I despise people like this writer.  Oh yeah, I'm one of those great unwashed she barely mentions in her narcissistic and biased book.  I mow people's lawns for a living in my own small business started with a borrowed truck and push mower 15 years ago.  And by that I mean I MOW them, I don't hire illegals and sit in an office cooling my jets.  I'm in the field.  I have done just fine over the years, even if not getting rich. I own a fine new home, three vehicles, two dogs,  and live very comfortably.  Perhaps not having a kid at age 16 or quitting school or smoking dope (like the author may) has something to do with that?  I admit I had some advantages others haven't, but I'm hardly an Ivy Leaguer here and I work far less hard than many out there.You see, if you make stupid choices, do the bare minimum, do nothing but resent your management, never try to improve your lot, and rely on rich liberals to tax money from others to give to you one day in some socialist utopia, you will indeed not 'get by" in America.A good waitress is a lot more valuable to me than writers like this who can't even be intellectually honest.  What skill does she have?  She pays these "little people" to do things for her, then looks down on them for it.
2	1136505600	Nickel and Dimed is a very well-written book, a real page-turner.  And the worried-waitress photo on the cover is extremely effective.But the book does not make the case that it purports to make, and I think only someone already thoroughly persuaded of its point of view could believe that it does.The book is a report of "undercover" experience of the author as a low-wage worker.  Its thesis is that persons in low-wage jobs are not only trapped there, but actually cannot make enough to live on.The book has three sections.  In the first, the author, Barbara Ehrenreich (I'll call her BE), has unsatisfactory adventures working as a waitress.  It ends when, in a particularly trying situation, BE, plainly thinking, "Some shlep of a single mother might have to put up with this, but I'm BE and I certainly don't!", puts down her waitress stuff and walks out - leaving her co-worker, her employer, and a roomful of customers, completely in the lurch.  The contrast with the waitress in Your Money or Your Life (Dominguez and Robin) is stark.Moving to a different city, BE takes a day job with a commercial cleaning company and a weekend job as a caregiver.  Although the jobs, the cleaning job in particular, are unpleasant for a person used to affluence, they are in fact providing enough to live on, with perhaps a bit to spare.  BE's response, one Friday night, is to call in sick to her weekend caregiving job and leave town.In her next location, she applies, and is accepted, for a relatively well-paying and advancement-promising job at Menard's.  She's supposed to begin work several days later.  A hard-up person in this situation might use the intervening days to hang around the store, learning everything she can in preparation.  Not BE.  She goes to Wal-Mart and hires on to a worse job at much lower pay.  It isn't recorded whether she bothered to let Menard's know.At Wal-Mart, she finds to her surprise that the bottom-of-the-ladder job has certain satisfactions.  Her response is to begin engaging in completely gratuitous petty rule-violations and in frank union agitation.Most revealing is the attitude of contempt, or at least condescension, that she expresses concerning one of her co-workers along the way, a woman living in an RV who makes a barter agreement with her employer for a parking place for the RV.  I would say that a low-wage worker who manages to acquire an RV and a place to put it shows admirable initiative and uses a highly effective method for accumulating capital on a low income.  BE feels the woman has traded off her dignity by making the agreement with her supervisor (something, one gathers, that she, BE, would never do--but of course, she doesn't face the choice).The bottom line, I think, is that people like BE want to be the powerful superiors who come in and GIVE "inferiors" what the superiors think the inferiors ought to have -- doing the giving, one must add, not from their own assets but from the assets of the community at large.  People with this outlook have a deep hostility to what is to them the impertinence of less-advantaged people who prefer to do for themselves.  Persuading us that it is IMPOSSIBLE for the less well-off to do for themselves is a powerful propaganda achievement for BE and her ideological friends, if they can get us to swallow it.In actuality, "class" in America is very fluid and, BE to the contrary notwithstanding, people rise economically all the time.  Most impressive are many immigrants, some of whom get off the boat with zero money, looks that give them away, and even ignorance of the language.  It is very common for such people to clean toilets or drive taxis in the first generation, own small businesses in the second, and go to college and on to professional jobs in the third.That doesn't mean, of course, that we should let immigrants enter in such floods as we do.  Some say that "Americans won't do crappy jobs".  They're half right.  Americans won't do crappy jobs for crappy pay; for decent pay, they will, as generations of assembly-line workers demonstrate.  The reason pay for low-skill jobs is so bad is because there is an unending stream of new immigrants willing to take the bad pay.One might expect BE to speak out against massive immigration, but in this book at least, she does not.  Neither does organized labor, which decided a decade ago that the people who run labor unions would do better letting immigrants in and trying to organize them than by keeping them out.  The big unions, that is to say, sold out the American worker.  Would it surprise you to know that BE is married to a union leader?
4	1136332800	This book is of course weighted with political baggage, since Ehrenreich is unapologetically liberal (some reviewers have called her a socialist, which I think is an exaggeration, but she definitely advocates a much more active welfare state), and so your opinion of the book will be colored by how you feel about wealth, class disparity, the free market, and welfare. If you lean left, you'll probably agree with most of what Ehrenreich says; if you lean to the right, you'll probably find her smug leftism infuriating.But, you should read this book anyway regardless of whether you think you'll agree with her conclusions, because as a work of investigative journalism alone, it's a compelling read. Maybe not if you've actually lived the life Ehrenreich describes, but if you've been middle class all your life and never had to actually support yourself and a family waitressing, housecleaning, or working at Walmart, her narrative really gives you some empathy for the working poor, and how grueling, desperate, and tedious their lives can be. It's not Ehrenreich's own experiences that put you in their shoes, because (as she points out herself many times), as tired as she might get after working a double shift, she knows all along that she's just "visiting" and can go back to her real life any time. But she does describe the lives of the people she works with, and how they wind up trapped.It really is more expensive to be poor. For example, it may seem foolish for so many poor people to live in hotels, which are far more expensive than a regular apartment, but if you can't scrape together the money for first and last month's rent and a security deposit, you can't get into an apartment! She describes how many of her coworkers are trapped in situations like this -- with just one lucky break, or a little bit of starting capital, many of these folks could probably break out of the poverty trap and climb up the economic ladder, but it's so much harder than it might seem. Yes, you can get frustrated at what appears to be short-sightedness and even ignorance on the part of some of the working poor with whom Ehrenreich empathizes. No doubt, a lot of them have screwed up in their lives and that's why they are in the state they're in. You may be tempted to tell yourself "I know how I would get out of that situation." And maybe you would, but even if that's true, you have to empathize with those who just lack the social support networks or the upbringing to find their own way out.I did find many of the author's observations to be poignant and insightful, but much of her narrative reeked of her own upper-middle-class assumptions. As much as she tried to be aware of her prejudices, there was a patronizing tone to much of the book. She felt sorry for the poor, but was more prone to go on a rant about how insensitive and callous rich people are than to offer practical suggestions for what the poor could do to help themselves. She spends lots of time dwelling on the pretensions of people who hire housecleaners, and implies that if you hire someone to clean your house, you're practically a slave owner! But there's nothing inherently wrong with me paying someone to do something I don't want to do myself; the issue is whether I am paying them fairly and treating them decently. Ehrenreich ignores this in her class warfare polemics.Read this book to get some perspective on what it's like to live in rat-trap hotels or overpriced, cramped apartments on meager wages where you can't really buy enough to eat well, and your job is lousy, oppressive, and exhausting. That makes it worth the read. The author's politics, like I said, you can take 'em or leave 'em, but it doesn't make her story less interesting.
5	1136332800	In the book Nickel and Dimed Barbra Ehrenreich sets out to discover whether it is actually possible to lead a decent life while working minimum wage jobs. Throughout the course of the book we see her in various settings including, Key West, Maine, and Minnesota, as well as in numerous jobs which range from retail to maid services. The one thing all readers of the book can be sure of is it is impossible in this day and age in the United States to work A.) only one minimum wage job and  B.) work low paying jobs and still create a good life for yourself.While reading the book the reader come in contact with various people, whom unlike the author, have been living the life the "working poor" for the majority of their lives. Ehrenreich does an excellent job of explaining to that reader that she in no way can understand the hardships those who truly live this way have faced. She is merely a journalist that took the assignment to depict what life as the working poor can be like. As she proved, it is by no means easy.What the book accomplishes is showing the harsh reality that although we may not believe this is happening it most certainly is. Millions of Americans are living below the poverty line and working day in and out but still not able to produce food on the table for their children. Also it is not just an isolated occurrence. It takes place everywhere as Ehrenreich proved. In beach town such as Key West to small towns in Maine, people are forced to give up their well being and subject themselves to grueling and seemingly never ending labor.To anyone who wishes to learn how things in the real world actually are I highly recommend this book. It will open you eyes to the way things are and perhaps to how things have to change. Ehrenreich proves the point that by working minimum wage jobs, people are "not getting by in America".
4	1136246400	Barbara Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed" features a smug intellectual who flounces between low-paying jobs to prove that capitalism is really endentured servitude.You do end up feeling fairly sorry for the poor souls who actually hold these jobs as maids and Wal-Mart clerks.  Yet, there is the nagging feeling that these were the loser kids you spotted from first grade onward who perenially make idiotic life choices and are blessed with an over-abundance of bad judgement.Ehrenreich goes on the brifest of elitist's holidays to see what their lives are like, and in the process deduces that it's too bad Lenin is dead.The book provides a few laugh-out-loud moments and its fairly sportily written.Yet, when you turn the final page, she just comes across as any other liberal who will move on to the next cause like a fickle teen girl moving from boyfriend to boyfriend.Low-end workers are clearly oppressed and abused in many ways; it's just that "Nickel and Dimed" treats them with an equal dose of amusement as concern.
1	1136073600	Barbara Ehrenreich is my least favorite type of journalist.  She believes that her insights are so important that it doesn't matter if she makes life harder for the very people for whom she wishes to evoke sympathy.In this book, Ehrenreich pretends to be an unskilled blue collar worker.  She carries on and on about how difficult housing is for these workers.  Here she is, bemoaning the fact that she can't find a decent apartment, while taking the best one she can find at the expense of someone else who really needs lodging. Ditto for jobs. A bit hypocritical one might think.There were no insights this writer had about how difficult life can be that couldn't have been gleaned from interviewing members of the group she was writing about.If she just wanted to have the experience of going through what these people go through, then say so.  But don't harm those whose turmoil you wish to expose by making if harder for them to get a job or a home, even for a month.If one wishes to read a more honest account of blue collar work, read "Blue-Collar Journal: A College President's Sabbatical" by John Coleman.  It's a more honestly presented book.
3	1135900800	I really wanted to like this book in the same way I loved Fast Food Nation. What could be more compelling than a writer and opinion-shaper from the educated class leaving it all behind on an experiment to see how unskilled workers can make a go of it in the modern economy? The premise is fantastic. Unfortunately, it's not until half-way through the book that you realize it's really all about the author and not the bottom 20 percent of wage slaves among and with whom she temporary lives and works.Ehrenreich showed no adaptability in doing what it takes to survive. (I was in that world growing up and into adulthood so it was doubly frustrating to see her make so many dumb mistakes.) Why, for instance, did she even think she could have a nice apartment all to herself on a maid's or waitress' salary? You've got to find roommates or family to help get your share of the rent down to $200 or $300 tops. (Always look at posted ads near universities or in the classifieds.) And her diet was horrible. Fast food twice a day? She blames the lack of refrigeration but millions of poor families in India manage to cook rice, lentils, and vegetables using ghee (clarified butter) that needs no refrigeration. Have we become so spoiled in the U.S. that basic survival skills are lost?As a fellow atheist I relate to her tent revival experience and can understand why she shunned the support network of a church. But going it totally alone? Even atheists have local networks of friends in every major community (I remember being dead broke in Boulder, Colorado and eating frequently at the local Hari Krishna community temple until I could get my first paycheck at a crappy job.) I suspect the maddening "loner with private apartment" mindset came from the writer's need to write every night rather than to engage in the experiment at the depth necessary to understand true poverty. Because she goes at it in one month chunks she is still too far removed from the people around her. In the end, the author retreats inside of an idealized self and gazes too often at her own navel. And the book suffers at a result.It was a brilliant premise but a flawed execution. It's still worth reading and I liked it a lot -- my complaints are mainly about lost opportunity. Here's what another author who wishes to repeat the study should consider: really and truly cut yourself off from the comfy resources of the privileged life and resolve to stick it out for at least a year. Leave the laptop behind and keep a journal instead. And for Pete's sake don't act out one week on the job at Wal-Mart and relive your hippie days by trying to organize a union! This wasn't the intent, but the union agitation left me with the impression that she was just trying to get fired because she couldn't find an apartment and life generally sucked. In the real world you don't have such a luxury -- you have to stick it out or you're sunk.
5	1135900800	The author set out to test the notion that the working poor could live comfortably on minimum wage salaries of 6-7 dollars an hour.  In order to test this notion, she left the comforts of an established life to move to distant cities and attempt to acquire housing and work similar to those whom she wrote about. Her goal was to experience something of their lives with the knowledge that her experience would be imcomplete by virtue of race, class, and education.  She thought she might find some "trick of the trade" or hidden secrets that would allow such lives to be lived with dignity.  What she found were lives lived day to day in desperation and indignity.  She worked as a housekeeper, maid, sales "associate", and nursing home dietary aide.  All low wage jobs and all jobs at the bottom of the employment heap.  In the process of learning about the people who work these jobs, she learned even more about their employers who "nickel and dime" the workers with low wages, indignities, disrespect, and contempt.Apparently Ms Ehrenreich's book has garnered some attention from the extreme right wing, who know little about poverty, and even less about literary wit and irony.  Rush Limbaugh railed against her on his shows (before and after his rehab), apparently hurt and enraged about her description of his book as a "low end read", and right wing students at Ball State University and UNC, in an attack funded and supported by right wing organizations orchestrated attacks on her by twisting her comments and taking them out of context.  I suspect they may have even written some of the Amazon reviews written by "students."  They accused her of not taking her research far enough, and of making racist comments, which leads to the conclusion that the radical right wing lives in some kind of flat earth Alice in Wonderland world.  I am an African American woman, and I found nothing racist in Nickel and Dimed.  This book isn't meant to be a sociological treatise filled with statistics and case studies, but a story told from the vantage point of someone on a journey of discovery about how the other half lives.  And what a journey it takes us on.  I thank her for giving voice to the voiceless and telling their stories with compassion, wit, and sincere empathy.  I do agree with the right wing that perhaps the research should be taken further, and in light of their expressed interest, suggest Ann Coulter, Bill O, or Rush L. take up Ms. Ehrenreich's mantle and live among the poor, take the jobs, and further the research.  Stay a while, as you criticize the writer for not doing, and perhaps make the stay permanent.  It would be a blessing.
2	1135641600	Ehrenreich functions as though she is economically illiterate - starting by trying to live by herself, instead of finding a friend, relative, or someone tolerable to share housing expenses and chores with.Her second major blunder is focusing on occupations that clearly are at the bottom of the economic pile, instead of looking for an opportunity for training and a position with benefits (eg. school bus or transit bus driver, teacher's aide). Retailing (especially at non-union locations), cleaning, and waitressing are guaranteed low-wage; the latter two occupations are particularly problematic because of the necessity of competing with a large influx of illegal immigrants. (In fact, Ehrenreich goes so far as to sympathize with the illegals - when they are a major part of the problem, and not our society's responsibility!)Ehrenreich could have performed a valuable service by providing strategies for others to work themselves out of the problem. Instead, she simply complains and wishes for some magic fairy solution - eg. unionize Wal-Mart (ain't going to happen).
2	1134691200	Nickel and Dimed is about what happens when an essayist with a PhD in Biology tries working a "low income" job.  I imagine if you read it as such, you'll be fine and you can probably disregard the rest of this review.Unfortunately, that's not how this booked is being hyped.  The quotes in the front of this book celebrate its contents like they are the key to unlocking the shackles of poverty.  I think it'd probably be faster to just pick the lock.First off, it is absolutely impossible to separate this book from the author's politics.  This wasn't written for the author's well-being or even for the entertainment of the reader; Barbara Ehrenreich is taking one for the little people.  Those poor, uneducated waitresses who will never make anything of themselves because society has held them back will finally collect their gold at the end of the rainbow once everyone in the country is aware of their struggles.  Sure, I suppose it's a noble cause, but it's also horribly misguided.  If I found out that the lady working next to me was a PhD coming down to see how the "other" half lived, I'd probably go key a little degree into her car.  Just because you had the time, money and desire to get a PhD doesn't mean that everyone has to.  I actually know a waitress who says the worst part of her job is the fact that people look down on her because she is a middle-aged food server.  Why doesn't she leave?  She likes her job!But getting back to the politics, if you do end up reading this tome, I suggest you skip the part where she starts harping on drug testing.  I knew something was up when she didn't take the Winn-Dixie job in Florida because of the drug test.  About a hundred pages later, she details her efforts to "detox" her system so she can pass the Wal-Mart drug test.  While I don't expect any of you to be as opposed to chemically altered states of consciousness as I am (though I will take this opportunity to liken using mind altering chemicals for relaxation to using anesthesia for a paper cut), one has to admire the absolute incompetence that would lead one to smoking up when you know you'll be looking for a job soon.  I realize that she (along with many others) oppose drug testing (I happen to really like peeing in cups, so I'm fine with it), but just because I oppose pants doesn't mean that I don't wear them while looking for a job.  Sure, they can't exactly test for that, but just like I wouldn't want a peace loving, pot smoking hippie working for me, I'm sure many of you wouldn't want a pantless atheist screaming about Batman and Black Metal working for you.  If it makes you feel any better, her rant about the tent revival she attended was similarly useless, though not quite as infuriating to me.But enough about my politics; my big problem with this book is it's conclusion.  Ehrenreich goes through great lengths to point out the flaws of management throughout the book as though they are revelations.  Anyone who has worked knows that management is normally a fancy term for "yelling at people while pretending to be busy."  She also states that she was surprised to find out that the jobs she took were really hard.  I'm sure most people could tell you that being a maid isn't going to be a relaxing day at the office.However, her big conclusion is that people aren't getting paid enough, which most people could have told you without reading or even hearing of this book.  Of course, the more she mentions her upper middle class life style, the more I can't help but think that a good waitress is worth much more than an essayist.  I'll be fine if I don't get my essay on time, but with food, speed and friendly service is of the utmost importance.  So why not switch their incomes?It may seem like I'm being a bit hard on this book and I understand that Ehrenreich wasn't in charge of the quotes on the front (and she does come off as much more humble in her introduction), but I just found it to be more political and arrogant than I would've liked.  If you're a hard-core liberal, then you'll probably run this up the flag pole and salute it.  Conservatives (even moderates) need not apply, unless you're looking for a sparring partner.  For those of us located somewhere near "I couldn't give a f***" Road and "I don't give a s***" Lane, Nickel and Dimed is a well-written, somewhat entertaining but mostly political rant on class structure from the top looking down.  If you're looking to learn something, just go watch "Pimp's Up, Ho's Down" and get yourself a real PhD.That's a Pimpin' Hos Degree.
5	1134432000	Fantastic work by Barbara Ehrenreich.The author goes deep into the world of low wages workers and confirms what we all dont want to confirm, that is, that we dont live in paradise. This book allows you to learn what is like for people who work as maids,Wal Mart sales person and waitresses.The author records every day what is like to work for peanuts while earning close to nothing.At the end of this book, the author  hits it right on the head with her conclusions of her work.We all think we live in paradise and when we see somebody working at Wendy's or as a cook we think that, at least, they are working.But we as americans, we basically turn our backs to the major issues regarding poverty and low wages. This book made me realize that i live a pretty good life compare to millions of people,not in Africa, not in India, but in my own country.This book makes you think twice when it comes to tipping after a good meal or after a nice stay at a hotel.You think you have a bad life....READ THIS BOOK
2	1134432000	This was a great idea and an important issue for us all to deal with and to the extent that it gets people to stop and think about the plight of the working poor in America, or to demand Congress increase the minimum wage, is certainly a worthwhile read.  It would have been a terrific book if Ehrenreich had gotten out of the way, left in socialist agenda and antagonism toward all religion at home and let the people she was interacting with be the stars of the show.  Sadly, she doesn't and what could have been an outstanding moral rallying cry desolves into a self-righteous lecture.The author makes only the barest attempts to study what effect government or non-profit programs have on improving the lives of the working poor and this has to be part of the mix of any serious treatise on poverty.  Do these programs help or hurt?  Which ones are good and which should be scrapped?  How many people are affected by them?  I would truly have liked to know.  That information might have armed citizens with the information and vision to effect change.  Another prime example of where she missed the boat, in her experience working for a corporate maid service, the author was paid a little less than $7 an hour, while the company charged the homeowners $25 per hour - which anyone would agree is just plain wrong.  She also points out the private house cleaners can earn $15 per hour.  So why, instead of launching into the diatribe about people who are so spoiled that they have others clean their home (Ehrenreich would NEVER hire someone to clean, which she clearly feels gives her some moral superiority over the rest of teh planet), doesn't she call readers to fire their corporate cleaning service and hire a private individual at $15 per hour?  They'd save money, and from what the author says about how these service clean they'd probably have a much cleaner home, and they would know that they are providing a deserving person with a job at a good, living wage?  But Ehrenreich is must to busy scolding everyone and grinding her political axe to stop and think of how she might use her bully pulpit to actually bring about some positive change.Overall, it is a dissapointing book particularly because it had the promise of greatness which is never realized.
3	1134000000	First and Foremost I would like to acknowledge I did believe this was an extremely well written book. Barbara Ehrenreich was a writer who sought to see if it was possible to survive off of 6-7 dollars an hour. She traveled to different states to acquire new jobs.  In the sense I enjoyed her small commentary about the way she partially stereotyped the atmosphere as she got to each State she arrived in." I chose Maine for its whiteness" Barbara says on page 51. I think she had her routes planned out.  Her goal when she went to every place was to get transportation, housing, and then a job.I do question the accuracy of her work. She tried to see if she could survive being a poverty stricken person. She gave up on jobs too quickly. She was too picky for someone who wanted to be poor. If you are forced to live off that much you will work as hard as you can to possibly get promoted, or produce into such a good worker that you get a raise. She chose her destinations to work for these reasons; Florida because it was close to home, Maine for its whiteness, and Minnesota because in California "warnings of heat and allergies put me off, my worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the crap jobs and substandard housing for themselves, as they so often do "You might think that unskilled jobs would be a snap for someone who holds a Ph.D." She found this to be wrong.
1	1133913600	I find Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed offensive on numerous levels and am appalled that it is required reading for a class on Power & Privilege.  Having not read anything about the books premise prior to my assignment, I was unprepared for a narrative that claims to report on how the working poor in America can hardly get by on minimum wage job but, is little more than one white women's venture into the land of hard work and poverty which she conveniently escapes whenever her social experiment goes awry.  I don't really care that Barbara Ehrenreich has street 'cred' because she comes from a long line of Teamsters or, that her grandfather worked in a copper mine. Big deal.  If Ehrenreich feels the labors of her predecessors make it okay for her to make statements like, "Still it is a shock for me to realize that "trailer trash" has become, for me, a demographic category to aspire to," she really needs to examine her motives. Comments like this make it doubly difficult for me to understand what purpose this books serves me as a student.Undoubtedly, there are better narratives that document the misery involved in trying to exist as a low-wage worker in this country or, better still, that use personal case studies to examine the conditions and structures that ensure that the poor stay that way. As a consequence, I do question for whom Ehrenreich purports to write for as she clearly is compelled by competing impulses.  On the one hand, the writer is intent on informing the reader of her social awareness and `hip ness'; painstakingly documenting an exchange she has with a dishwasher in one of the restaurants where she is masquerading as a waitress, with comments like,"George is a perfect straight arrow -- crew-cut, hardworking, and hungry for eye contact. "Czech Republic," I ask, "or Slovakia?"  and he seems delighted that I know the difference. "Vaclav Havel," I try, "Velvet Revolution, Frank Zappa?"  "Yes, yes, 1989," he says."Of course her allegiance to George, who is her "ESL" project, lasts as long as her stint at the diner where she walks out when work gets too hard.  Compare this to her comment about her search for new digs in the Florida Keys, not far from where Ehrenreich actually lives and goes home to "take occasional breaks from this life ... to catch up on e-mail and for conjugal visits," Wherein the author recounts, "By reputation, the Overseas park is a nest of crime and crack, and I am hoping at least for some vibrant multicultural street life."  What the hell???I am a grown woman of 40 plus years and by now I know that just because someone has a PhD doesn't mean that everything they write is golden.  I'm sure that Ehrenreich is a good writer; certainly the readership of the New York Times seems to think so. But, I encourage Ms. Ehrenreich to keep her forays into the lives of the disenfranchised to herself or, at the very least, limit the anecdotes to the cocktail party circuit she seems intent on winning over. In her quest to present the problems of low-wage earning people in America, Ehrenreich's need to demonstrate her wit and social awareness takes priority over playing it straight and making a serious case for people who lack alternatives.Writing as one who has lived in the belly of the beast, I know what it is like to listen to your child scream at night (all night) due to an earache that can't be treated because you lack the carfare and access to transportation to take him to an emergency room.  Ehrenreich needs to understand that for most people, poverty isn't an exercise or temporary excursion that one can walk away from and, if she does understand, well then she does it a mighty disservice with Nickel and Dimed.  I do hope that if this book continues to be used for coursework, it will at least come with a disclaimer or, that students will be provided the option of reviewing an alternative narrative on this topic.
1	1133481600	Ehrenreich, among other passages, blisters through a multi-page rant in opposition to drug-testing after she smokes pot then finds she needs to take a drug test in order to apply for a minimum-wage job. Gosh, it really sucks having to get by on minimum wage if you're expected not to break the law in order to get hired!If I want to listen to an upper-middle class woman who helps others, I'll have a conversation with my aunt: She does "charity work" for a living. It's always so helpful to have a conversation with a woman in a Mercedes explain how horrible it feels to be poor.Ehrenreich flitted about the country leaving each job that became too unsavory to her, searched the internet for more agreeable climates to experience next, kept a cache of money, met with her agent between trips, called a private dermatologist when she got a rash on a job.... et alia.She states she had no intention of torturing herself and knew she didn't live the exact life of her co-workers. In my opinion, then, she should have just stayed home, researched statistics, and provided a meta-analysis of the results. The way she operated, she neither lived the life she reported about nor reported objectively. This is one faulty study. And, to me, an opportunity to espouse her own political beliefs.She needed to make a choice: Be an objective reporter or take a political stand. She couldn't choose, and this book is a reflection of that.
2	1133395200	looking at the book only from the investigative side, it deserves only 1 star, but the writing help nudge it up to a 2.People have already posted about some of the problems in the book, but i have a few more to add. First, why doesn't she find a roomate to split the rent and utilities with. Second, why doesn't she seek private charities to help her out. There are also many unskiled jobs in the areas that she was in where people offer much more than minimum wage, i know this because even McDonalds paid me $2 over minimum wage when i was 16, as long as your willing to work evenings.But most important of all is that her experiments are not realistic because people hold jobs for more than a month, and it takes time to climb up the ladder. She might be paid minimum wage now, but there certainly is room to move up. There are many cases of wal mart store managers starting out as clerks. John D. Rackafeller even started out as a stock boy, making only a minimum wage. Yes it is hard for people to be at the bottom, but it does not say that you cannot move to the top.This woman obviously started her research witha n agenda to prove something, and i can't help but this that this attitude had a serious affect on her research methods.
2	1133049600	I am reading this book for an English class in college. If I didn't have to read it, I wouldn't have. I like the book on it's merit, that it brings to light what a lot of us face in everyday life. However, I do not like the author or the way she went about her 'research'. I have always been taught to do what I do to the best and fullest. Ehrenreich conducted her 'research' with good intent, yes, but she cheated. She took the heart out the 'research' and turned it into a 'project'. Those of us who live this life day to day to take care of ourselves and our families, VERY often do not have 'safety nets' in which to fall back on. Instead, we go hungry, get our power shut off, or lose our homes. I feel that if you are going to conduct a 'project' to shed light on something that is the heart and soul of people, a lot more people than this country would like to acknowledge, then it should be done as we do it: Work for EVERYTHING we have and DON'T have. Besides, was the language and such really necessary or just to 'portray' us in a light everyone seems to already think of us, foul-mouthed and uneducated? By the way, WE CERTAINLY ARE NOT!
3	1133049600	I found the book quite readable and interesting until the point she moved to Minneapolis.  She ends up panicking when she discovers she is going to have to take a drug test and OOPS she has smoked pot (evidently she stopped by in New York on the way to her next investigation and decided to light up).  What followed was a diatribe about the uselessness of drug testing and her lamentations on how much water and diurectics she was going to have to consume and the $30 she had to spend on over the counter "detox" products.  She just sounded like someone who was pissed they had gotten caught and were trying to justify their own indiscretions.  Irregardless of your views on drug use, she just came across as whiney.  In Minnesota, she decides to apply to both Walmart and Menards and is offered positions at each.  She decides to accept both intially and goes to Walmart for their employee orientation which ran from 3PM til 11PM.  She gets home by midnight...decides she can't sleep well, takes a Unisom and goes to bed.  She doesn't have to report to Menards until noon.  When she gets up, she decides she is just TOO TIRED to report for work and blows off the job.  There was a question about her startup salary, but she doesn't pursue it and uses it as an excuse to quit before she even starts.  By now, all I'm feeling is disgust.  I don't know about any other readers out there, but I've had shifts were I've worked all night and had an 8 hour turn around that had to include getting back and forth, eating, taking care of my pets and my home and fitting sleep in there somewhere.  I'm sorry, but I didn't have any sympathy for her.  I've had jobs where I've earned $24/hr and now I'm getting by on $8/hr with no benefits.  In reality, she wouldn't last in the real world.  I had more sympathy for the poor bastards she encountered in her travels who really have to live this life.
1	1132876800	I am disappointed.  I had such high hopes for this book.  I thought I was going to be exposed to the plight of the working class....instead, I was exposed to the simple minded, elitist and often racist views of the author.  I too, am college educated and hold two degrees yet I don't think that gives one the right to use that status as a soap box from which to preach.  I just about put the book down when in one of the first two chapters the author uses the term "niggardly" to describe a situation.  Could that not have been described any other way?  Without the use of a root word that historically has been so devestating.  In chapter one the author masquerades as a waitress and one night is given too many tables to manage.  On page 68 she proclaims "the yuppies are waving me down for more decaf and the black  couple looks ready to summon the NAACP."  The NAACP stands for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People--why would they be ready to call that organization over some drinks? Even using this type of literary banter seems crass.  She does not leave other nationalities out.  She reguarally talks about hispanics, refers to brits as "Princess Di", and dosen't seem content unless referring to her "blond-blue eyed existence."  It really is a shame that what could have been a revealing and intimate look into the working class turned into some kind of weird rant fest.  It was also a shame that I lost my respect for her as a credible source of info/author.
1	1132790400	I couldn't stand this book.  Here's an especially telling passage where she is describing the clothing sold in WalMart:" ... sexless Russ and Bobbie Brooks lines, seemingly aimed at pudgy fourth-grade teachers with important barbeques to attend."Oh, nice, trashing educators!  Education is the KEY to avoiding the desperate lives being described.  And as to her PhD, if she's so smart why is she using illegal drugs AT ALL, especially when a drug test is in her future?  Dummy.
3	1132790400	This book is decent (and so is the play).The author does an awesome project - An upper middle class citizen placing herself in the shoes of the lower class. This isn't anything amazing, because practically everyone knows someone that struggles with a minimum wage job(s); that is, everyone who is not upper class.And it sure doesn't seem like anyone in the upper class will bother buying this book anyway. So, in that respect, it is pointless and ineffective.
4	1132704000	A real eye opener.I am the author of Domestic Abuse All Sides, Domestic Abuse Our Stories and Murder in New England & Closing the Circle.
4	1132704000	I admire the author for going through the rigor of working minimum wage jobs and supporting herself on them.  However, there are bones to pick.  First, the book is very much about her relatively short experiences, without too much about the bigger picture or even about her co-workers, who live the life she's trying out.  Second, she doesn't recommend solutions, maybe because she doesn't feel herself capable of giving any.  What should we do about the growing poverty in this country?  Housing subsidies rather than agricultural subsidies?  Small loans to lower-income individuals (allowing them to afford a security deposit on fairly-priced housing, rather than daily or weekly rate motels, and to buy decent work clothes and other necessities)?  More federal or state laws?  Better enforcement of those laws?She also has a misplaced hatred and angst about the existence of servants.  She repeatedly snipes at people who hire servants.  I've done housekeeping, and my mother used to hire someone to help her from time to time when her health was poor.  It's wrong to treat people poorly.  Poor working conditions and not paying overtime are wrong.  Cleaning a house for money is fine.  The author doesn't want people to be poor or to suffer, but she thinks there's something intrinsically wrong with someone paying another person to clean a house.  Most people are okay and it pays something.  Really, what's the difference between working in a factory and working in someone's house?  I haven't worked in a factory, but I'm guessing the house is safer.  What about working as a janitor in an office building or a public building?  You get called a janitor or a tech instead of a maid, but the work's even harder.I agree that poverty is a real concern, that a low-income woman living alone is in a very precarious situation, and this book put a lifestyle behind those issues: finding jobs, finding housing, figuring out how to eat without much time or money and no kitchen or grocery stores.  But I feel this book needed a part II: some examination and critique of changes we could make that would help our situation.
5	1131926400	This book does a service by given credibility to the hardships of the lower level paid workers in American society. Many of these employers,such as those in the hospitality and retail sectors thrive on employer markets for job seekers, acquiring highly skilled and/or educated workers for lousy pay whose backgrounds add to the financial health of the organization as an intangible asset,intellectual property on the corporate balance sheet.The exploitation of these workers is shameful to America! In Massachusetts for example hotel workers are not entitled to overtime above 40 work hours per week. At retailers such as Home Depot, there is a question about the timing of performance evaluations and " issues" which affect raises attached to those performance evaluations. In addition, there is a question about whether such employers tacitly approve of systematic harassment at the business unit or store levels.America in general has a serious credibility issue with respect to the humanistic side of corporate America or lack thereof. All one has to do is look at turnover rates and lost profitability as a result of employees being hired then quitting before they become fully functional and contributing. How much money does Home Depot, Walmart,Lowe's, Holiday Inn and so on lose in theprocess of hiring,training and employing workers who leave before the training and orientation investment produces ROI?What does it say about us as a culture when we do business with companies that project a people-friendly workplace that is often anything but?
3	1131494400	This book definitely caught my eye when I saw it on the shelf. When I first read the first thirty pages or so, it was very interesting and it made me want to read further, but later on in the book, it was extremely boring. The author had strong statements and had a good sense of humor which I liked but this book was not what I expected it would be. It definitely inspired me because I could relate to her story because I am a teen living off minimum wage. I would consider reading one of her other works because she is a very detailed writer."Nickel and Dimed" is about a woman from Key West, Florida named Barbara Ehrenreich. She works two jobs and maintains a steady work ethic. She works beyond her limits and suffers exhaustion, stress, and frustration. She worked as a waitress, a hotel maid, housekeeper, a nursing home aide, and a Wal-Mart saleswoman. No matter which job she applied for, she couldn't make more than six to seven dollars an hour. She travels to different states to search for better employement and ends up in Minnesota.I would definitely recommend this book to a person that likes a quick read and that is interested in this topic. You may never know if you will like it or not. It was very descriptive and very funny at times, so it wasn't all that boring until the end. The reason I lost interest towards the end was because of the repetiveness. In conclusion, it is still worth reading because it is very inspiring and it was original. I never read a book like this before. Give it a try!
2	1131321600	This is a flawed book.  Barbara Ehrenreich deals with a tough subject, trying to live on very low wages, but her report comes up short.  In much of the book she seems like a person with an economic theory looking for facts to support it.Ehrenreich's method is to get a low wage job and then try to live solely on her earnings from the job.  She does this in three locations: Key West, Portland, ME, and Minneapolis.  The process is doomed from the start.The author flits into an area and therefore has no support system in place to call upon when dealing with life's issues.  She uses only a newspaper and telephone book to find a job and a place to stay.  She declines to contact churches and seems very reluctant to seek out other types of aid.  When she does use secular resources, she is very dismissive of their attempts to help her and never consults them again.  She builds up no knowledge and no goodwill. Then she moves on.Ehrenreich is very negative. Only in passing or never does she mention government programs that might help like Medicaid, Section 8 housing vouchers, or Earned Income Tax Credits.  She whines on at length about the inadequacies of the cleaning system her employer used. She tells us that being a house-cleaner is just too servile a position for a human.Dispite the problems with her book, some of the challenges facing low wage earners can be gleaned from Ehrenreich's write-up of her experiences.  Affordable housing is most notable of the issues she tries to explore.  Unfortunately, the author's methodology is so defective as to render her work nearly useless as a factual collection. We are left with a 220 page opinion.
2	1130976000	Ehrenreich functions as though she is economically illiterate - starting by trying to live by herself, instead of finding a friend, relative, or someone tolerable to share housing expenses and chores with.Her second major blunder is focusing on occupations that clearly are at the bottom of the economic pile, instead of looking for an opportunity for training and a position with benefits (eg. school bus or transit bus driver, teacher's aide). Retailing (especially at non-union locations), cleaning, and waitressing are guaranteed low-wage; the latter two occupations are particularly problematic because of the necessity of competing with a large influx of illegal immigrants. (In fact, Ehrenreich goes so far as to sympathize with the illegals - when they are a major part of the problem, and not our society's responsibility!)Ehrenreich could have performed a valuable service by providing strategies for others to work themselves out of the problem. Instead, she simply complains and wishes for some magic fairy solution - eg. unionize Wal-Mart (hasn't happened, and ain't going to happen).I have particular knowledge on this subject, having been laid off from a high-paying position and unable to get anything near comparable. Instead of following Enrenreich into a low-pay dead-end position, I undertook paid training as a transit bus driver ($7.50/hour), and worked into cross-country trucking (about $1,000/week). Though the latter is very demanding and often hard work (loading/unloading), it clearly pays much better than waitressing, nursing home care, and retail clerking!As for getting to/from work, a bicycle and the bus system takes care of me. Living expenses are cut by living with my wife, who also works. And if I can do it, . .
2	1130284800	I have been engrossed by the book, but not at all for the purpose I'm sure Dr. Ehrenreich had hoped.  I find myself shocked and stunned at the depth of her self denial about where she fits in the class structure she spends the entire book wailing against.  If you want insight into the mind of an academic with no REAL experience living life in America; of the feel-good, squishy compassion Liberals feel for America's great unwashed; of a desperate attempt to lay blame at the feet of everyone but the subjects at hand; then read on.  It'll fascinate you in the way a train wreck might, but shouldn't.  If you can't face checking this out at the library your conclusions upon reading should be; the rich got that way through greed; the rich are evil and fight to make it impossible for working Americans to ever advance.  Her experience corroborates this for her because her social experiment (at which she consistently fails since she is unable to do what these heroic workers do everyday) is the evidently the first time she has ever had to go out and "work".  The rest of us evil middle-class folks who eat out at restaurants occasionally (oppressing our wait staff) and employ home help and buy stuff at Wal-Mart, worked two jobs in college and lived 5 to a house furnished at goodwill.  Before going to college I lived in a single rented room and shared a kitchen.  I made enough money to buy an unlimited trip bus pass to commute to my factory job and to explore other opportunities after work.  We've had the roommates to help with rent, the bills piled on the kitchen table, the car held together with duct tape.  We are, for the most part, where we are through the choices we have made.  Perhaps if the author listened to the maid's quote in her book in which she indicated that she felt she would like, one day, to live like the folks in the houses she cleaned, Dr. Ehrenreich would understand the essence of what makes America great; every person has the OPPORTUNITY to achieve whatever they want to.  There are economic differences in America that should be celebrated because they are precisely what make living here so great.  There is poverty everywhere in the world and we DO need to be sensitive to their plight and work to facilitate them helping themselves.  But you have to see that poor immigrants come here to be poor.  The difference is that their poverty in America is laced with a silver lining of hope.  A hope that arrogant, self-important, middle-class, liberals trivialize and demean.
2	1130112000	I read this book cover to cover before passing judgement on it, and I must say that it is not even worth picking up.  Anyone who has worked a low wage job knows it is not easy to get along, but Ehrenreich seems to have written this book to make herself feel better about being wealthy, to gain some redemption for herself by experiencing what it is like to make a living on minimum wage.  I carried this book with me throughout my business travels, and actually felt embarrased to be carrying it or leaving it in my hotel room.  Pick another book.  This one is a waste of time.
4	1130112000	In the late nineties, Barbara Ehrenreich went under cover as a minimum wage worker to write her own proletariat manifesto on the plight of the low wage working class.  This book has been made required reading for first year students by some colleges and universities, perhaps as a jeremiad about what could happen to those who don't stay in school. Like most liberals today, she cares for the poor as a group, but not as individuals as evinced by all the ways she stiffs them as outlined in the book and below.In an all too genuine attempt to mimic the working poor, she exhibits nearly all of the behaviors that keep low wage workers at the bottom of the heap: 1) She lies about her credentials on applications (do you think she put her PhD under "List all schools attended and highest degree earned starting with the last"?) 2) She admits to doing drugs, and spends a weekend and a large portion of her  low wage income in an apparently successful attempt to subvert two pre-employment drug tests.  3) Once, she turns down an offer of $10 per hour because they want her to work 12-hour shifts, opting for a more leisurely $7.00 at Wal-Mart, giving up $120 a day for $56. Not many people's definition of upward mobility. 4) Finally, while lamenting "at will" employment laws, she takes advantage of them at every position by quitting without notice, once by turning in her uniforms to a co-worker, and at another time simply walking out the door abandoning an already short-handed and overwhelmed restaurant staff in the middle of a food service crisis partly of her own making. No self-respecting waitress would actually do this fearing the admonition; "You'll never serve lunch in this town again." She does this even as she laments the burden placed on her by others who are absent from her work groups for one reason or another.At Wal-Mart, she seems to spend a lot of her time trying to foment talk of organizing, while at the same time opining that that kind of talk will get you fired at Wal-Mart. She seems not to care, as in the waitress fiasco, that those poor minions will be stuck there in whatever mess she has helped create long after she's skedaddled. Perhaps a person who lives life as an independent contractor can be forgiven for being aghast that employees would actually care about the companies that provide their livelihood.While piling up statistics on the woes of low wage workers, she glosses over the absenteeism, drug and alcohol abuse and legal and personal problems and sheer lack of ambition that often keep people on the lower rungs of the economic ladder. The cook at one of her restaurants is fired for dealing crack. When working at a house cleaning service, she can get only one co-worker to admit that she would like a house one day like the upper crust domiciles they often clean. When Eastern European immigrant is set to be deported after he is caught stealing from the pantry of a restaurant where he is a dishwasher, she sees his theft as a sort of proletariat victory and excuses the kid saying he was probably hungry, as if every day at lunch it would be ok for all the hourly workers in the neighborhood to go rake all the Toastchee's off the shelves of the local 7-11 and bolt.She uses data from that last refuge of reprobates, the admittedly agenda driven ACLU to decry drug testing in the work place, but tosses aside the larger question of whether it is a good idea to have the Associates dealing drugs among the tidal wave of juveniles in the Wal-Mart parking lot, or a waitress with hepatitis from a shared needle serving food at the neighborhood I-Hop, or a guy who has taken to stealing to support his habit working on the loading dock of the local Home Depot.Not that she should ever have to worry about going back to low wage drudgery; she is an excellent writer. Her pose crackles more often than not. She definitely exhibits the skill and polish necessary for her to dwell in the lofty heights of Harper's magazine, where she is apparently a regular. Unfortunately her vocabulary would put this book out of reach of the people she's writing about, and perhaps many of the college students for which it has been assigned. Indeed my middle class nineteen year-old sophomore would have trouble understanding some of the passages without the threat of defoliating her Webster's-it's clear she's writing about low-wage workers, not for them. Nor are her leftist leanings ever far below the surface. The word "proletariat" gets tossed around like the dealer button at a Texas Hold'em tournament.Sadly, she doesn't even mention what is probably one of the greatest problems that keep sober, hard working, honest people at the bottom of the heap, which is a lack of education or a marketable skill set, preferring to blame their plight on predatory hiring tactics and capitalist greed.  She doesn't dwell on the education levels of most of her low-wage coworkers, but only one is mentioned as having any college, and he is a Tech-school drop out. These people are far from stupid, but they are not exactly starving intellectuals waiting for their big break. Their TV fare is in the Jerry Springer category and no one reads during breaks or their brief lunch periods-not even the paper. When she proudly reveals her PhD to the members of her work group just before bugging out yet again, she is met with blank stares. Any attempts she makes to share the more philosophical or existential aspects of their drudgery with her co-workers is met with condescension. Nevertheless, she is obviously proud of her own educational stature.  Once during a minor medical emergency, she contemplates telling her co-workers that she has a PhD., in hopes that that will get them to take her advice. Makes you think that instead of trying to get her Wall-Mart buddies to talk about organizing a union,  perhaps she should have been waxing poetic about the merits of Title IV funding.So the question is not can one "get by" as a low wage worker, -that begs a definition-but instead, can a liberally educated left-leaning writer overcome her ideology to obtain a real understanding of America's underclass? The jury is still out.
4	1130025600	Barbara EhrenreichEhrenreich worked for three months in a variety of minimum or just above minimum wage jobs. She, through experience, shows how the numbers simply do not add up to the amount of money it takes one person to live in a manner that enables them to return to work the next day. The current scenario is that wages are too low and rents are too high. By living in some seriously substandard housing Ehrenreich didn't have to sleep in her car but coworkers without a financial cushion did.By having one of the enviable unionized jobs that guarantee reasonable wages my coworkers and I don't have the level of financial stress as the people in the book but we do have supervision that interferes with the job being done well and efficiently.It is a relief to have it recognized that almost any job is demanding and stressful and that most employees knock themselves out trying to their work well. Ehrenreich speculates that her coworkers want the approval of their undeserving bosses. This might have been true at first but when I saw approval was the last thing that could be expected in return for good work, I did good work just to create as orderly a work environment as possible.Nickel and Dimed is way more interesting than expected partially because Ehrenreich entrenched in the lifestyle and partially because Ehrenreich likes and respects her coworkers.It may look to a more affluent reader like it isn't worth working for substandard wages. It is to anyone's credit that they support themselves. And yes, it is better to have enough money.I picked the book up at an airport bookstore and was so engrossed the two sets of takeoff delays were barely irksome
5	1129766400	I think Ms. Ehrenreich is too kind in her book! Employers like Walmart and Home Depot are far worse than the public thinks because these companies have huge advertising budgets to create a friendly, caring persona which actually masks militarism and dictatorship. How much money does Walmart and Home Depot lose in the form of training and hiring employees only to lose them near or even before their actual workday?Companies like Home Depot encourage employees to work on their own personal time to develop skills needed for the job or gives them so much work that employees have to cut breaks and such just to get it done. Or they give so much work that it cannot be reasonably done and failure to do so results in harmful employee performance evaluations.In the retail sector in particular, it is widely known that these businesses prefer turnover to improving wages as more senior employees get periodic increases.Better to badger an employee with time under their belt than have their pay slowly gradually increase over the long haul.I shop both Walmart and Home Depot and by far the employees of Home Depot look much more stressed than at Walmart. How many people working in jobs such as these are really happy? How many are captives to them because of a poor economy that exploits their abilities?
4	1129680000	I do not agree with Loyd Eskildson.  The point of Ehrenreich's experiement was to see if it was possible to live off of the wages she made at "bottom of the barrel" jobs.  She wasn't trying to cut costs in her life, but to see if it is possible for a single person working for $7/hour to be able to pay for food and shelter.  While I am aware that she could have stayed with a family friend or other person to cut living costs, she chose not to in order to prove that one can not make it on their own in a minimum wage setting.  She was even forced to dig into her emergency money to pay downpayments on apartments, furthering the fact that American's working poor must struggle to stay afloat.  While Eskildson may have other ways of cutting costs and still living comfortably, I beleive he missed the point of Ehrenreich's investigation of the working poor.
5	1129680000	I thought it was easy for the author of this book to start a different life that was so much different from her own life. She had a lot of insight to give, concerning the treatment by management toward her and her co-workers.  The reason why she left many of her jobs was because of poor management.  She needed to work a second job, in order to make ends meet; however, she decides to keep her car in Key West, Florida, which is where she presently lives, instead of choosing public transportation.I don't think this decision was out of place compared with the book, as she has said that having to wait for buses would not be an interesting read.  (p.5).  I liked her whole approach in becoming a low-wage worker, settling down to eventual motel living and budgeting and saving where she could.It seemed to me that her getting jobs was easy related to her getting an apartment.  The job market offers financial stability, as opposed to the housing market, where the rent was to high to afford.  The highest paid low-wage job paid $10/ hour at Wal-Mart in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and obvious she takes this.This book gets five stars because I admire her willingness to stick to this project to the end.  I would feel that it would be hard to abandon your previous well-to-do way of life andlive in a whole different world that's defined by the low-wage job or jobs that you have.She has quite a bit of experience from both worlds.  I think her concluding remarks were also strong about the working poor, who sttruggle for the benefit of others, and how in the wake of their work situation they will challenge their bosses to pay them what they are worth, instead of putting in arduous hours of labour for a lousy take home pay.
4	1129680000	I am responded to a review done by LoydEskildson from Arizona. This review was posted on October 11, 2005 entitled "It's Her Own Fault." The purpose of the book was to show how people in America live off of full-time jobs with low wages. "Ehrenreich functions as though she is economically illiterate..." The only response I can think for that is of course she did. In the Introduction Ehrenreich states that she was overqualified. The woman had a PH.D. and was doing this experiment as a project to be later written about in a novel. She made herself appear to be economically illiterate because most individuals who are working $6-7/hr jobs may not have an education. When she interviewed for jobs the author claimed she was a divorced homemaker, with three years of schooling under her belt who was returning to the workforce. The only time she found a friend was to use them as a reference for her prior work of "housecleaning". The jobs she took were in the bottom half of the economic pile because they were the only jobs offered to her. Cleaning hotel rooms and houses were in her level of expertise. According to the qualifications she had given her employers. As Rule #1 to start the project she limited herself to not falling back on her education or prior experience she had had. As for our society's responsibility for illegal immigrant workers it is America the "Land of hopes, dreams, and freedom.". Immigrants may come to the states because they feel they can get by and it is better than where they are living. There were other people,actual U.S. citizens working the same jobs as the immigrants. Each occupation Enrenreich chose was designed to see how real people live in America. Some may not have thought to take training to be a bus driver. Others may have thought they did not have time or had the resources to find better paying jobs then waitstaff or a cleaning job. The only part of the review I did agree with was how vital public transportation would have been. Even though her first limitation was not to fall back on her "old" life she always kept a car as a mode of transportation. However, those in the position of these jobs may not have a spouse or family to live with to split the rent. Some that do have a significant other may also have other mouths to feed or backs to be clothed on a measily $6/hr wage.Besides, her lack of help to those she could have in this book. Holly, for example. She tried not to break character by fulfilling the role of a woman in that occupation because she was seen as a homemaker not as a writer doing field work. Although she did for her own sake by calling Dr.'s and specialist which someone living on low wages may not know how to do or be able to afford such medical care.
3	1129680000	I chose to respond to a particular review by Scott Baier written on January 14, 2005. Praising Barbara's methods and skills, he neglects to mention the benefits that Ehrenreich began her journey with. While I agree that Ehrenreich should have set certain boundaries and limits for her story, I think that ruling out public transportation as her main mode was not the best idea. She also paid for her auto transportation with credit cards that she would not have had if she had actually been playing an accurate role. Many lower-class people rely solely on public transportation. Baier was so impressed with the book that he even went as far to state that "the life of Barbara Ehrenreich will change yours forever". I feel like this is a huge understatement and that while Ehrenreich's work is on the right track to revolutionary literature, many of her initial methods are flawed.
3	1129680000	I had several issues with the "It's her own fault!" review of Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed. First of all, not knowing anyone to live with when starting off is not `economically illiterate', as stated in the review. In fact, Ehrenreich did rely on the help of a friend for a temporary place to stay while in Minnesota. I think that we must remember that not all people we see working minimum wage jobs or even on the streets asking for money have resources such as family or friends with an ability to provide for them. It seems obvious to me that anyone who had these resources would indeed use them, so we must respect those that do not.I also think that when this reviewer suggests that Ehrenreich had trained for a better position, he neglects the time and the money that such training would take. Is it not more fruitful to take the best available job at the time, rather than waiting and taking time to train for another position, getting poorer by the day? Several other comments I found to be ignorant included those concerning the waitressing profession (actually very profitable when tips are good) and illegal immigrants (they are people too!)This reviewer feels that his knowledge is particular in the `low wage lifestyle' department, but I feel that he had many advantages that Ehrenreich and many other working-class poor did and do not have when trying to enter the minimum-wage workforce. This man had a high-quality resume, as well as enough resources where taking the time to train for another position made sense. Our reviewer also has the luxury of available and affordable public transportation, and a working spouse to fall back on. Overall, I feel that this review took many of Ehrenreich's methods out of context, and fails to have an open mind to the goal of her project. The situation that Ms. Ehrenreich put herself in is in fact better than many of her co-workers during this experiment. And objectively, just looking at our population... if living the low-wage lifestyle was really as easy as our reviewer claims it is, why are there so many people still living in such poverse conditions?
4	1129593600	Orrin C. Judd, mentioned certain comments that I disagreed with.  He mentioned that because Ehrenreich refuses the advice of finding a church, it is "hard to take her complaints about the lack of available help seriously, knowing that her anti-religious sensibilities prevent her from accepting one of the most readily available sources of assistance."  I think there are some factors we need to take into consideration regarding this comment.  If the only available source of assistance is a church, then there is definitely a lack of available help that needs to be taken seriously.  It is also important to remember that her anti-religious sensibilities are not an excuse for the lacking sources of the town she lives in.  He also says that Ehrenreich is "working the jobs that these folks work, but she's hardly living the life they lead. She doesn't participate in their lives, neither individually by visiting their homes or having them over, nor communally by doing the types of things they do in their off hours."  However, I believe that not every low-wage worker has much time to visit their friends.  There are immigrants who sometimes have to work two shifts per day in order to survive.  They sometimes have barely anytime for themselves, and it wouldn't be fair to forget that they need to rest.  However, this is my personal point of view.
4	1129593600	M. Costello's review berates Ehrenreich for taking opportunities from the poor and exploiting them in a way that makes them look childish and helpless. I wholeheartedly disagree with these notions. First of all, Ehrenreich clearly did not aim to exploit the poor, which I feel is obviously stated in the book. Rather, her reasons for writing about this subject were actually to exploit the system that causes there to be such a group as the "working poor." Ehrenreich successfully illustrates that there are too many people working more than full time, yet are still not able to support themselves and their families. Secondly, Ehrenreich's research did, admittedly take a job from someone, but, I believe the benefits of her research far outweigh the fact that she took on several low-paying jobs for only a few months. Her book, a bestseller, exposed the conditions of the working poor to a large amount of people who may not otherwise be aware of this situation that affects so many Americans.
4	1129593600	I disagree with the review entitled "It's Her Own Fault!" by Lloyd Eskildson.  In this review, he talks about how the author should have chosen better jobs, one's that have benefits and are more highly qualified than those at "the bottom of the economic pile".  However, the author clearly states in her book that she could not have applied to these types of jobs such as bus driver and teacher's aid because of her unusual situation.  With these jobs, the interview and application would be much more intense, and since she has no references that don't combine her new life with her old one, this would be impossible to fill out.Also, the comment he makes about competing for waitressing and cleaning jobs with illegal immigrants was not true through her experience.  She said clearly in the book that in the jobs where she waitressed that most, if not all, of her fellow servers were from the United States and were white.  When working in the cleaning job, the author also states how the vast majority of employees were white and from the United States.  He also states how she should have biked or used public transportation to get to and from work.  However, in Key West and Portland, I am sure that there is little if any public transportation and biking miles and miles to get to the jobs she worked would be extremely stressing; adding on to the eight hour plus work day with miles of biking would result in ongoing exhaustion.
3	1129593600	I am writing in response to Stephen Rosberg's comments on the book. I feel that people can have more fulfilling and meaningful lives making minimum wage than the author described because of the fact that she never allowed herself to have a real life as a person living at minimum wage. She never made any friends or had any real connection to the community that she was living in and so she was missing out on one aspect of life that other people get to enjoy. Having money does not make a person's life easier, a person always needs a support system and she never gave herself that. She went into the "experiment" trying to keep herself from getting involved in the lives of the people around her and wanted people to know that she was different and did not belong; she did not want to be a person who had a minimum wage job, but instead wanted to observe their finances.Although I did not like that aspect of the book I felt that there were some very important points that people who do not have minimum wage jobs do not ever think about. Money may not be the key to all happiness but there are a lot of ways that it can make life easier. As Stephen said a lot of the people who were unhappy in their lives had children at the wrong time, but for many people who do not live that kind of life do not have to give a ton of thought to whether or not it is an inconvenient time for a baby, and if it is can normally adjust some expenses and their lives will continue on. So even though it might not be the most accurate description of how life is for people who live on minimum wage salaries it does open people's eyes to differences and hardships that they do not normally think of.I agree with Stephen that there are many things that the author could have done to make the situation more realistic and that money is not everything. At the same time though, life is very different for people who live on minimum wage salaries than it is for those who do not. Making people aware of the extreme differences in the way of life of people living on minimum wage incomes and those who do not is important because it will create a more understanding society and make people more conscience of the needs of those who do not have the same kind of money that they do.
3	1129593600	Overall this was a pretty good book. My usual reading choices are not along these book lines but I enjoyed it. Ehrenreich's trials while going through the low-wage jobs were intersting. I could relate to a few points within the book. So, for those of you that are interested in a little light reading with a serious kind of tone this is the book for you. I hope you enjoy it.
1	1129593600	I did not agree with "Flbeachbum" from Ormond Beach, Florida.  This person posted his/her review on August 3, 2005 titled, "Life in the Chump Change Lane."  This person exclaimed of how great the book was how he/ she would rate it five stars. I do not agree that this book was so great. I though of the book as being biased because Ehrenreich only worked and lived in certain areas. She chose her settings according to her preference as oppose to many residents of the United States and other countries who are born and raised in situations they are in. She also makes reference to many stereotypical situations or groups of people such as her talking of where she wanted her next location to be in chapter three. She considers Sacramento or somewhere in California's Central Valley where she would spend the spring, "But warnings about the heat and the allergies put me off, not to mention my worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the crap jobs and substandard housing for themselves, as they so often do," (page 121).  I thought that statement was quite rude and disrespectful. In that one sentence, she categorized Latinos to have "crap" jobs and to have largely inhabited California. There is a large amount of immigrants in California, not just Latinos, so I strongly disagreed with "Flbeachbum" stating that this book deserved five stars. I think he/she give readers a false pre- tense that the book they will read is or will be one of the greatest books they have ever read.  When in fact, it has prejudices, biased views, and selfishness. Another point I recognized about the author was how she was conducting this study of how long she can last or how successful she can be with low waged jobs in various areas, but she managed to keep her debit card or spare cash handy in case of emergency. I think if she was going to do the study that she should have been able to put herself in exact or same situations as the under- privileged in our society. For example, people in society are not able to find or just have extra cash in case of mishaps or a debit card for them to fall back on if times get tough. I think if she did not have the debit card, then her mind would not have been so tainted and she probably would have been settling for other jobs instead of being picky due to the area or type of work or even rate of pay. Overall, I just think she should have been fairer.
4	1129593600	In response to Stephen Rosberg's review to Nickel and Dimed I strongly disagree with his stance. He claims that he has worked a long-term minimum wage job and his very happy. Stephen stated, "The real reason the people in this book are living such marginal lives is NOT because they are making low wages. Its because they either had kids they couldn't afford or are making bad choices in life...i.e. smoking pot or drinking excessively". I think he is making a ridiculous generalization of the poor community. It is true that due to poverty and depression some people do fall back on drugs for support, but only because of extenuating circumstances. These "bad choices" are only made because the constant abuse and mistreatment the poor community has to deal with daily. There is a good probability that Stephen is a Caucasian and that seriously influences his treatment and value in today's society. I think Stephen is unjustly comparing himself to poor individuals that truly struggle to maintain a life on minimum wage.
4	1129507200	This is a response to the review posted by Orrin C. Judd entitled "Not Really Trying to Get By."  In his review he expressed the opinion that it was unrealistic for Ehrenreich to be living alone.  Indeed it would make her life easier to split rent with a roommate, however, it is not always possible to find one (especially when you are only going to be at that particular location for a month or less).  Furthermore, it seems unfair to assume that all of the working poor have resources in family and friends to lean on when time are unusually tough.  Ehrenreich discussed many observations of families living together or people finding roommates in order to afford rents.  She did not simply omit this approach to saving money from her book.Judd criticizes Ehrenreich for not utilizing churches as a form of assistance.  Although a church may have been helpful, it could be possible that she could not find the time or energy to find one with applicable services after she had been job and apartment searching all day.  Judd also gives criticism for not partaking in the lives of her coworkers or doing the types of things they do when not working.  Again, after working all day, searching for more affordable housing, and often looking for a second job, Ehrenreich was likely too exhausted to do anything but go home.  It was also evident that she did not have extra money to be spending on entertainment in her off time, as those with more than one income or a roommate to help with rent might.What Ehrenreich "brings to the table" are a series of problems the working poor face: high rents, low paying jobs, a difficult work load, inadequate benefits, and oppressive work environments.  She gives the reader insight to what it would be like to be struggling in a low wage job.  Her book makes it a little clearer that the poor are not poor due to laziness or other personal faults, but rather are victims of a society that chooses to overlook their struggles.
5	1129420800	A scary eye-opener about what life is really like for the working poor in America: by some counts the fastest growing segment of the US population. It makes me wonder how people in low paying service jobs--waitresses, department store clerks, supermarket checkout staff, university cleaning ladies, etc.--can remain so upbeat on their jobs. It makes me want to be extra nice to them. How can people LIVE on the 7-8-9 buck an hour salaries being offered them for the jobs out there within their reach? How can they feed, cloth, shelter their children? What exquisite hell it must be to constantly live a paycheck ahead of the streets. I don't know what the answer is or if there is an answer, but this book was a non-fiction horror story that made me feel terrible for the millions of Americans for whom this sort of employment is reality.
5	1129420800	After reading several of the customer reviews I have found it fascinating to see the differences between the many responses.  One of the reviews I found most interesting is titled "Exploitation of the Poor for Personal Gain," and was written by M. Costello who responds in the form of a quote which is sarcastically responded to.  M. Costello is basically saying that all Ehrenreich did was take the opportunity away from a truly poor worker who may have actually needed one of her many jobs or homes to survive; and that her final statement simply undermines the poor in order to sell her novel.  Personally, I don't agree with this at all and don't feel that it is true.  Although you can't really deny the fact that by truly being out there in the workforce she was taking a job and other resources that someone else could have had, she was doing it as a form or research and not to simply take a job from someone else.  By her holding all of those various jobs and writing her novel she has affected thousands of people, many more then the one or two other people who may have taken the jobs that she had at the time.  Furthermore, the information she got from holding those jobs was necessary for her understand what it was like to live the life of a low wage worker as best she could.  And her response to the experience she had didn't "exploit" the poor "treat them like children," but rather brought a different perspective for those not in the lower class.  People who are responding to this book who are low wage workers may not necessarily agree entirely with her portrayal of the lower class or with her experience, however, for people who are lucky enough to have never had to live in those kind of circumstances it is incredibly helpful to read Ehrenrigh's novel and learn, not that poor are unable to help themselves at all, but that the conditions and assistance that poor are getting is dramatically bellow the level which it should be and by no control of their own.
5	1129420800	This is in response to the review by Stephen Rosberg of Atlanta, Georgia, stating that "you can have a decent, happy, satisfying life making under ten bucks an hour".  It brings up the issue that there are differing degrees of "happiness". You worked the late shift, seven days a week and enjoyed your job.  You are an exception--to work seven days a week without an emotional and physical break is difficult to do. There are many who would not be physically able to work seven days a week for any length of time.  When you were doing it, did that mean that you were getting time-and-a-half and double time for Sundays?A second point is that different parts of the country are less expensive than others.  I am a college student in Boston, and the cost of living here is very high.  Until reading your review I knew very little about the cost of living in Atlanta, Georgia.  You did not mention how recently you paid $565/month for an apartment or $138K for a house.  Housing costs must be considerably less in Atlanta.  Boston ranks among one of the most expensive cities in the country.  There are many things to do:  Boston Symphony, art museums, theatres, opera, restaurants and many places to shop.  It is a great place to live, but it is not much fun for the working poor who have opportuntiies around them, but no money to partake in any of the activities.In Boston heating costs alone are very high. Apartments run near $1,000/month without utilities.  The only way to bring this cost down is to have a one-bedroom with a couple of people bunking together.  Automobiles are a luxury that many of the working poor could not afford--excise tax, the cost of parking, car insurance and then the gas.As a member of the working poor, making minimum wage, it would be only a matter of time before you would be looking for another job to supplement the low paying position--just to live.  You suggest working a couple of years and getting to know the people doing the jobs--when would you have an opporutnity to socialize or the money to entertain them?  There would be no extra cash flow for going out to dinner.  There are low paying jobs--Wal-Mart, Merry Maids and hundreds of hotels, but to "have a decent, happy, satisfying life making under ten bucks an hour" would be challenging in Boston--or anywhere in the Northeast, such as in Maine where Ehrenreich tried to make it.Those that are currently in low-paying jobs or looking to be hired for a minimum paying job should be encouraged to accept a position that will have some built-in upward mobility--on-the-job trainng, a way to develop a skill, educational opportuntiies through tuition programs will give them a determination and motivation to do a good job and bring them some success and dignity.  You did not mention how you made the jump from $6.50/hour to $33,000.I agree with your statement that it is "not because they are making low wages".  There is more to it then just the "low pay".  It is the group of people who become your peer group at work and the goals they have for themselves, medical insurance and diet and nutritional information available to them--not settling for just Doritos or Goldfish for lunch, and having an opportunity to be respected.  Dignity is worth lots!  It all begins with setting individual goals and working very hard to attain them.  Happiness is relative and in Boston and all of the Northeast, it comes at a price greater than a ten-buck an hour job!
4	1129420800	I thought this book was wonderfully written and a completely realistic look into the world of living on minimum wage.Some people reviewed this book as being unrealistic because they thought that the people in the book didn't live happy fulfilling lives due to their lifestyles (smoking pot and excessively drinking). The majority of the people in the book lived simple lives and still could not get by.The personal lives of the workers in this book had nothing to do with them getting by. No matter what their circumstances were, everyone was struggling to survive.This book was an eye-opening look into the world of long term minimum wage "working poor."
4	1129334400	As I was looking at customer reviews on Amazon, I saw a diverse response from the audience some people loved the book and others thought that Barbara was exploiting the poor. There was one review that stood out to me. It was written by John, and the heading read "Better than Bait and Switch still depressing."  Here John commented that we already know how it is living in lower classes (its difficult), and what this book is clearly doing is making us depressed. I on the other hand disagree with him. We automatically believe that is difficult because some of us are able to make a living in good satisfying condition, but do we really know how it is not? I don't think so, unless you had to go through a stage in life in where you struggled to make it. We need to be opened minded and really get in depth to see what life is really like and that's what Barbara did. She became one of them and worked like they did, trying to see how these people's everyday lives were like living in low level conditions. The book doesn't necessarily get one depressed, it saddens you, but one has to realize that its reality and its going on in the U.S and us as citizens reading and thinking that is sad, depressing,etc  can contribute and try to make a difference instead of just commenting on how sad or depressing it is . Even if it's a small contribution, you are still trying to make the lives of others a little more easier.
5	1128902400	Great book, it will keep you reading 'till the end of the book
2	1128902400	Hey Barbara, you can save more money if you don't smoke cigarettes.
1	1128729600	Brilliant, really. One could sum the novel up as such:"I thought there was a shortage of employment oppurtunities in poverty-stricken areas, or at least there was an under-circulation of wealth. So I, a college-trained writer with an ample income, will move into areas where jobs, low-rent housing, and money are all scarce and soak up resources, denying the portion given to me to someone who really needs it. Then, when all's said and done, I'll write a novel that exploits the poor and treats them like children, unable to help themselves at all, so that I can publish a national bestseller. Further, I'll make the brunt of my statement in the last chapter, where I agitate for violent revolution in a trite, forced, sledgehammer-message sort of way."Other than that, glorious novel. Really exquisite.
4	1128556800	Barbara does a wonderful job entering the blue collar world and exposing the grinding, borderline life experienced by so many.  It was enlightening indeed to learn she did not "stand out from the crowd" as an employee by dint of her education.  Higher education was always pushed by my parents as being a leg up on the competition.  I was frustrated, however, that she missed key opportunities that would have made living in the blue collar world a permanant possibility.She refuses to take a roommate and she does not prepare her own meals.  Those two major expense items - rent and food - could have been easily halved.  She also has the benefit of several restaurant jobs where leftover food at the end of the shift could have been salvaged to feed herself (and possibly her theoretical roomie.)  Although not a blue collar person, I have lived on below poverty level incomes in various years of my life, and am well acquainted with using up, wearing out, and making do, as it is said.  She complains that there is/was no kitchen facility, however a minor investment in a crockpot and dried beans could have had many a hot, nutritious meal ready for her at the end of the day.  I have not seen a motel room yet that didn't have an electrical outlet and a sink.
5	1128470400	It's been a long time since I reviewed a book for anything besides a BME forum.  "Nickel and Dimed" is too important a book to let pass.  The writing is excellent, and lays out the facts in an easy-to-follow, no-nonsense styleBottom line:  you CAN live on the salary that the author received.  If you don't get sick, are willing to work two jobs, and allow no time for a personal life.I was given this book by a European, contingent on my passing it along to someone it might educate.  I'm giving "Nickel and Dimed" to a friend whose daughter is goofing off in school.  I don't know if, by the time she's out of school, there will even BE jobs... but she needs to know that, without an education that can help her to find a better paying job, she's going to have a miserable existence.  (It won't be a "life.")This book should be required reading for all students.  Not only should it help to point out that minimum wage is no way to live, but it should also serve to remind everyone to treat wait staff, maids, and retail workers with kindness.  They work darned hard and have nothing to show for it.
5	1127865600	This book is a rich, sometimes moving, sometimes enraging trip to a land that more and more millions of people in the US inhabit. The world where you work minimum wage or little better jobs, with no benefits, often no vacations, no union representation, and often no respect for your personal dignity. Scores of millions of people work these jobs. And everywhere else from Universities to coal mines, management is trying to push workers with more rights, pay and benefits back into the conditions of these workers.Ehrenreich's gift here is that she focuses as much on how this effects the hearts and spirits of the workers she meets and lives among, as she does the economics, or the physical difficulties.  She is very honest about what was rough and what was too rough for her to take.It is an inditement of the culture of this country, that this excellent book is one of the only ways you can learn about this life.  No one should miss this. Moreover, instead using condemning these workers as immigrants who should not be here, unintelligent, or shiftless folks, we should read this book to see how the same difficulties and more were the lot of this Ph. D and powerful intellectual in great physical shape for her age.It is not some kind of ignorance that makes the lives of these workers so miserable, but corporate policies designed to continue their exploitation as well as the complicty of the big business controled government.Ehrenreich's visit to minimum wage world has its limitations, but those limitations emphasize how much more difficult this world is to live in, than the bleak picture she paints in this wonderful book.Ehrenreich isn't permanently anchored to the jobs she works unlike scores of millions of workers in this this country.  She can always get back to her life. She take lengthy breaks to return to her life as a well-paid lecturer, writer, and general social democratic whiz. She  relys on her regular personal network of friends and family and a distant boy-friend for emotional support. She worked too short in jobs and quit several times when things got to be too much for her.The real world she explores is permanent for tens of millions of workers in this country. The same trends are taking place in the industrialized countries of Western Europe and Japan, in some places quicker than here, and some places slower.Most people outside of the working class are ignorant of this world and its divisions.  Someone here thinks the UPS workers are in this world. But, No one in the low wage, or even high paid working class, would confuse UPS workers with low wage unorganized workers that Ehrenreich talks about. UPS workers are protected by one of the best Teamster contracts other than MasterFreight--a contract earned by a hard-fought and successful strike several years ago. UPS workers probably start at around 15 or 16 bucks an hour with full medical and dental benefits and regular vacations and sick time.I have a good friend who was in an awful auto accident who was flat out told by his doctors that had he not been protected by the full medical benefits that the Teamsters had won for him, that they could not have brought him back to being able to walk and function on his own. That's the essential thing. None of these workers in the places Ehrenreich works are unionized, one of the key factors that Ehrenreich rightly points to in creating these problems.Ehrenreich illustrates what the job market is for many if not most workers without skills, particularly if you are older, particularly if you are not hooked up with family, friends, or if your friends or family are in the same or worse condition you are.  She also shows the basic crisis that exists in regard to housing which yields not only homelessness, but the floating working homeless who live in cars or run down motels.Her point isn't how to avoid this. Ehrenreich has already done this by gaining a Ph. D. in biology and becoming one of the country's top writers on social issues.  Her goal is to show how a larger and larger percentage of workers live and are exploited and oppressed.She's not talking about anything exceptional but what is becoming the rule in employment. After all, one of her worst examples is when she worked for Walmart,THE LARGEST EMPLOYER IN THE UNITED STATES IF NOT THE WORLD.  She also wrote in a time of economic boom and labor shortage. In fact, she sought out areas where there was a job shortage and where living conditions were supposed to be more affordable than elsewhere.She's not talking about making 6 bucks an hour in 1978, but in the late 90s. I can remember working in a now-defunct department store where other employees envied the fact that I made $4.50 an hour. Like Ehrenreich, I couldn't imagine what the single mothers working throughout the store did to make ends meet, though they were doing the kind of work Ehrenreich did at Walmart. Every Thursday when the hours for employees were posted around the time clock, I would see some of these women begging and even crying to the supervisor for more time for more hours, because nobody in the store except the automechanics made 40 hours a week.Ehrenreich's book also gives a face to how many occupations once done by professionals or even owners of their own business are now industrialized, done by national, and international corporations who study how to reduce the work force to its most atomised, hard worked, and least paid.  Gone is the neighborhood store owned by someone from the neighborhood, and who but the very well off does their shopping any more in stores that can afford to have professional sales people who make a decent living who have time to learn something about the products they sell to wait on you.  Gone for the most part are the mom and pop restaurants and diners operated by a family.They are replaced by operations where everything an employee does is timed, controlled, and disciplined with one thought in mind, maximizing profits and minimizing the rights and dignity and independence of the work force.Yet, this is no natural process of modernization like the car replacing the horse and buggy. It is part of a bipartisan social war, the same social war that has resulted in the greatest concentration of wealth in the hands of the big business owners in the history of this country, the same bipartisan social war that has reduced the minimal social benefits that once existed.  In a series of industries like the airlines, Western coal, and meat packing, a constant campaign has been waged to change the status of workers, their pay, their benefits, and to oust unions.If workers think that their vaunted skills are what keeps their wages high, they should look at the airlines. Despite the highly-skilled techinically demanding nature of airline jobs,  management is constant drive to push back unionization, pay, and benefits in the airlines. The airlines have even tried to end end the professional status of pilots. As it is today they are shunting more and more flights onto non-union affiliates where pilots receive lower wages.Even in college teaching, which I do part-time, the same process has taken place in the past 20 years.  At most universities and colleges, you are very lucky if an undergraduate student gets taught by an actual tenured professor who has job security, benefits, and a professional salary. They are more likely to be taught by graduate assistants who get paid not much more than the people Ehrenreich describes and who have to have extra jobs to live or by adjunct professors (which I do).  An Adjunct is just a fancy word for a temp with no job security, no benefits, and no hope of ever getting a permanent teaching job. What professors did twenty years ago to become heads of their departments, or even deans at their universities, are now being attempted by newly minted Ph. Ds and MFAs in the often vain hope of getting a starter job. Indeed, most full-time professors I know  at the college I teach at take on extra classes at our college or others to make ends meet.The real question involved is unionization and political action. Working people have to fight back against the social and economic war against us.  Whether a job pays well has nothing to do with the amount of skill involved. Ehrenreich shows that most low paid jobs she worked require significant skills.Good paying jobs with benefits are a result of unionization. Truck drivers before the great Teamster organization drives of the 1930s, Autoworkers before the UAW organized the big three in the 1930s and 1940s, and railroad workers before the great organizing drives led by Eugene V Debs at the end of the 19th Century used to be considered low-paid jobs done by dumb workers who didn't deserve benefits or consideration. People who worked in stores or restaurants like Ehrenreich did in her book were then considered of higher status and pay.Things are different now, only because of unionization.  For those liberals who think that this is all due to some satanic evil embodied in Bush, I remind you that Ehrenreich's experience took place during the Clinton "boom."Of course, the Teamsters, the autoworkers, and the rail workers weren't unionized by the kind of business unionism most unions practice today. They didn't organize themselves by depending on the Democratic and Republican politicians or by trying to "get along" with management.They were organized by mobilizing the masses of working people in and out of these industries for political, economic, and sometimes physical battle with the corporations and the police and government that stood behind them. They were organized by reaching out to the unemployed, to immigrants, to minorities, to farmers, to young people outside of these industries and showing that the fight for the union advanced their cause.This is what we need today.
1	1127692800	It is really sad at the number of good reviews this book gets.  I guess the readers of this book have silver spoons in their mouths and assume that just because someone makes 7, 8, 9 bucks an hour that they must automatically have terrible, horrible lives.  That is completely untrue and has not been my experience.  YOU CAN HAVE A DECENT, HAPPY, SATISFYING LIFE MAKING UNDER 10 BUCKS AN HOUR.  I know that is a shock to most of the people who gave this book good reviews, but its true. I used to work at a hotel where i made $6.50 an hour.  I worked the late shift and i worked 7 days a week.  I enjoyed my job and had a nice apartment in a high-rise apartment complex that i paid $565.00 per month for.  I could pay my bills and had extra money to go shopping with from time to time.  I had good friends and i was happy.  There, i just shot down the tenents of this book and all the good reviews it has gotten.I have since moved on to a higher paying job, but i am not any happier than i was when i was making $6.50.  I now make $33,000.00.  Not a high income by any means.  I have a house though (i paid $138,000.00 for it) a car, food on the table, i am single and very happy. I am a manager of a hotel and i have housekeepers making 7.50 or 8.00 bucks an hour.  NONE of them lives the kind of life this author describes.  They all have their own cars, have nice apartments/houses, have nice and decent clothes, and can take care of their kids.  They also are married and have the additional income their husbands bring in.  My housekeeping supervisor makes 9.00 an hour and so does her husband who is a cook.  So they make a total of 18.00 an hour together.  That should teach people to get married BEFORE they have kids.  The real reason the people in this book are living such marginal lives is NOT because they are making low wages.  Its because they either had kids they could'nt afford or are making bad choices in life...ie. smoking pot or drinking excessively (like the author seems to like doing).  Additionally, i have known many people throughout my life that have made or are making under 10 an hour and are still living satisfying happy lives.  They have a roof over their head, can eat, have pets, and go out from time to time.  So let me repeat, the reason the people in her book are unhappy is not because they are making low wages!!!!  And for all you people that think people who make under 10 bucks an hour are unhappy, try working those jobs for a couple of years and get to know the people doing them (something this author didnt do).  You would then realize that people can live happy and fulfilled lives doing so.
1	1127606400	It will confirm what you already know.  The lower to middle class worker has it very difficult.  No kidding?  We couldn't tell. Like "Bait and Switch", this book will offer you nothing but depression.  There is nothing in this book to suggest or offer some hope and comfort for the middle class worker.  If you read this book or listen to the audioCD, know what you are getting into. Depression.
3	1126310400	I picked up this book after reading her latest book called "Bait and Switch".  I have heard some very good reviews on this book and how powerful her journalistic work is.  Therefore, I had some really high expectations.Here are the highlights.  The book is very well written.  Barbara writes in a style that brings to life her subject matter, and keep you engaged throughout.  Even when she pontificates on a tangent, it is well articulated.  Additionally the descriptions of the day to day work involved at the "entry level" was also well done.  I have worked many of those jobs in my life and found her depictions to be realistic concerning the difficulty of the physical work as well as the learning skills required to be proficient.  Many of these people are in fact quite capable and work day in day out without much recognition for their efforts.  On this point she really nailed it.While it is well written, and I believe well intentioned, overall the book is typical of the ideological views of the far Left, for which the author is a card carrying member.  Therefore, there are absolutely no solutions presented anywhere in this book about the plight of those trying to make a living working entry level roles.  Hard to believe really given the premise.  You would think she would at least offer up something.While "undercover" the author herself fails to even attempt to improve her voluntary plight by taking advantage of her intelligence to make better decisions and having some patience.  Moving three times to "try poverty" in three different places, is hardly the actions that would elevate someone out of poverty.  Further she seems to have fewer coping skills and less maturity than the "subjects" she is supposedly writing on.  We watch her principles and values erode as she gets tired.  We listen to her attempts to start union activity at a Wal-Mart even though she admits that it is not a panacea (In fact it would do more harm than good to those who would organize).In short, while I fully support her attempt to bring a view of those who work hard every day only to fall farther behind, in this book her approach, logic and conclusions are far too flawed to have the kind of impact I wish she would have had.
4	1126224000	This book's main strength is Ehrenreich's colorful prose.  She is a great story teller and successfully conveys the conflicting emotions an upper-middle class liberal experiences when immersed in working class poverty.  Despite dealing with a difficult subject, it is a surprisingly a highly entertaining read.I was expecting more penetrating social analysis.  This book is not going to convince readers using rigorous logic or abundant data - at least not to the standards of argument I hold.  However, what it does do is even beter, it makes the reader empathize with the plight of the working poor.  Its appeal is mostly to one's heart, not necessarily one's mind.After reading this I am amazed at the strength and perseverance of the US's working mothers.  Ehrenreich had the advantage of psychological self-confidence, a known safety net in the case of emergencies, and most importantly of all, no children and no negative peer associations.  Despite what some reviewers believe, having social connections is not always a plus, especially for the poorest.  The wrong peer groups frequently lead to a worsened situation, not an improved one.Any serious minded reader looking for a more analytical approach would find it deeply rewarding to purchase and peruse "The State of Working America" by Mishel et al.
1	1126224000	Anyone can fail at something if they try. As Steven Malanga critiques in his book "The New New Left", Ehrenreich sets out to prove the thesis that you can't "make it" in America in an unskilled, entry-level job. However, as Malanga shows, Ehrenreich sets the experiment up to fail, and she doesn't stay on at any job long enough to gain any of the social support factors or promotions that might make the job sustainable. Hence, she goes into the experiment, with a view to forcing it to fail, so that she gets the results she wants. For example, people might start out at a low-end job, but then move up, develop social ties, get a second job, and end up far better than she portrays, because she refuses to do any of that. If entry-level jobs in the U.S. are so terrible, why do millions of people all over the world want to have those jobs ?
4	1125360000	Nickel and Dimed, On (Not) Getting By in America was written by journalist Barbara Ehrenreich. This book was published in 2001 by Henry Holt and Company. In this book, the author, Barbara Ehrenreich, decides to conduct an experiment. She wanted to find out how single parents in the working blue collar class. She decides to pack up (or not) and move into housing that people of that lifestyle live in. The book is divided up into sections, based on the separate places that Ehrenreich lived in. Ehrenreich had a leg up, she thought, on her future co-workers because she was in better physical health than they were. Little did she know she was wrong. "Something is wrong, very wrong, when a single person in good health, a person who in addition possesses a working car, can barely support herself by the sweat of her brow. You don't need a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents too high" (Ehrenreich 199).Throughout the book, Ehrenreich tries to show the reader that the working class citizens of America, those who work at McDonalds, or any other fast foot chain, housecleaners, or any other type of hired cleaner lead a hard life, and barely manage to get by. Some do not manage to get by and end up working two full time jobs just to "make ends meet."The reason I chose to read this book is that my grandpa had recommended it to me. He had heard about it and said it was a good book to read, not too hard to understand, and it taught a good lesson. I am glad I took his advice, and I advise others to read this book as well.
1	1125187200	"Negative" does not even begin to describe my reaction to Barbara Ehrenreich and her book, NICKLE AND DIMED: ON (NOT) GETTING BY IN AMERICA.Ehrenreich attempts to convince us, through her "immersion" into the life of a low-wage worker, that this segment of the population cannot afford basic necessities (and we're not talking about cigarettes and movie rentals). THIS MAY BE TRUE, but in no way does she give a convincing argument. In fact, her experience appears engineered to ensure that she proves her hypothesis: The persona she creates for herself is atypical; how many fifty-something-year-old women are there out there who are able-bodied, able-minded with no debilitating addictions who have no family, no friends, no community connections, no job skills or training whatsoever and do not even have a cook pot to their names? She picks worst-case-scenario locations, refuses many offers of help, does not stick with any job for more than a few weeks, and she takes frequent "breaks" from the life, even calling her personal dermatologist when she gets a rash.Secondly, Ehrenreich's tone is arrogant and insulting, and her point of view is glaringly one-sided. Throughout the book, she reminds us constantly of her real upper-middle-class status, and she can't wait to tell her co-workers, whom she stereotypes as "worn" and "gray-faced" (I shop at grocery and home improvement stores all the time and wouldn't describe the majority of those employees that way) that she really isn't one of them. She is standoffish and doesn't really try to get to know those with whom she works: If she had, she might have been able to give us stories of REAL people in low-wage situations.  And the supervisors who are all portrayed as jerks? Aren't they under pressures as well? And don't higher-wage earners also have to submit to invasive procedures such as drug testing and fingerprinting? Along with the above, she slams everyone else from Jesus Christ to Martha Stewart to people who read John Grisham novels. Some might find this humorous; I consider it unnecessary and mean-spirited.Finally, especially for an author who has a PhD in biology, this nonfiction book is seriously lacking in research. Where is the bibliography? Scattered footnotes representing a few repetitious sources do not suffice. I expected to see historical information about the work force in America and low-wage jobs and how we got to this point so we can understand the situation; I expected to see information of actual help to people- maybe names of communities which have growing economies and more affordable and available housing, or contact information for organizations which help people to get back on their feet. The fact that this information isn't there only strengthens my belief that Ehrenreich has manufactured a self-fulfilling prophecy to showcase her socialist beliefs.If you like the type of book in which an investigative journalist/writer immerses himself/herself in a particular sub-culture in order to understand it, expose it, and/or educate others about it, I recommend Ted Conover's NEWJACK:GUARDING SING SING, or Tony Horwitz's CONFEDERATES IN THE ATTIC: DISPATCHES FROM THE UNFINISHED CIVIL WAR.
2	1124755200	It is worth more like a nickel or a dime.  Unless you enjoy dark-minded griping and the glorification of cursing a lot.  This book could have been something great, but the author clearly believes she is way smarter than everyone else.  The Dipper despises elitism and it is everywhere in this book and in those who insist I am too dumb or mean to not see it their way.  Tough times can build character unless some pandering ivory tower type insists that that is too hard.  Someone clearly has a god complex, but despises God.  Sounds like daddy-issues to me....
4	1124755200	Ms Ehrenrieich's project proved very fruitful and if there was a point about the economy to be  made  her research definitely made it.  As a writer living a middle class suburban lifestyle  she set out to  prove how low wage earners were surviving on  the wages most companies were paying the supposed unskilled laborer.  On location in Florida, Maine and Minnesota the author was hired for various unskilled jobs and discovered that  it was difficult for the average worker at the level researched to make ends meet.  Some conclusions  by the Economic Policy Institute  and the author was that  the economy was the problem and that it would take a family  of one adult and two children, 30,000 to live on.  That of course does not include very much meat nor internet services.  There is a very good evaluation at the end and some of her stories are very funny.
1	1124668800	This book was recommended and looked good in the reviews.  It even started out well, but after you are around a third in the book you start wondering when where the actual 'meat' of the book is going to start.  It doesn't.  Instead, you learn several things about the author.  The author: (1) is quite jealous of people that are successful in any way, (2) seriously hates Christians, and (3) enjoys crude humor about body functions and obscene language.The obscene language gets worse and worse as to book progresses.  You gradually learn that the author isn't really trying to learn anything about the people or jobs.  She spends most of her time griping about how hard the work, mixing in crude ways of insulting workers of many types.My conclusion?  Don't waste your time.
5	1124582400	this book was in great shape and the fast shipping made this transaction pleasant
5	1124496000	Ehrenreich described her life when working as a waitress, cleaning-team worker, and Wal-Mart employee in various parts of the U.S.  Working hard for mininum wages,often working more than one job, she survived boring and miserable working conditions, could not enjoy the comfort of a roof, especially in safe neighborhoods,for any length of time, struggled to pay for basic foods, clothing, transportation, had almost no health care, and missed her real life. Her book should influence every American in planning and viewing lives around them.  Selma Bonham
2	1124150400	The main issue I took with this book was that Ehrenreich refused to try to get any higher paying job that required a drug test, because she wasn't willing to give up on recreational marijuana smoking.  She even tries to justify that this is acceptable, because many of the working poor escape into drugs.  When she finally does try to get a job a Wal-Mart she researches how to beat the drug test.  I can't feel sorry for someone who wants to break the law.  Ehrenreich doesn't spend too much time delving into ways to see how people can escape from poverty on their own; all she offers is the utopian idea of a heightened minimum wage.  People do escape poverty by attending school, they go to community colleges, they get grants and scholarships.  People up to their 30's can join the military and learn job skills and money for school.  Ehrenreich never gives these ideas any thought, because it would apparently be better to smoke up and get a handout from the government.
5	1123718400	Real-life poverty, as close as you can get to it.This is an eye-opening story of the lives of those who are an injury or day's wages away from disaster. Barbara saw it up close; people who can afford to live week to week in a hotel but are unable to save money to move to a decent apartment due to substandard wages, or worse yet, living in a parked van in back.She watched in horror as a co-worker at Merry Maids continued to work with a serious ankle injury because she could not afford to take a day off without pay, and there was no worker's compensation to pay for any medical treatment - X-rays, ankle brace, pain medication, etc.She worked side by side with people who worked multiple jobs to make ends meet and wondered how they did it.Granted, she temporarily left a very comfortable lifestyle behind and took thousands of dollars with her as a cushion should disaster strike. She cheated and called her allergist when a stubborn rash appeared due to reaction with chemicals she encountered working at Merry Maids.Despite the advantages she had over the people trying to live off minimum wage, she gave a very accurate description of what it is like. She shows that it can happen to anyone, and once you are entrenched, the cycle of poverty is hard to break. I believe that everyone should have a copy in their library, as it is a reminder of just how challenging life can be, no matter how employers like Wal-Mart and Merry Maids may dress it up. Minimum wages and high benefit costs do not help employees build a secure future for themselves or their families.Minimum wage is just that,minimum. Without proper cost of living adjusted wages and benefits, the next generation is in danger as well.
5	1123286400	Too few people here (or anywhere) seem to realize the significance of this book and how terribly accurate it truly is.  All of it.  From beginning to end.On thing that bothers me:  I keep seeing the phrase "dark humor" used to describe it but I found "Nickel and Dimed" to be brutally honest and if anything, understated.  Since it describes my existence so very truly that it's scary, I find it very hard to find the humor in this.  I repeat:  This is my life.  Even though I'm capable of making more than $7 per hour, $10 - $13 per hour isn't much better in a world where having cable and Internet and phone service is the norm (we chose internet over cable, thank you very much for asking).The intimidation, the "don't talk to anyone", the low wages, the beating self-esteem takes on a daily basis in the name of feeding your family.  The idiocy that did actually cause someone to complain and did end up with me being fired just because I was the one polite enough (read: dumb enough) to give the complainer my name. (Thank God I actually had a second job or we'd be homeless).There's a list of questions at the end of the book and one of them states:  Elrehreich is white and middle class.  She asserts that her experience would have been radically different had she been a person of color or a single parent.  Do you think discrimination shaped Ehrenreich's story?  In what ways?Yes, discrimination shaped her story and I'll tell you how:  She actually got called BACK for a couple of the jobs she applied for.  And the people on the floor were willing to talk to her not treat her like a pariah.  Also, when she was addressed she didn't hear "Wassup!" instead of "Hello" or "You GO GIRL!" with sadly inflected emphasis instead of "Good job".She experienced a bit of sexism and didn't even realize it, or maybe she did.  Did you notice that every job she took was populated by women but every last one of the supervisors were men?  White men on top of that?Had she been a single parent, she would have taken the $10 gig without a second thought and found someone in the neighborhood to watch her kid and hope they weren't a crackhead or worse, however some of the best house cleaners and babysitters during the day are crackheads at night and it does not interfere with the quality of their work, I will give them their due.I'm glad she wrote it but do I think it will change anything?  No.  People see what they want to see and they will never see poor people as anything but the dirt under their feet (and could you hurry and clean that please?)By the by, she could have gotten work as a customer service rep or telemarketer, gotten paid $10- $13 per hour, would have been treated just as badly and would have gotten the same info.  You can be just as blue collar sitting behind a desk as the waitresses, janitors and floor staff at Wal-Mart.  All those customer service representatives all of you reading this just LOVE to curse out on the phone?  Well don't.  Because they're people too whether you can see them or not.  And if you read this book, well then you really have no excuse because you should know better.I'll give her five stars for just for living it and putting it out there, which is more than I expect from most white folks to begin with.You go girl.
3	1123200000	This is a well-written, interesting, anecdotal book about a well-educated woman's sojourn among the working poor. If only the author had stopped there, the book still would have been a hit. Instead, the author chose to claim it to be representative undercover reportage. Unfortunately, she does not do this with any objectivity, as she views all that she does through liberal, rose colored glasses. Nor does she live as the truly working poor do, as her existence is isolated, cut off from all support systems. While the author received raves from the New York Times Book Review, which acclaimed the author as "...the premier reporter of the underside of capitalism", the reader should remember that the New York Times is the bastion of East Coast liberalism and take such praise with a grain of salt.The author comes across as a somewhat vapid individual, whose inherent biases and expectations prevent her from being able to live as a true member of the working poor or interact with them on a truly human level. She objects to having to take drug tests in order to secure a minimum wage position, stating that the costs of such a test outweigh the benefits, without any clear understanding, other than the cost of the drug test itself, of what the potential costs of employing substance abusers would be. She authoritatively uses statistics willy-nilly without grounding them in an appropriate context. The author does, however, establish one very important key point that would certainly tend to keep the working poor running in place, and that has to do with the cost of housing. The book leaves little doubt that there needs to be more affordable housing for the working poor. Yet, the author offers no suggestions as to how that would best be accomplished.Moreover, the author, during her work as a cleaner for a cleaning service company, seems to have a lot of negative things to say about people who have had some demonstrable achievements in life. The author seems to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is. Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just those of bad management by those in positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.
4	1123200000	This was an easy read and illuminating to anyone who hasn't ever had to live paycheck-to-paycheck.  If the reader is looking for solutions, they aren't here but it will make you think differently about our waiters, maids, and all the other people who make our lives better.
3	1123113600	this book wasn't horrible, but i found it repetitive. The author seemed to be saying the same thing over and over. Got this book for highschool because it was a summer reading book we were suppose to read. I haven't finished it yet. Tho much of it is little repetative i did find it interesting.
5	1123027200	I give "Nickel and Dimed" 5 stars because it's a great read, though  it can be be variously interpreted, depending on one's perspective. Actually what fascinated me personally was the apparent shocking awakening the author herself had upon experiencing life among the working class. I wouldn't have thought that her education had protected her so much; most people I know have worked their share of horses*** jobs at one time or another regardless of their credentials. But then, maybe the circles I travel in make me naive in another sense. In any case, it's a safe bet that Ehrenreich's enlightenment from her experience has been humbling, and renewed her gratitude for her 'real' station in life.This personal odyssey of infiltration into low-wage America will teach something to everyone, regardless of background, and do so with much humor, as opposed to reading tedious and dry statistics. Consequently "Nickel and Dimed" is easily recommended reading for all.
5	1123027200	...And anyone who votes Republican or opposes minimum wage hikes should be required to write a book report on it.
3	1122768000	This is a well-written, interesting, anecdotal book about a well-educated woman's sojourn among the working poor. If only the author had stopped there, the book still would have been a hit. Instead, the author chose to claim it to be representative undercover reportage. Unfortunately, she does not do this with any objectivity, as she views all that she does through liberal, rose colored glasses. Nor does she live as the truly working poor do, as her existence is isolated, cut off from all support systems. While the author received raves from the New York Times Book Review, which acclaimed the author as "...the premier reporter of the underside of capitalism", the reader should remember that the New York Times is the bastion of East Coast liberalism, and take such praise with a grain of salt.The author comes across as a somewhat vapid individual, whose inherent biases and expectations prevent her from being able to live as a true member of the working poor or interact with them on a truly human level. She objects to having to take drug tests in order to secure a minimum wage position, stating that the costs of such a test outweigh the benefits, without any clear understanding, other than the cost of the drug test itself, of what the potential costs of employing substance abusers would be. She authoritatively uses statistics willy-nilly without grounding them in an appropriate context. The author does, however, establish one very important key point that would certainly tend to keep the working poor running in place, and that has to do with the cost of housing. The book leaves little doubt that there needs to be more affordable housing for the working poor. Yet, the author offers no suggestions as to how that would best be accomplished.Moreover, the author, during her work as a cleaner for a cleaning service company, seems to have a lot of negative things to say about people who have had some demonstrable achievements in life. The author seems to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is. Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just those of bad management by those in positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.
4	1122336000	I found the book very interesting and funny.  You will probably like it if you enjoyed the episode of "30 Days" where Morgan Spurlock and his girlfriend try a similar experiment--living on what they can earn from working for a temp agency and in a coffee shop--I think this book may have been their inspiration.  I would also highly recommend reading this book if you are planning on following the news about the recent AFL-CIO split.  If you have any doubts about the necessity of a new grass-roots, pro-labor movement, this book might change your mind.  Though I would have liked the book better if the author had mixed an account of her own experience with interviews of her co-workers.
3	1122336000	Nickel and Dimed is one woman's self study on low paying jobs and living accommodations in 3 cities in America.  The author began her journey in Key West, Florida as a waitress.  The first chapter of the book chronicles her attempts at finding employment and simultaneously finding a place to live that does not exceed her ability to pay but is still reasonable given her commute to work as well as personal safety.  Next she travels to Portland, Maine where she is employed both by a retirement home and a maid service.  Here she describes the physical difficulty with regard to the work as well as the difficulty making ends meet even with two jobs.  Finally, she finds herself in Minnesota in the ladies department at Wal-Mart.  This book is her investigation on the conditions of jobs that are low paying and how employees in these situations are (not) able to support themselves and their familes.Ehrenreich has an admirable cause at heart by attempting to "live how the other half live" and give this experiment a try.  However it is disappointing in its execution.  Firstly, she begins the experiment with money to get herself started.  This, alone, is not a realistic way to begin to relate to the poor.  Secondly, at all times she has a car - either her own, or a rent-a-wreck.  I think the rent-a-wreck was supposed to help with her sense of humility so that she did not arrive to these jobs with a car that would out class her coworkers, but what she failed to simulate was the fact that most of her coworkers probably did not have a car of their own, but got a ride, walked, or took the bus.  Finally, in times of illness, she did not seek out long lines at free health clinics or wait for hours in expensive emergency rooms, but instead called a doctor friend of hers who called in a prescription from thousands of miles away.All is not bad in this book.  Ehrenreich does an excellent job of opening the reader's eyes to the true problems of low wage jobs.  The housing market is leaps and bounds ahead of hourly saleries across America.  People who work in these jobs for a living do not have the skills nor the luxury to pick up and move on to something better if they are temporarily disgruntled with working conditions.  Many have to work two and three jobs to support a family that they never see because they are always at work in an effort to put food on the table.  But the down turn is that the author inserts herself into this situation in such a half hearted way and with such incomplete effort as to detract from the importance of her subject matter.In the end, it seems that what Ehrenreich truly discovered was more about her own self and character than about those that work for $7 an hour.  The reader too learns much about the drive and perserverence of the author.  But is this what the book is supposed to be about?  I think not.  If you want something that truly gets it right, try to watch the very similar topic done on the show "30 Days" by Morgan Spurlock.
4	1121644800	I was framiliar with this author from her book Global Woman which we covered in a Women's Studies course my freshman year in college.  I really enjoyed her unique writing style and so two years later I finally got around to reading  Nickel and Dimed over a summer break.  The subject matter is incredibly fascinating and Ehrenreich writes with her usual amusing observational tone that makes the work lighthearted and entertaining, while reinforcing the grave situations she is reporting on.  I did find that the book dragged towards the end, since many of her situations were similar city to city, and I didn't particularly enjoy the lengthy Evaluation segment at the end, but I understand its purpose in bringing the book to a conclusion.  Entertaining and also illuminating, I would definately read more from Ehrenreich.
5	1121385600	Put simply, reading this book is likely to create a social awareness in open-minded middle and upper class readers that will be nauseating yet glorious, while leaving the plurality of Americans who live hand-to-mouth nodding their heads knowingly.  Ehrenreich correctly notes in one of her concluding paragraphs that the working poor are among the few true philanthropists in this country, expressing almost monastic acceptance of low wages and no benefits so the balance of humanity can live in relative comfort.  These people go unnoticed and unappreciated doing the work the relatively prosperous have the privilege of taking for granted, operating under the false-consciousness that is the individualism of the American Dream and praying to the God of Small Things for handles on life, health, and sanity all the while; in short, this book give a whole new meaning to Thoreau's almost proverbial "lives of quiet desperation."  Highly recommended.
5	1120694400	Journalistically speaking, Ehrenreich's weaves exacting humor, remarkable depth, and a polished style to deliver us a glimpse into this pressing topic. Her prose is a wonderful example of well-researched investigative journalism. I wish more Js and editors would allot the time and money (not to mention the immeaurable courage) to attack the nondiscussables Ehrenreich aims to uncover.
1	1120435200	Near the end of my high school days, 3 weeks ago actually, I found out that along with my admission to a particular California State university came a summer reading assingment. Now I know that colleges are by nature fairly liberal, especially out here in CA, and while my own political stance, particularly regarding economic policies may be more right wing than the average college student I was still shocked once I started reading this book.I am by no means extremely right wing, I believe that rather than a one time handout for the poor or underprivileged the government should set them up to succeede based on their own merits. Barbara Ehrenreich, as the other reviews make incredibly clear, is not of the same political opinion of me. If the reviews aren't enough she even says as one of her rules that she will allow herself "No Marxist rants," just the kind of journalism I want to read.While I did disagree with almost every single idea present in this book, I managed to continue reading through chapters 1 and 2, despising every second of it but still pushing through. Then I got to chapter 3. This is where she is applying for a job at Wal Mart and finds out she'll be tested for drugs. As I've said I am a recent high school grad, so needless to say I know my fair share of pot heads and "social drinkers".Ehrenreich says that she had an "indiscretion" involving marijuana which may keep her from passing the drug test. First off any respect for her that I may have had went right out the window. I have friends that are frequent smokers of marijuana and I know they can be perfectly kind people, however smoking pot is a sign of irresponsibility as I'm sure anyone with a television has seen the commercials trying to keep our youth off of pot. That means I no longer have ANY respect for her as a journalist or writer, smoking pot is an inexcusable act, especially for a 40-50 something writer.However, my personal feeling aside, her smoking pot and "detoxing" goes against her experiment. She smoked before she was getting a job in Minneapolis, however once she was there and finding a place to live, she had to detox. How did she detox? She went on her laptop, a luxury that the "poor" wouldn't generally have. Sure the internet is available in librarys and such, however she didn't use gas money to get there, she used her laptop and researched on the internet where she could purchase chemicals to help with her detox. She found out she could go to GNC, a very pricey store, and spend 30 bucks to buy the chemicals. Where'd this money come from to detox? How about the money to buy the weed?  She violated the rules she set for her own experiment in order to detox to get a job, not a luxury that most poor "entry level applicants" would have.  In my opinion the Key West police ought to go to Ehrenreich's house, cuff her and book her on using illegal substances.All in all, Ehrenreich's book, while entertaining at times, is at best a biased study, and at worst complete Marxist propaganda. Buy this book if you are extremely liberal in economic issues, or if you have to read it as a summer reading assingment, otherwise pretend you never heard about it and as other reviewers have said, "save your nickel and dime".
4	1120089600	This is a great book from the standpoint of someone with serious credibility substantiating the difficulties faced by the majority of Americans.I have been homeless after being laid-off,only later to be underemployed even after getting a usable college degree,working very hard and "doing the right things" as everyone around me encouraged me in these things.Some might call me a loser, but i even went so far as to write letters to dozens of employers offering to work for free in exchange for a chance to upgrade my skills and get a positive letter of recommendation- no one gave me a chance even then.To add to Ms. Ehrenreich's observations:1) There are very few safety nets in America,contrary to popular belief. If you get to the point I was, you will learn for yourself.2)In working for one major retailer EVERYONE knows(not Walmart) some of my own experience:a) after spending 3 hours typing 10 pages of constructive ideas to improve business for customers and employees( while increasing profitability )on my own time and sending them to corporate, all I received back was essentially emails saying- "Who are you?"/"Why do you care"?/"Stop bugging us"b)when telling a junior that i worked hard to ensure he succeeds, the response was "it doesn't matter"-that manager was promotedc) when informing another junior manager that customers were leaving angry because we could not fulfill basic customer service from being short-staffed, the manager responded-"no problem- they'll be back"d)another full-fledged manager,when told certain tasks didn't get done because there was not enough staff and everyone was doing the equivalent work of 2-3 people, responded- "what is the maximum range of an excuse"- that manager by the way, being a new member of America's wealthieste)having wages that might qualify as below poverty level and working very very hard just for that, i approached my manager asking for overtime or help as I was going to be homeless and could not afford the rents in the area, that manager went on to cut any overtime available to me
1	1120003200	If I could have given this book 0 stars, I would have. I thought the book would be about individual stories of ACTUAL people who are struggling to make it in todays world. With so many of these types of stories out there, I will never know why this lady decided to "play dress-up" and see if she could go from elite class (with her PhD that she constantly references, along with the fact that she "has the privelege of being white and speaking english")to living how the "other half do." To top things off, she DOESN'T see how this group of people lives because she 1. wont live anywhere she considers "unsafe"2.she wont go without her satisfactory level of food intake3. she keeps an ATM card handy "in case"None of these options are available to the people she is trying to immitate. This book is just a advertisment for socialism.What is particularly interesting is the fact that Ehrenreich is promoting such a system, when in fact she is a wealthy elitist.I also found it disturbing the way she is promoting the "workers" when in reality she is just using them as evidence for her warped political ideology.
5	1119744000	Here is the nasty reality of low-wage work in America, with some very insightful reflections on what it does to those who have to endure it, and our gigantic failure, as a society, to take any kind of steps that could be called fair, or just, or compassionate, to rectify the gross inequities of the market's "invisible hand" (a crude and often vicious mechanism). People who could live lives of some dignity are harried and stepped on and denied the first basics towards betterment - so that in the end they succumb to a helpless acquiescence.  The sadness and the loss of potential are enormous.For the life of me I can't see what those people who dismiss the book and its author are smoking. It's a perfectly honest and straightforward account of experience. What part of "it's impossible to live any kind of half-decent life on $7 an hour" don't they understand? (My wording, not Barbara's)One small suggestion: When I lived in Montreal, rental expenses were tax-deductible, just as mortgage payments were. (I don't know if they still are). Although admittedly the income tax levy on low-paid workers is pretty small, every little helps. Then those who have to live in by-the-week motels should logically be able to deduct that cost too. Why should one's major accommodation expense be deductible if you are prosperous enough to buy a house, and denied if you're not, when you incontestably need it more?
4	1119571200	This book seems to be a love it or hate it one.  Either way, it is a worthwhile read, because it will make you think differently about the people cleaning your house and ringing you up at Wal Mart.  My book club was split on the book--some found Ehrenreich superscillious in tone right from the start, and so everything she said was grating.  She did have an slightly condescending attitude of, "oooh, look at me, slumming it like the poor people, ohhh," but it would be pretty hard to have any attitude other than that.  She does admit that she is privleged, and tries to defend herself by saying (p. 6) "So this is not a story of some death-defying undercover adcenture.  Almost anyone could do what I did--look for jobs, work these jobs, and try to make ends meet.  In fact, millions of Americans do it every day, with a lot less fanfare and dithering."The section on working for Merry Maids was my favorite part of the book.  I never realized how un-clean they get your house!  People respond much more to the scent of clean and to the redistribution of dirt with a ditry rag, so these cleaning services are very superficial and offer little in the way of germ- and dirt-reduction for your house.Ehrenreich makes one excellent comment in her concluding remarks:  the wealthy get a housing credit in the form of tax deductions for mortgage interest.  Where is this housing credit for the people who really need it, but don't have the capital to make an investment in a house?  Even a fraction of the standard mortage interest deduction could really help the working poor.
1	1119225600	The author takes a series of menial jobs which she works at halfheartedly along with others who do the same.  She laments the fact that one cannot keep oneself in beer and marijuana on minimum wage.  With a work ethic like that, how could anyone hope to get by?  This book was just stupid.
5	1118707200	In this book Social Commentator Barbara Ehrenreich embarks on a series of low paying menial jobs in the quest to see if one can financially  get by in America and still  live a normal life.  She soon discovers that she is now a member of 'The Working Poor' and to her dismay finds out that renting a trailer is considered by many to be a step up the Social and Economic ladder. One has to feel a great deal of sympathy for her co workers who "give their all" with little financial reward for the work they are doing so well.What I found most vexatious about the various reviews of this book  is that it seems that if one makes a valid comment and criticism about the Capitalist System In America (which only benefits a select few) that one is immediately labelled a "Communist" or "Socialist". After reading this book you will soon learn why so many young people choose to become drug dealers rather than become employed for Minimum Wage in an unskilled job with all of the humilatiation that is inherant in these so called "careers".
4	1117670400	I originally stayed away from this book because I heard that the author didn't actually put herself in the sink or swim situation of the low-wage workers she was trying to find out about.  Nevertheless, her journey was a fascinating one that will keep me from getting cranky or impatient during my future encounters with these mimimum wagers.We (and by that I mean educated, upper-middle class, white collar twits) expect the world of maids, clerks, servers, attendants, etc. but what do they get?  Much of them don't get a living wage, that's for sure.  I worked these kinds of jobs for almost 10 years but I was always up my way because of education and (to a lesser extent) privilege.  The people the author meets in the book are living out their lives in precarious, stressful poverty while at the same time working their asses off.This depressing subject is often made wickedly funny because of Ms. Ehrenreich's coarse wit and sharp prose.  And I have her to thank for putting words to my feelings of resistance every time we talk about hiring a "cleaning lady".  Says Barbara:  "I just don't want to have that kind of relationship with another human being".  Amen.
4	1116979200	I personally know how accurate Mrs./Ms. Ehrenreich is! I was homeless after losing an average paying job in New England and eventually had to settle at a major retailer NOT Walmart!More affluent people might be inclined to blame me 100% for my experiences,but  I tried everything, including proposals for free work in exchange for skills upgrades and positive references and there were no takers. I went to college for 20 years to get a degree.I have found in my work experience that there is a grand illusion of an abundance of good jobs when in fact good,decent jobs are very scarce and most of us have to settle for jobs essentially run by some benevolent but most NOT,dictatorships operating as corporations. For me, America has not been ripe with opportunity,rather 1-step from being homeless nearly my whole working life.After 20 years of working several simultaneous jobs,sometimes up to 4(2 FT/2 PT)to pay for school and "get ahead", the end result is a retail job working for a company that blasts the airways with wholesome,friendly,warm imagery and happy,healthy employees who look taken care of. The reality is I have not had health insurance for a decade, have little or no ability to increase income through such vehicles as overtime and find an abundance of employers who don't know me but judge me and will not offer me an opportunity to help them and myself. Where were all the opportunities and jobs when i needed it? Would any of the personnel managers who dutifully sent me a rejection letter feel bad if they knew i became homeless when all I asked for was a job with a liveable wage?
4	1115337600	Nickel and Dimed is the insightful product of Barbara Ehrenreich's experiment in journalism.  She took it upon herself to set out and try to live on minimum wage (just slightly more than), in order to gain first hand knowledge about plight of the poor. For a year, Ehrenreich gave up her comfortable, established, upper-crust life, and ventured into three different regions of the country to try her hand as an unskilled laborer. Cushioned only by her car, laptop, and $1000 start-up allowance per move, she headed for Key West, Portland, Maine, and Minneapolis. On her journey, three guidelines Ehrenreich set for herself were that she not rely on her higher education, never become homeless, and always take the highest-paying job available. She ended up working various stints from waitressing to housekeeping to retail at Wal-Mart.Through her own experiences, Ehrenreich attempts to paint an honest picture of the lives of the working poor. Although it's a great challenge to be able to do this in a relatively short time (and with "emergency funds" to fall back on), she does get her message across. She concludes that it's next to impossible to survive on minimum wage. At times having to take on two jobs at once, imagine having to provide for a family in addition to taking care yourself. A serious impediment too is that these workers often can't afford medical coverage.As Ehrenreich experienced first hand, living a day-to-day existence puts incredible strain on both the mind and body (not to mention spirit), which is thoroughly exhausting, even if you're "lucky" enough to have a "sit-down" job. This and other points in the book help dispel misconceptions that the poor are lazy and that they can always find a better job. However, as Ehrenreich discovered, even "unskilled" work, requires some set of skills, and not everyone has them.I think this is a book that everyone will benefit from. It's a quick and easy read. Ehrenreich's humor always comes through (I love the parrot), keeping this serious subject from becoming too weighty. It definitely sheds light on a realm that largely goes unnoticed and unappreciated, in the shadows of society. We could all use a healthy dose of humble-medicine.
4	1115251200	This was a really good book.  It was very insightful on a different way of life.  It has made me become aware of dissimilar lifestyles than the one I am used to.  She illustrates very clearly the struggles of poverty and what many people have deal with on a day to day basis.  She gives the reader an inside look and experience of what it is like to not get by in America.  She distinctly describes the hardships of making ends meet with gaining six to seven dollars an hour.
5	1115251200	Nickel and Dimed is a fantastic novel that depicts with perfect clarity the trials and tribulations of America's low-wage or unskilled workers. By experiencing their lives even if it was only in some instances for a day, gave her the insight she needed to write this novel. It calls to our attention the people we overlook everyday while getting our food at a restaurant or walking by a housekeeper with her cart in the hallway of a hotel. This is a very educational novel about the "invisible" workers of America.
1	1115164800	I was not very impressed with this book.  I found the author not authenticly caring about the people that she worked with.  She did not get into their lives more than very superficially and really examine how they made ends meet.  It was my opinion that she actually looked on her co-workers with disdain through the entire project.  She made some efforts, like with the maid service employee, but after reading the story I felt that it was all for show.  When you are really surviving in the world you do not stick your neck out normally - you do what you have to do to survive and help your family survive.  The story just was not detailed enough in regards to specific living strategies and the other personalities that are really living the life.  I just felt the author did not and could not connect with anyone to really understand.Just my opinion.Kate
1	1115078400	Nickel and Dimed, by Barbara Ehrenreich is billed as being, "[i]instantly acclaimed for its insight, humor, and passion," and "changing the way America perceives its working poor."  The book is constructed of a series of vignettes that chronicle Ehrenriech as she becomes an employee in a succession of, what she describes as, "America's least attractive jobs." (6).  The book follows Ehrenreich entering the work force as: a waiter in Florida; a dietary aid (server/dishwasher) at a nursing home, and a maid in Maine; and an associate for Wal-Mart.  Throughout, Ehrenreich not only chronicles her work experience, but also her living conditions and relations with those she meets in both situations.  While the vignettes Ehrenreich presents are compelling, the book as a whole is very problematic.  The problems mainly stem from Ehrenreich's inability to be objective in her observations, as well as from her failure to present any substantive alternatives to the free market system she so clearly finds loathsome.  Because of this, the book reads more like a polemic screed written by someone oblivious to the Technological Project (or even the most rudimentary economic theory, for that matter), than an informed, objective work searching to find improvements.Ehrenreich provides us with a bit of her background, "credentials," and modus in the book's forward.  A Ph.D. in biology, Ehrenreich states that in order to understand your surroundings you must, "plunge into the everyday chaos of nature, where surprises lurk in the most mundane measurements." (3).  Unfortunately, Ehrenreich is not viewing her forays into these workplaces as a scientist would an experiment.  Rather, her distinct and clear point of view (hinted at even in the above quote through her use of negatively loaded words such as "plunge" and "lurk") informs all of her thoughts.  Even more unfortunately, Ehrenreich does not come to this point of view peripatetically through the experiences that she chronicles in the book, but, instead, begins her experiment with her point of view firmly in place.  Because of this any chance of a biased, nuanced account is impossible.  Therefore, rather than providing us with what could be an informative and productive document, instead we are presented with something that resembles vaguely anthropological in nature.  As such she not only violates basic journalistic principles, but-worse-violates the very scientific principles that one would think a Ph.D. in biology would attempt to adhere to.  Thus, while attempting to comment on economics and policy-from an admittedly untrained background-she allows her own predispositions to inform her research rather than viewing her experiment as a Ph.D. in biology should: scientifically and objectively.Beyond her academic training, Ehrenreich also squarely positions her ideological predisposition before actually entering the "experiment."  In the introduction, she relates that her husband "escap[ed]" from his low-paying job "to become an organizer for the Teamsters." (2).  While the overarching irony of this statement only becomes apparent after reading the entire book-a book peopled with workers who Ehrenreich portrays as being completely and irrevocably trapped by the "system" with no means of escape.  One would assume that this is the same system that her husband did in fact escape from.  However, it is troubling even without knowing where Ehrenreich will head.  Escaping to become an organizer for the Teamsters, of course, implies just the sort of bounded, non-autonomous existence that Ehrenreich mistakenly views as freedom.Beyond personal background, in the introduction she also creates a set of rules that largely govern her employment requirements.  She states, "I could not, in my search for jobs, fall back on any skill derived from my education or usual work;" "I had to take the highest-paying job that was offered me and do my best to hold it;" "I had to take the cheapest accommodations I could find..." and so forth.  This would all be fine enough, except interspersed between these rules is a rather curious declaration: "no Marxist rants." (4).  While it would be easy to simply miss this incongruous "rule," amidst the more grounded, experimental ones that surround it, its presence is deeply troubling.  The fact that she is not only predisposed to Marxist ideals, but to Marxist rants, makes virtually everything that comes after this statement difficult to take as objective-and this occurs on page four.What does come after this introduction is basically what you would expect.  The author, semi-gamely, tries to immerse herself in low-paying jobs while living in cheap housing.  Along the way she consistently reminds us that she is not going into the experiment with a scientifically agnostic point of view.  At the beginning of the first vignette, "Serving in Florida," she begins with the words, "Mostly out of laziness."  The sentence that follows reads, "...I soon realize...that it's not easy to go from being a consumer, thoughtlessly throwing money around...." (11).  So, we find our author is both lazy and profligate.  She is also generalizing horribly, by accusing anyone who is not working in these low-paying jobs of being a "thoughtless" consumer.  While the author could perhaps be defended from the above observations (though it's difficult to see how), a few pages on in the same chapter, while bemoaning the mandatory drug tests imposed on workers applying for jobs, she states venomously, "...if you want to stack Cheerios boxes or vacuum hotel rooms in chemically fascist America [my italics], you have to be willing to squat down and pee in front of a health worker...." Chemically fascist America?  While America certainly must continue to adhere to a rule of law or risk jeopardizing many of its important qualities, making the leap from policing illegal drugs to fascism seems extreme.The chapters continue apace.  Interspersed between references to Mao and describing herself as a hippie, we meet a range of characters who are attempting to survive.  Some, like the dishwasher who is accused of stealing, are struggling more than others, and indeed all of the people portrayed are struggling.  The nuance of struggle seems to be the most egregious thing that the author misses.  While it would be wrong to assume that the conditions or wages are not problematic, it is even more wrong to assume that they are untenable, and it is, frankly, condescending.  For instance, the author describes a co-worker's situation at Wal-Mart, who-unfathomably to Ehrenreich-seems to have found a way to find some sort of pride in her situation, and even takes time to praise Ehrenreich's work.  Rather than taking this for what it is, Ehrenreich instead indirectly deems this woman, whom Ehrenreich calls Isabelle, as suffering from "inertia." (180).  Only it's not Isabelle who Ehrenreich actually describes as being inert-it's Ehrenreich herself.  Isabelle is only guilty by proximity.  Isabelle has found a way to advance, has found a way to take pride in her work, has found a way to make ends meet, and has found a way to continue.  Ehrenreich, cannot comprehend this, and feels that should she herself "stoop" to this level it would only be because of inertia-how else to explain it?This is not to say that the conditions Ehrenreich describes are satisfactory or that they should not be examined-in a scholarly, unbiased manner-in order to find solutions.  Certainly Ehrenreich is a compelling writer, and did indeed leave behind a far more affluent life, for a time, while she took these low-paying jobs.  It is also not to say that what the author describes is not extremely troubling.  What is more troubling, however, is the Ehrenreich offers no solutions, nor even suggestions.  In the "Evaluation" chapter which closes the book, she presents economic theory (via interviews) as contrasting with her experiential findings.  The fact that wages have increased and that poverty levels have decreased are interpreted by Ehrenreich to be as result of faulty data or outmoded systems of discovery.  Still, this does not mollify her, and rather than seeing this as at least some hint that the system is not completely flawed, she suggests-as means of solution-that in order to change the system, it will take us as a country to feel "shame." (221).  The problem, of course, is that most of us are too busy working within the system-some succeeding, some failing, some just making it-to take the time out to feel the shame.  They don't have time to think about shame because many of them believe that the system does provide a way to advance.In fact, Ehrenreich herself does, grudgingly, concede that in at least one of her jobs-had she stayed long enough-she could have begun earning enough to actually save money, and thus improve her situation.  So, while Ehrenreich clearly sees that there is room to advance in the system, she still deems the system a failure.  How to explain this?  Perhaps there is some explanation in the description of the author's father near the beginning of the book:My father...managed to pull himself, and us with him, up from the mile-deep copper mines of Butte to the leafy suburbs of the Northeast, ascending from boiler makers to martinis before booze beat out ambition. (18).It's as if Ehrenreich believes that there is a distinct connection between her father's ability to pull himself out of the type of situations that she chronicles as being so hopelessly insurmountable in Nickel and Dimed and an even worse situation: alcoholism.  Certainly I am no more qualified to perform psychotherapy on Ehrenreich as she is to offer economic advice, but the fact that she relates this information about her father at the beginning of a book, and then provides no possible better alternative or solution (beyond shame), makes one wonder whether or not Ehrenreich is uncomfortable with the possibility that this system-flawed, certainly, but better than any other-is in fact the correct one.  Perhaps, she feels that by not accepting the Technological Project; by insisting that there must be some alternative to a system that promotes autonomy and that has a rule of law (even a rule of law so "fascistic" that it mandates drug testing), that there would be less suffering.  Unfortunately, the facts are against her.  As productivity rises, standards of living rise, and suffering decreases.  The process can be a painful one, and can leave good people stranded, however the alternative (an alternative that Ehrenreich hints at without ever stating) of some form of non-autonomous system (fascism, for instance) leads to far, far more suffering.
5	1115078400	There, but for the grace of God, go I. Or do we? These tales of workplace poverty, humiliation and misfortune aren't happening in a land far, far away. And they are less and less likely to be happening to nameless, faceless strangers as our national standard of living declines. Middle class degreed Americans get layed off from organizations as jobs are outsourced or eliminated by technology. The rate of return on professional job applications diminishes with age. Those who venture into the promised land of self employment often find it difficult to make a living. The author writes from the perspective of one who has experienced privilege adding realism to this virtual experience for others currently in privileged socio-economic situations. Read this book with a sense of outrage or a sense of voyeurism, but be at least a little concerned. Even if you aren't faced with a work deficit, your taxes are guaranteed to rise to support those who do.
5	1114646400	As a middle class American, I found this book extremely enlightening.  I was able to see through Ehrenriech's eyes what it means to work to survive. I hope other readers who don't live that lifestyle feel the same,  and find a new appreciation for the difficulties so many Americans face.  Afterall, awareness is the foundation for change.Throughout her experiment, Ehrenreich discovers the unexpected hardships of fitting in to her jobs, even as a very skilled person in real life, and living even for a few months on the low wages she makes in her various jobs.  Ehrenreich reviews her job experiences as best she can as an outsider to the minimum wage lifestyle. She effectively unearths the authority exploitation in minimum wage jobs in America. I think Ehrenriech writes with honesty and candidness about her unique experiment.The book exposes the stark contrast between the "American dream" and the American reality.  Ehrenriech can barely get by and pay rent even when working 2 jobs.  It seems that American ideas live up in practice.  To make the case more shocking, Ehrenreich, a skilled professional, was unsuccessful at securing certain jobs and got criticisms left and right for performing rudimentary tasks incorrectly.  However, Ehrenriech gives integrity to every job she performs by admitting her short-comings and the difficulties in succeeding even in the most basic task.  It is very apparent from her experiences that corporate America is "out to get" the low income American.  I think Ehrenriech had a unique outsider's ability to have this perspective, as someone who lives that life every day and has no choice might not realize or even care about the constant exploitation.  The only offense to the book might come from the low-income Americans who the author was pretending to be, and who might feel Ehrenriech has no right to think she has really lived their lives.  As for other readers, like myself, her book is an honest and necessary testament to the daily struggles of the backbone of our country: blue collar America.
3	1114646400	Ehrenreich, I suppose, shows that the working poor are 'good' people. (meanwhile, she unfairly demonizes all owners, even the-what she calls- "two bit" Maids manager).A handful things I would like to have seen:First, Ehrenreich says that her dad got out of the Mines.  How did he do it?  How can we pass on lessons-learned to other working poor?Second, she could/should have discussed how poverty in the US compares to poverty in other countries.  In many countries, the poor live in the dirt, not efficiency apartments w. TVs.  Critics say, 'well the US is so rich, we should do better than other countries @ providing for everyone'.  It is quite plausible to turn that around and say "the US is wonderful & rich because we put the onus on the individual."Third, I wished the book had touched on the US education system. My wife teaches at an inner-city high school.  Its a mess.  The classes, even if they were taught well, dont prepare students for the working world.  In fact, much of the US education system grooms them to be passive employees, rather than innovators (or even workers who stand up for their rights).  Ehrenreich doesnt mention our Public school system.Fourth, I am pretty moderate, so I dont want to come across as a right-wing anti-intellectual, but-- I still contend that many of our brightest upper-middle class are hostile that Capitalism pays people for what they produce or do (not what they know).  I think it is difficult for our most educated Americans to accept that wealth often has nothing to do w/ educational pedigree.  Ehrenreich seems bitter than Sam Walton created something.Lastly, it is interesting that readers seem angry that Ehrenreich dismisses Religion.  I think a much better book would be to discuss whether or not Churches would pick up the slack if Government was smaller.  Ehrenreich has no qualms saying things are 'government issues'.  Christians and other people of faith say that Churches are solid support networks.  Would churches do enough if Government was small? I dont know the answer.  Ehrenreich seems to think they would not.
3	1114560000	I really support the message of Ehrenreich's book.  To give a brief description, Ehrenreich takes a few low-wage jobs in each part of the country to see if people on those jobs can  make ends meet.  I think it is an important message for society to hear that poor people arent poor because they are lazy; a lot that she worked with actually had two or three jobs.  They are poor because there something with our society.However, I was not impressed with Ehrenreich's telling of the story.  She has this tone of being very righteous for going out there and doing this, but she comes off sounding like she thinks she is better than both the upper class who oppress the workers and the very people that she worked with during her experiment.  She may have recieved the wages of a low wage worker, but she does'nt live the lifestyle.There was also one passage that I particularly disliked.  She attends a revival and as she writes about it she mocks the people there and what they believe in.  Her beliefs are her business and she certainly has the right to write about them, but writing about her dislike of Christianity should not take place in a book about low wages.  It really distracts from her main point in the point and is irrevelant to the topic.While I wasn't impressed with her writing, this is a message that needs to be heard and discussed in our society.  Only by hearing about the true hardships of being stuck in a low-wage job can we come to a point where we are ready to discuss policy changes that could help alleviate the problems of these people.
5	1114473600	Ever since the completion of Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed" I've completely changed my views on life in America.  Coming from a sheltered, middle-upper class, suburban area, I had never been exposed to the lifestyle millions of Americans are facing daily.Although Ehrenreich only exposes her lower class experience in a few American cities, the reader encounters a perfect mix of everyday situations.  It also becomes evident throughout the novel that it is nearly impossible to survive on minimum wage in modern settings.  Despite her endless amounts of hard labor and multiple jobs, it was never comfortable, healthy, or easy for her to survive.  She also forces the reader to take under consideration that not only was it hard for her to survive like this, but impossible for her many co-workers who also had to support their children, spouses, etc.Considering that I am not exposed to the average struggles of Americans, I found the book to be extremely eye-opening and interesting.  It has changed the way I look and react to everyday things such as tipping at a restaurant or folding my rejected clothes in a store's dressing room.  I also feel as though the book would appealing to Americans of all socio-economic status in order to learn from mistakes and avoid the situations Ehrenreich and millions of Americans have fallen into.
2	1113696000	I feel duped. If you are interested in a book that gives you a better understanding of the strife and needs of the working poor, with direction for serving those needs, go elsewhere. The plot of this book: a self proclaimed middle-aged atheist, comes out of refuge in Key West, Florida to expose herself to self-imposed poverty, that she might report on the genuine hopelessness felt by the real life players. Interesting story line, but Ehrenreich accomplishes little more than to prove that $6 x 40 hours x 52 weeks provides for disturbingly poor living conditions. But then again, what did I expect? Ehrenreich does not work for the poor, with the poor, or by the poor. Why she felt qualified to write this book, or why I felt interested enough to buy it, equally escape me. Those who are sincere about helping the poor are rarely the ones writing about it, they are the ones doing it. This book reads with all the authority of a three times divorced marriage counselor. At least Ehrenreich is sincere about one thing, in so far as she seems determined to repeat the point. She finds Christians to be offensive; but how could they not be, when they serve a God she doesn't believe exists. So what do I think? I wish Amazon would give my nickel and dime back, or at least send them to the poor, not Key West.
3	1113609600	In the book, "Nickel and Dimed:  On (Not) Getting By in America",author Barbara Ehrenreich does a respectable job of conveying what it is like to be a "wage slave" in post welfare reform America.  By taking low-wage jobs from Florida to Minnesota, Ehrenreich is able to show her readers that the dynamics of living the life of the working poor is not a regional problem, but a national shame.  As the book reveals, if more than half of your income is devoted to trying to work your way "up" to substandard housing, something is terribly wrong with the way our system deals with the disenfranchised of this country.In this book, Ehrenreich details how thw working poor have their own inner society where there are rules, customs, languages, standards, and practices that have to be followed.  These rules and customs are in place it seems, simply to reinforce the working poor's real or imagined subordinate position in the American social hierarchy.  By reading this book, I hope that one can come to realize that there is a real person behind that counter, that there is a real person with feelings who is wearing that Wal-Mart vest.  I hope that through this realization, I can somewhat empathize with those who are stuck in low-paying, mind-numbing jobs, where a poor attitude is either a low level form of rebellion, or simply a symptom of defeat.I found this book to be somewhat insightful as to how a person can work hard on multiple jobs, and for all intents and purposes, come away with nothing to show for it.  I would recommend this book to be read not as an academic text, but as a precursor to the works of others.  I believe that is is through thoroughly researched and detailed analysis done by trained sociologists, that the shadow world of low wages, poverty, and defeat can truly be revealed.
5	1113609600	For any book as political as this one, one must take the reviews with a grain of salt (as often as not they're useless).  Reading this book after looking at them, I was struck firstly by how shrill the author *isn't*.  She readily admits that she could achieve only a paltry imitation of "working poor" status, is otherwise pretty reflective about the experience, and generally does not seem to share the disrespect for the sort of people she worked with that seems to underlie much of the public discourse about the poor.As an example, before reading the book I had seen a review that mentioned the author's refusal to move in with someone who offered lodgings, saying that the author called it a "touched by and angel moment" as if that had been some sort of snipe, but when I came to that passage in the book, the comment on that "touched by an angel feeling" didn't seem to be in that spirit at all.  At several points in the book, including this one, the author seems in fact awed by the willingness of the people around her to give generously, of themselves and the limited resources that they have.  This I believe should call into question the political assumption that these are people who, if the government guaranteed them a minimally decent living, would just lapse into selfishness and laziness; isn't it just as likely that they would use their improved means to give more effectively?  It seems counter-intuitive to suppose that these sorts of punishing jobs and too-small paychecks make them more generous.  The author was in fact frightened to notice one of her low-income jobs making her more mean-spirited and petty; this cannot be taken for an offhand generalization, but at least points to a possibility.Another of the negative reviews only points up a problem that arises in this book---when the government, the agent of the public, abdicates the role of making sure everyone is provided with basic necessities, who is left to take their place, and what are the ramifications of that for equality and civil rights?  I find it entirely a believable situation for someone to be attempting the author's experiment for real, estranged from family, etc.  Some families are abusive or simply soul-withering.  The same can be said of churches, the charitable institution most praised by said reviewer and prominent politicians.  Here a wider choice is available, but is it only a quaint liberal notion that church affiliation should be a moral choice, not an economic necessity?  If we leave it to churches to provide for the poor, then is freedom of religion not seriously eroded for people of limited means?The author generally does not propose specific solutions to these problems.  In one of her jobs (at Wal-Mart) she began talking up the notion of union to her co-workers, but on pg. 185 reflects that unions are neither panacea nor flawless.  In general, this is a "long on the problem, short on solutions" kind of book, but that was in the nature of what it set out to do.  The author's mission here, I think, was to point out in a forceful and intensely human way that *there is a problem*, and at that I think this book is very successful.For the sake of full disclosure, I should admit that I myself did move away from my family for personal reasons and worked briefly in low-wage retail and temp jobs before escaping by marriage into the middle class.  I didn't have experiences as squalid or (artificially) desperate as those the author describes, but if someone has never attempted to support themselves in such a way, I think it would be difficult to concieve of the kind of desperation that sets in, the culture of fear that takes hold---fear of job loss, fear of disapproval or any sort of conflict, because these things come to be tied so directly to material needs.While the author's experiment was quite artificial, I think her book offers a bracingly clear look into that world.  It is a book that anyone unfamiliar with such conditions would do well to read with an open mind and to think about carefully.
4	1113091200	Ehrenreich makes the reader take in a whole new view of low income living in America. Working at three low income jobs for a month at a time, she is able to actually live the lives of low income people first hand. The book enables the reader to open their own eyes and realize that there are people living stressful jobs sometimes more then one with low wages and little or no healthcare. These workers are treated like crap day in and day out by their bosses and everyday people. Living the low income way of life is a vicious cycle. All there is time to do is work and sleep. Almost all the wages one person makes a month are directly put towards housing and food. They are actually working for a living, working with only a few hours between jobs almost seven days a week. There is no time to find better paying jobs or be educated for these jobs. Ehrenreich's insights are a rude awakening to everyone else out there not living from pay check to pay check and job to job. Recommend for easy and insightful read.
5	1113004800	Read Nickel and Dimed.  Great book and it reminds me of the summer after I got my Master's.  Yes, almost half of take home went to rent.  Medical coverage: none whatsoever, glad I got cancer six months later back home with Mom.  Eventually paid off what wasn't forgiven.  Petty rules in the succession of temp jobs I had living with Mom, yes.  I wonder how many low wage workers have an advanced education.  Of those, I wonder how many have disabilities.  Barbara's book didn't offer much if any detail about that.  The State of Maryland later found I had a disability and resolved to end my failed social research career permanently, with computer programming training.  Found a Web design slot two months later and I am still there five and a half years now.
5	1112832000	....... now after all that, what will the constructive outcome of this book be?Will this book fall into the amusing-but-nothing-else category,or will it serve as a wake-up call to those not in the poverty range to work to see that some minimum standard of living is defined and cultivated in America by policymakers and such in a timely manner(not 200 years from now!)?The bible is loaded with references to fair wages and the distribution of wealth as a whole.In addition, interest on loans is bad in the bible because it is profiting off of those who need the help!The situations Ms.Ehrenreich describes i have been in. I was homeless while working for a major retailer,suffered long term unemployment and was shut out of assistance programs because i fell between the cracks. As a homeless,out of work person who applied for "free care" at the hospital and was told i was 'all set', i got a bill in the hundreds of dollars."Free care" has a deductible attached to it!!David Shipler in his book discusses how the federal poverty level has not been revised since a subjective 1955 food basket was priced by a Social Security Administration employee in which food costs were 1/3 as opposed to 1/6 of the average American's total budget. Have the guidelines not been updated to reflect the modern reality of poverty in America because too many more people will be identified as qualifying for health care,food stamps,housing and income subsidies?Is the refusal to address these guidelines an attempt to put leadership heads in the sand?And why is the cost of what you NEED soaring and what you DESIRE going down? Will the new proposed bankruptcy law throw millions of people into economic chaos and cause a surge of liens,foreclosures,garnishments and more further persecuting the most vulnerable participants in this economy?
1	1112659200	This book was a huge disappointment. When I first got this book I was so excited. As a student of poverty policy, I looked forward to some light reading on the subject. Instead I was subjected to some upper middle class/affluent woman deciding to immerse herself in the working class culture. Though some of her insights and statistics were interesting, she did little more than widen the rift between the haves and have-nots. What I hated most about this book was its tone. The author writes as though she has discovered some new policy territory. She turns up her nose at the living accommodations and survival tactics of the working poor. I am wondering: aside from writing her oh my gosh I can't believe people live this way book, has she actively become involved in contributing to policy efforts to address the poor and the working poor? Anyone truly interested in learning about the working poor/poor/poverty issues would do better to read Cynthia Duncan's Worlds Apart or Amartya Sen's Development As Freedom.
4	1112572800	I was very excited to read this book, and, in fact, read it in one day.  I was disappointed that it didn't have the "scientific" feel that I thought it would.  There were lots of footnotes to denote that it was, indeed, a scientific research experiment, of sorts.  But I was looking for more quantifiable data.  Instead of focusing on perfectly documenting sequential order of events, and quantifying her experience with statistics throughout the book, Ehrenreich instead shows us the "mood" and ways of thinking that permeate the lower class.  I immediately gave it to a friend to read when I finished, and I have found over the last few days since I read it that it has changed the way I once thought about lower-income workers.  It opens your eyes to a way of life that becomes a vicious cycle unable to be broken, and we, as a society, tend to blame the "victim" rather than find plausible means of actually turning their lives around. Even if it isn't initially what you thought it would be (or could be), it is still very much worth the read.  It should evoke the activist within all of us.
4	1112400000	Nickel and Dime: On not getting by in America is a book written by Barbara Ehrenreich. The book is based on a real life research, which was conducted by the author Barbara Ehrenreich. In the book she decides to live a real lower class life style and see if she can survive paying her bills and caring for herself with her minimum wage income.I thought this was a well-written book. I liked the fact that she decided to touch and explore on a topic that has created myths among the American society. What I mean by this is that most Americans believe that being in a lower class means one is lazy, uneducated and therefore don't know how to handle their finances, that one must be from a certain race to be to be from a lower class. These are all myths and I'm glad she decided to do her own research on a topic like that and write a book on it to educate the most Americans who believe in these myths.Ehrenreich indicates in the beginning of the chapter I believe that, she enters the low-end of her research with a number of advantages. That one she's white, thin, and healthy and her children are grown and above all, she is well educated. Even playing by her own rules as indicated in the book, she allowed herself a car and a laptop and $1000. She did the research by trying many of the low income jobs out there in America (waitressing, working at Wal-Mart which don't give benefits etc) and she also moved from different states and cities (Florida, Maine and Minnesota) to see if people were not able to get by with the low income money because of what state or city they were from. In addition, what she witnessed was that it was not easy mother fact not possible to survive with a low-income job. She indicates how hard it would be for one to survive with a job from Wal-Mart, which doesn't give its employees benefits, which is always the case with most of these low-income jobs.I'm glad she decided to write a book on a topic like that. I think it can help educate some of our fellow Americans that being in the lower class is not always a case of being lazy or unlucky. I think this book is all right and on a scale of one through ten, I will give it a nine.
4	1112400000	About a year and a half ago I initially read this book and based my review on a rather perfunctory reading. I have since had occasion to reread the book.I was struck by the negative and holier than thou tone of some of the one and two star reviews. Of course the author's experiment was flawed in some ways but she accurately illustrated the plight of low wage workers. From the perspective of a high horse perch, a person could take issue with the bad choices some poor people make: taking a low wage job in a high cost resort town, any substance abuse or staying in a dysfunctional relationship.Contrary to the apparent beliefs of today's neo-cons, wealth or an aggressive attempt to attain it is not a mark of moral courage or of being a good person. Furthermore a person caught in the trap of abysmal demeaning work for parsimonious wages just to survive isn't a bad person getting what they deserve.The negative responses to Ehrenriech's book say more about the state of America today than anything.
4	1112227200	Although some of the material could have been presented better, I highly recommend Barbara Ehrenreich's book.  Sad, shocking, and at times completely unbelievable, the book clearly displays the truth about the low-wage working class in America that most would rather ignore.
4	1111881600	I read Dr. Ehrenreich's book for a sociology class.  It was touted by the professor as being a great book, very informative and insightful, and it was, but not in the way she meant.  I'll explain by giving some history.I come from a lower class background.  My mother was a single parent who worked her way off welfare, and I have held many low wage jobs in my life out of neccessity, not as part of an experiment.  I even worked at WalMart for two years.  As a result, I was very familiar with the lives of the people Dr. Ehrenreich studied.  What I found interesting was her interpretation.It was both fascinating and frustrating seeing someone from a decidedly upper middle class background trying to interpret the lives and decisions of the working poor.  Her class biases showed through in every line.  Despite months of living in reduced circumstances, she remained oblivious the things that seem obvious to the truely disadvantated.Dr. Ehrenreich starts out asking if the poor having coping strategies the better off don't know about, and concludes they don't, despite all evidence to the contrary.  Her unwillingness to rely on friends, family, and church were completely unrealistic because those are the resources the disadvantaged use to get by. She also repeatedly wonders why the working poor don't leave to get better jobs.  I can sum that up in one line--because they can't.Just becasue there are jobs out there--and whether there truly are is a matter for debate--doesn't mean anyone can get them.  As she rightly points out, even "unskilled" jobs require some skills, and not everyone has them.  There are also requirements for cleanliness, wardrobe, and transportation that the truly poor may not be able to meet, as well as the need to go for a few weeks with no income while waiting for the first paycheck to come in.  Where I live, someone receiving assistance is required to notify DSHS within five days of finding a job, immediately losing their benefits, but it may be weeks before you receive your first paycheck.As a result, I have to say that while Dr. Ehrenreich's book may be well suited to the middle classes as an insight into the lives of the working poor, for those from poor backgrounds it is better as a read for a look into the prejudices of the liberal upper middle class.
2	1111622400	Even though I liked the concept of the book, I feel that there were many additional types of entry level jobs that she didn't consider.I worked in a warehouse distribution center for 6 years.  People hired off of the street with no experience or even a mastery of the English language were paid $12.50 an hour to start.  (And that was 3 years ago!)She also never attempted to use a temp agency - something that totally perplexed me.
4	1111104000	This was a fun book to read, and probably a fun expirament to try.  Flawed in some respects, but overall a worthwhile read.The premise:  Starting with $1000 and not much else, Barbara Ehrenreich moves to random places and starts afresh.  As waiter, maid and Walmart employee, she sees what life is like at the bottom of the US economic labor market.The flaws: 1. There are of course a million ways she could have done this experiment, but I think a major mistake was to rule out living with roommates.  I've never not had a roommate, and cutting rent and other expenses in half is surely key to "getting by in America".  Her insistance on living by herself was an idea stuck in her mind from her upper class upbringing.2. The experiment was not very long (a few months in each place).  Of course it is hard to get by when you are just starting a job, but you have to work more than a few months to move up the pay scale and get into a system.  Granted, you can't make your whole life this experiment (life is too short) but I think she drew some erroneous conclusions based on her short stays.3. She didn't really spend a lot of time looking for the best job.  There was a point where she was close to getting a job at Lowe's and Walmart, but inexplicably chose Walmart, whose pay was $3 less an hour.  That seemed odd.The good:  It was a good look at what the bottom of the labor market looks like.  I appreciated many of the insights and observations.  It's a quick read and worth it.
4	1110499200	Barbara Ehrenreich's book Nickel and Dimed was an enjoyable read. The book focuses on the burden of those working entry level, minimum wage jobs, and whether it is truly possible to get by on $7-8 and hour. Though a bit condescending at times, Ehrenreich presents a very good case as she submits herself to a somewhat tainted poverty level existence that, while not really a good indicator of reality, does manage to bring to light the problems her coworkers and most anyone else whose worked a minimum wage job face as part of their everyday lives.The only part of Nickel and Dimed that I found to be lackluster was the somewhat indecisive conclusion. Instead of wrapping up all the ideas that Ehrenreich presented throughout the book and using those to reach new conclusions, she presents the same argument that she's made over and over throughout the body of the text and then simply and abruptly stops. I found that to be repetitive and a rather odd way to end an otherwise thoughtful and interesting look at our society. That being said I recommend the book to anyone willing to take an honest look at the direction our society is going and share in Barbara's call for something different.
4	1110499200	The book Nickel and Dimed, written by Barbara Ehrenreich, describes her experiences as she tests the waters of a low-wage, impoverished life.  She abandons her up-scale lifestyle to see for herself how low-wage workers get by in society, learning early on how hard it really is.  Ehrenreich discovers through her journey how crumby low-wage workers are treated by their employers, and looked down upon by society.I found it very outraging to read about how poor the conditions are for low-wage workers, and how they can work and work and never improve their current conditions.  Overall, I thought that Ehrenreich conveyed the working-poor's trials and tribulations very well in her book, and that it is much-needed information for America.
4	1110412800	In the book Nickel and Dimed, Barbara Ehrenreich ventures in the world of low-waged people on a journey to see if people can or cannot make it in low paying jobs.  She goes to several places and tries it in different areas which further enhance her ideas.Nickel and Dimed was an interesting read that was supported with Barbara Ehrenreich's research on the topic.  The book is informative and nun-to-dull to read.  It features interesting stories and keeps you from being overly bored with continuing interests involved.  The idea behind the book would be of great interest to any interested in the topic, but even for those who are not overly interested in the topic it is exciting enough and informative enough to read on your leisure time.  But if you just didn't care about the topic it would not be a recommended read.  From beginning to end the book has the information and an easy to read stance that would not put many people off, and even for those it did they could possibly still be compelled to read it beginning to end.Overall if there is any care in the low-class, middle-class, and specially the high-class structure this book should be read.  Even if there is no real interest it would be suggested to give the book a bit of a read in order to learn more on the idea.  Or even just to read something for pleasure the book Nickel and Dimed would be a good idea because it's a decent enough pleasure to read and could possibly provide some thought provoking ideas.
4	1110412800	In the book Nickel and Dimed, Barabra Ehrenreich did an excellent job getting me to appreciate the struggles of the low wage worker in America; especially all the hardships that women have to deal with.  It's hard enough to pay the rent and buy groceries working a job that is over minimum wage.  She was able to successfully show from the inside of the situation that it was beyond difficult to maintain a healthy style of living for workers in different jobs and in different parts of the country.  My only problem with Ehrenrich's experience was that she allowed herself some luxuries that a truly impoverished person would not have had the liberty to use.  Food and shelter are basically the only things that people truly need to live in this world.  Our country has serious issues if a person with a full time job cannot make the amount of money needed to afford these things.  Ehrenrich's decision to take a first hand look at the lifestyles of low wage workers turned out some very interesting stories of struggling to meet basic needs.  I would suggest this book to anyone who would like to know more about the social inequalities in America.
4	1110240000	Ehrenreich set out on a mission in this book and in my opinion she completed it. She desired to know what it was like to make it on minimum wage in the "real" world. Through hands on research she documented her 1 year episode of working job to job and being paid minimum wage in the state where she was at the time. Throughout the book Ehrenreich provides detailed observations of the working class and the corporate system displayed in certain organizations. This book is written for those in higher power to enlighten them as to the problems that the working class faces every day and to hopefully bring about change. I give this book 4 stars for its clarity in writing and its powerful message to spur on some sort of change.
5	1109808000	I read Dr. Enrenreich's book Nickel and Dimed with a disturbing sense of nostalgia.  As someone in good health and without dependents such as children or an ill relative, I am very cognizant now of how relatively well-off I am by being able to work consistently.  A social support network, as Ehrenreich shows, is essential to survival.This is not just a book for those in sociology, public health, gender studies, and other social disciplines, although it would serve as an excellent reference for the newly anointed or long-term professional within these fields.  It is also a book for those that make convenient assumptions and have strong opinions about the poor.  It illustrates in a very straight-forward (and hilarious) way that the rhetoric of laziness and personal responsibility associated with an incredibly difficult way of day-to-day life needs further understanding.  The randomness of life's daily problems quickly counter the 'why didn't he or she (and more insidiously they) just X.'  It just isn't that simple.Peter Gamache, MBA, MLA, MPH
4	1109721600	Barbara Ehrenreich takes on the impossible task of becoming a low wage worker when, as she discusses in her introduction, she is far removed from this social strata financially, educationally, and socially.  Her objective is to understand how a low wage worker lives on minimum wage.  She works as a waitress, in a Alzheimer's facility, as a maid, and at Wal-Mart in three different cities.It's difficult to extrapolate Ehrenreich's experience because her experimentation is contrived on many levels (she always has the funds to set herself up in an apartment, she's never truly desperate and has the power to literally walk out of one job and to argue with a manager at another) However, to the degree that she is able to immerse herself in the lower working class, she sheds insight into life at minimum wage.I found two things interesting about Ehrenreich's "research." First is how callous the lower managers seem to be and impervious to the suffering of their employees.  The second is that the people with whom Ehrenreich works don't seem to feel sorry for themselves or resentful of their place in the social heirarchy.  As one of her co-workers says, "I don't mind, really, [having so little in comparison to others] becuase I guess I'm a simple person, and I don't want what they have.  I mean, it's nothing to me.  But what I would like is to be able to take a day off now and then...if I had to...and still be able to buy groceries the next day."If nothing else, Ehrenreich's experiences (mostly unpleasant)will make the reader more aware of the minimum wage workers in the community and the poverty levels in which they survive.
4	1109635200	Clearly, this book has stirred up some controversy but I don't understand necessarily why.  The author goes "undercover" in Maine, Key West and Minnesota to work lowly jobs as a housekeeper, diner-style server and Wal-Mart employee to determine whether it was possible for someone going from welfare-to-work could earn enough for rent, food and transportation.  Maybe the controversy flows from the author's resounding conclusion that welfare-to-work is flawed.  Like it or not, the book raises a lot of interesting issues.  At the outset, I will admit that the author's experiment is flawed - but the author admits that herself in the introduction.  Flawed as it is, however, her "experiment" is remarkable and thought-provoking.  As much as many people don't want to admit in their relatively cushy, internet-perusing, Borders-frequenting middle class existences, it is next to impossible to subsist on a $7 an hour job.  While the author's political views are clearly made known, you do not have to agree with her politics to likewise conclude that there's "something wrong" with this country if it expects you to work a lowly $7/hr job and afford high rents, health care, food and transportation.  Just do the math.  That aside, I thought the most poignant aspects of the book involved her observations of the ailing health of many of her co-workers- even if they had health insurance (which was rare because most jobs either did not provide it or contributions to an employer-provided plan were too expensive), they could not afford the time off from work that taking care of their health would require - i.e., if you don't work an hour, you're not paid an hour.  She also observed that, despite the obesity "epidemic" in America, many around her were literally starving.  It was also sad when the author, working the women's department at Wal-Mart, observed one fellow Wal-Mart "associate" inquiring weekly whether a stained polo shirt on clearance had been further marked down from $7.  The author concluded that the employee was required by Wal-Mart to wear and provide her own polo, but at $7, one full hour's salary, it was sadly too expensive for the employee to purchase.  By placing herself in the working poor's unsanitary living quarters (at eye-popping prices) and walking a mile in their shoes, so to speak, by performing the often back-breaking work they do for peanuts and no respect, the author achieves her objective of shedding light on the plight of the increasing numbers of working poor in this country.
1	1109289600	I belong to a book club and we found this book quite unnerving.  Nine women belong to the book club--some of whom are republicans, democrats, career women, homemakers, moms, etc. We were all in complete agreement in our hate for this book.  One person even rated the book a "0" on the scale of 1 to 5.  This book certainly got us fired up!  We found the author very self-serving and at the same time very condescending.  In our opinion, the author was snooty, judgmental, and definitely not politically correct!  We thought the topic was of interest and would merit research but not in the way "Barb" conducted it!We just thought someone should "dime out" this author!
3	1108771200	Barbara Ehrenreich forsakes her relatively cozy life as a writer, lecturer, and generally well-educated person to take up low-wage jobs in three regions of the country.  She lays down some ground rules for herself:  she cannot rely on her higher education; she will not allow herself to become homeless; and she will take the highest-paying job.It's an intriguing project, and the stories that come out of the project are equally intriguing.  I could feel her desperation as she sought affordable housing, decent food, and a way of life that wouldn't break her, physically or mentally.  Her stories about her co-workers were equally poignant.This book definitely made me think more (than I already do, which is considerably) about the folks upon whose backs the middle and upper classes have made their fortunes:  the low-wage workers who allow us to have cheap clothing, cheap meals, and cheap lodging.  I was reminded of an exercise in a church group where we role-played and tried to balance transportation to and from job or day-care, rent, food, and health care on an inadequate income source.  We were only role-playing, and I was nearly brought to tears out of frustration.What surprised me a little (but perhaps shouldn't have) is how much pride people take in these jobs that seem designed to break their spirits, and how much hope they still have for the future.  This makes it all the more sad to see how these people are used and exploited and broken by their employers and by oppressive company "rules."While people in low-wage jobs do not have an easy life, and often find themselves living out of vehicles, for example, I think Dr. Ehrenreich made things more difficult on herself than she needed to.  For example, while she describes frustration at dealing with charitable organizations, she never sought out any kind of community, such as a church or support group.  She never tried to find someone seeking a roommate.  She didn't interact with her co-workers off the job.  She'd work her job(s) and go back to her skeevy motel room to write notes.  While I'm sure some people find themselves isolated in a new town, I would think most in the same situation would seek out some sort of human support system.  Also, I think Dr. Ehrenreich broke her own rule in Minneapolis when she turned down the superior pay at Menards to become a Wal-Martian.But problems aside, the author proves a very good point.  We really have to think about what kind of America we're supporting with our dollars and what kind of public policy we support with our votes.
3	1108512000	Ehrenreich wrote "Nickel and Dimed" with the intent being that the middle and upper classes would read it, and therefore know something of what the lower classes were going through.  It was not meant to be a biography of certain lower class people, delving into their private lives as well as their work lives.  It was supposed to tell of only their ability (or lack thereof) to survive with "poverty-level wages".  And while Ehrenreich's seemingly carefree style of writing may put some readers off, it seemed to almost mirror some of the poverty stricken characters' attitudes.  They always seemed to be hopeful, or at least accepting.Also, while Ehrenreich's education is of the highest in rank, it didnt seem to do her a bit of good in her low-wage jobs.Although there are problems with her research (for instance, her quitting when the going got tough, her dermatologist at hand, etc), all in all, Ehrenreich did a good job of getting lower-class problems out and visible to the other classes.
3	1108425600	Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich is an extraordinary non-fictional book. It took great courage for this author to leave her comfortable life and start from scratch as a low wage worker. From a Ph.D. to "nothing" puts things in perspective and opens minds and eyes to a reader who will never experience such things.It makes me sick to think that America is not as free as we "Proud Americans" portray it to be. Things need to change around here situations such as poverty need to stop being invisible. It will never change if people don't do something about it. Barbara experienced things for herself and wrote a book and opened readers eyes all across America. Living off minim wage is not living free when people are struggling to live a healthy, proud, and respectful life. We can't let people with money and power rule everything. United States is the most powerful country in the world right? It is so powerful that people who don't have money struggle everyday of their lives to survive in America. We will never have to be in these situations that more then half Americans do. We have luxuries such as to log-on to amazon.com and write a review on books. I hope people read Nickel and Dimed and realize the core issues Barbra and people in America are faced with.
4	1108339200	Firstly, Barbara Ehrenreich did not write this book keeping a lower-class audience in mind. Therefore, it does not attempt to expand the knowledge of poor people about the harsh reality of poverty, as it would be impossible to do so. Her target audience is the upper-class society that is so oblivious to the problems faced by people enduring a life of poverty.Secondly, the author does not walk away from the jobs to escape them. Rather, she attempts to go through various jobs so as to describe to the reader all the hardships associated with all the different jobs ranging from being a waitress to being a Wal-mart employee.Therefore, instead of criticizing Ehrenreich, I think her attempt to increase public awareness about the hardships endured by the lower-class, is truly commendable.
3	1108252800	Although she does provide a lot of statistical information as is evident in reading the book, Enrenreich does not go too in-depth.  I believe that there were times when she merely skimmed the surface and should have expanded much more.  She introduces you to the people she works with in a limited way, mostly only in the aspect of how they get along.  She mentions their personal stories to an extent but she never befriends them in a way that would greatly increase the validity of the book.  Simply because your manager did not say, "A break room is a right and it can be taken away" does not mean that Ehrenreich was stereotyping her manager.  She was simply trying to convey to people who may have never had to deal with oppressive supervisors that you encounter all types of personalities and unfortunately there is nothing you can do except try to get along with them.  By giving her reader, an idea of what her managers were like does not constitute as going "too far in-depth".  It was one of the times where she provides a way for the reader to relate to how it felt to be considered part of the lower class, as if you have fewer rights then others.
4	1108252800	The name of the book is Nickel and Dimed: On (not) Getting by in America, it is supposed to be about the work experience of the "working poor" and how it effects their living habits. So when people sarcastically said all  she proved was that the working poor have it tough, they are right because that was the point. She wanted to expose just how much they work and deal with compared to us. The book was not meant to be an emotional story of their family life it was a story of their WORK life.
4	1108166400	This was an excellent book, i am not denying that in anyway, I am however denying the way in which the research went about.  The author randomly uprooted her life for an experiment.  She worked in low wage jobs and lived in low income housing but did not prove all that much.  Yes she proved that the "working poor" have it tough. Maybe to her this was something new, since she seemed to be on the upper class side of society.  When reading this book I expected there to be more depth to the characters.  The characters were just discussed as having low wage jobs, and unfair housing situations.  I feel that the book would have been much more interesting and true if she had brought more of their family life into the book, yes they are barely making ends meat, but are they happy?Overall it was an excellent book, I was not very fond of the author's writing style but once I got past that and actually into the book I found it very interesting. I feel that the author should have planned out her research better then she did.  It seemed as if she just picked places randomly out of the top of her head and lived there for a few weeks.  She did not take time to think of what these people's lives are like there, which I feel should also have been a major part of the book. When she got to the cities she was living in she knew nothing about them.  I feel that this made the book less appealing since she did not seem to mix with the characters as well as a researcher doing an experiment like this should have.
4	1107648000	It is often said that "history is written by the winners," and in many ways our society's books are written almost entirely by those on the top half of the ladder - those with the most economic advantage, education and access.  Barbara Ehrenreich, a member of the top rung of the ladder, gives it up temporarily so that she can say what it's really like to survive on a minimum wage.  Granted, her experience is not entirely true to life, but it's going to be as close as many of us get, and it's an important perspective to have in light of congressional discussions about welfare and work programs.  Reading her book will make you think more thoughtfully about the many problems faced by America's working poor.
4	1107561600	Having struggled for many years, this book didn't tell me anything any poor person didn't already know (except, perhaps, that maid services don't wash the pee out of the rags between houses- eeeewe!), however, it's nice that she wrote it and served it up for the people who don't understand the struggle.My biggest issue with the book is that the author seemed quite stuck-up and above it all, thinking that she was better than poor people. She walked away from jobs when she got too peeved- a *real* poor person has to just take all the crap that's dished out because they have to feed their kids.So maybe it's eye opening for some, but I found it offensive for her to say she lived it. She dabbled in it; she did not live it.Overall a positive review for the impact it's had on making people aware of the poverty struggle.
2	1107129600	In her attempts to get by on a regular job, Ehrenreich vowed to follow a set of logical rules, which she did not always keep to (basically, take the highest paying job, which she didn't stick to even though the job wasn't significantly different than the job she took). She also required to have her own apartment with a kitchen, own a car, and spend ~$9/day on food, and wouldn't work more than 40 hours a week at a rate of about $7/hour... she was taking many many luxuries and the numbers clearly weren't going to work out. She could have shared a place with someone, taken public transportation, or gotten another job if she really wanted these things. (As a resident of Minneapolis, I know for a fact that her housing expenses in Minneapolis could have been much less than the minimum housing cost she claimed, but she failed to look carefully and was very picky.)Regardless of her failed attempt to enter a lower-paying job and live on the wage (which I was not convinced was near to impossible), she did give a personal view of many of the people she met. These personal accounts are the reason why this book may be worth reading for people interested in the topic. The book's description and introduction is misleading in that it claims Ehrenreich made a fair attempt, when she did not. The description should be focused on the personal relationships and observations she made. This misleading description and minimal real effort by Ehrenreich to live on $7/hour is why I have rated the book at 2 stars.Now, don't get me wrong, it is hard as heck to live on a $7/hour wage. Also, I am quite liberal and I would guess that my views would fall pretty much in line with Ehrenreich's, but I just don't think the book was fairly written.As an alternative to reading this book, I would suggest taking the 5 hours it would have taken to read this book and volunteer at a food shelter. You will do good AND you will come away with a better understanding of the difficulties of individuals who live at/below the poverty level.
4	1106956800	The bottom line -- this book sheds light on an issue that many people would rather not think about.  Agenda-pushing critics on either side will make their predictable arguments (is it not a smug stretch to suggest the author advocates "socialism" and is among "that rarest of breeds" for addressing the shortcomings of workfare and minimum wage?) .The book is at once entertainingly told from Ehrenreich's already pointed and indignant perspective and somewhat frustrating for it, in that she doesn't engage her co-workers enough (the way Turkel did) for us to fully understand how and why they cope.  Is she undervaluing the importance of family, community, and religion in her subjects' lives?  Or have we simply created a culture of resignation among those we have neglected to properly pay and adequately educate?  In "The Working Poor", David Shipler makes the point that hard work is not enough to move up in the country, the **entire** system has to work flawlessly. To hard work, you must add public transportation, safe public housing, adequate education and child care...these must be essentials, not debate points.It would have been helpful for Ehrenreich to delve a bit further into her subjects, as the book feels at times less anthropological than polemic.  But in a country where our corporate executives need to make $30 million a year this is definitely a story worth telling and reading.  As Shipler writes, no one who works hard should be poor in America.
5	1106524800	i loved every minute of this book...its amazing how bad the minimum  wage is and how its almost impossible to live off it.  very good read, i definatly recommend it.
5	1106438400	This book is such an illuminating read.  It truly opened my eyes in a way that few other books have been able to do.  Ehrenreich is such a great storyteller, too which makes the book a fun read as well.  I can't imagine that anyone wouldn't enjoy reading this book.  Unless they had some political reason- like, say, they are a manager at Wal-mart or something.  Very entertaining.
5	1106438400	Barbara Ehrenreich gives ditailed look into the reality. the book gave me an insight to the side of america that i never new. it showed how hard it is working in a minimun wage and having to make ends meet.
4	1105660800	Through her book, Nickel and Dimed, Barbara Ehrenreich gives middle and upper class America an overdue glimpse into the lives of the less fortunate.In the beginning of the book, Ehrenreich introduces herself as a well respected writer/journalist with a Ph.D. in biology, who, while having a discussion with Lewis Lapham, editor of Harper's, finds herself on the topic of poverty.  "One of my more familiar themes," Ehrenreich admitted.While on this topic she naively suggests, "Someone ought to do the old-fashioned kind of journalism - you know, go out there and try it for themselves."She soon found herself leaving her middle class life behind in order to work laborious jobs for minimum wage, and she spends the rest of the book describing what she encounters.Ehrenreich gives the reader detailed descriptions of the good and the bad, leaving nothing unexplained.  She is also very passionate about almost everything she comes across, and this is reflected in her writing, allowing the reader to get involved in the story.Throughout the book, Ehrenreich does her best to stay with her intent and experience what she can to the fullest.  Again, her passion for the story is seen as she gets deeper and deeper into it.She even goes as far as to live out of a motel which she describes as, "My little outpost in Motel 6."This idea of experiencing poverty first-hand, however, is somewhat unrealistic.  It is practically impossible to truly experience poverty with a background like Ehrenreich's.  She is well educated and seems to have an agenda in mind, which automatically gives her an upper-hand over her fellow minimum-wage-making co-workers.Furthermore, all the reader has as evidence is Ehrenreich's word as to what she experiences, so although there is no true evidence of this, it can be suspected that Ehrenreich tends to exaggerate the story.This concept is not unheard of considering the fact that the book is meant to get people's interest, but when Ehrenreich generalizes her co-workers at one of her first jobs as, "dysfunctional freaks with crooked, yellowing teeth," the reader begins to wonder how much of her descriptions are sincere, and how many are simply added for their shock factor.True, the basis for the book is not perfect, but Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich is an easy read with a new and interesting point of view and an important moral message.
5	1105574400	Barbara Ehrenreich gives a detailed, eye-opening look into reality in her autobiography, Nickel and Dimed.  Leaving her sheltered life for a journey for her independence and happiness, Ehrenreich explores the world around here while working on a minimum wage salary.  Starting off in Key-West, Florida, she finds that finding a job and an apartment isn't as easy as it seems.  "I never do find an apartment or affordable motel, although I make several attempts," Ehrenreich states.  Learning new things along the way, she zips through Maine and right into Minnesota where she finds her final low-wage job.  While explaining all of the pros and cons of her journey, she takes in all of the rules and lessons she has learned and incorporated them into her life.The most admirable thing about this book is how she makes references to many statistics she has come across about low-wage jobs and the people that work them.  Many people take for granted that they have high paying jobs and can easily support themselves, but fail to recognize the other people who work just as hard as they do for a much lesser pay.  This gets people to realize what really goes on in America and how they work and live.  On page 26, she gives a statistic on how people live, "According to a 1997 report of the National Coalition for the Homeless, nearly one-fifth of all homeless people are employed in full- or part-time jobs."  This is just the tip of the iceberg of the information she touches on in this book.Although it is hard to live on a low-wage job, she is, in a way, trying to infer that it is impossible to live on a low-wage salary.  It isn't impossible, but it certainly is hard.  These harsh statistics definitely prove that to be true.  Nickel and Dimed is supposed to go in-depth on this subject, but in some cases, Ehrenreich goes too far in her explanations, and in some cases, stereotypes managers.  On page 23, she is quoting her manager while at a meeting, "A break room is not a right, it can be taken away."  I've held a job at one point in time and my manager was nothing like that.  There are a few more too in-depth parts within the book.Nickel and Dimed is an extraordinary book, which opens eyes of Americans all across the country.  Going through the life of a low-wage worker is hard to live through, but the story has to be told.  Between the good points of the book about the references to real-life situations and the weak points of going too far in-depth, this book is amazing and I would highly recommend this book to anyone.  The life of Barbara Ehrenreich will change yours forever.
5	1105228800	The book shows how shameful the working wage is in the US. It's not even livable, and this book makes you realize it. You learn some interesting and scary facts in the footnotes. "Nickel" will make you think twice when you walk into Walmart.
3	1105142400	I am enjoying reading this book, and I think it's important for people to realize just how difficult it is to get by on a minimum wage job; however, I think that Ms. Ehrenreich does herself and her readers a disservice by the breezy, often blase tone of the book. This tone, rather like that of a millionaire's wife playing housemaid for a day, is quite distracting from the actual point of the book, which is that "minimum wage" isn't enough to live on.Additionally, Ms. Ehrenreich falls into the unfortunate habit of frequently discussing her education (a Ph.D. in biology no less!) and quoting Marx and using words like "silopsism." As a published author and a possessor of a post-graduate degree, even I have to look up words like silopsism. I found things like this extremely alienating and frustrating, and I think that the book would be more accessible if Ms. Erenreich would focus a bit more the object of her study rather than patting herself on the back for her education.Still, I think it was an admirable attempt, and an interesting experiment, and look forward to reading the last few pages...eventually.
5	1104969600	This book gives the reader insight into a world that many of us refuse to acknowledge exists. It was a fast read, written as much with humor as it was with unadulterated honesty.
5	1104969600	What makes real-life more compelling than fiction?  Read this book to find out.The author didn't need to create stories around survival.  She witnessed them and narrated them.  She didn't need to devise comic relief.  She found them in daily mundane activities. (Read the part about how to clean various types of s--t on toilets during her stint as a maid.) She didn't need to concoct interesting characters to draw out her story. She took ordinary people and made them the stars of her show.Ehrenreich is an excellent writer who writes about people most of us never look twice at.  After reading her book, I'll look at the cashier at Wal-Mart a little differently.  I'll have more respect for the waitress who brings my food and more compassion for those folks doing the kinds of jobs I don't have to.
2	1104624000	This book could have been really good, but it just wasn't.I had to read this book for a Sociology class, so we analyzed the book very thoroughly. At first, I thought this book might be interesting. I work at a big retailer and do basically the same thing that the author did at Wal-Mart in Chapter 3. I was interested to read her perspective about working in retail. After reading the book, though, I'm extremely disappointed in it.My biggest problem is the way that the author comes across in the book. I'm not sure if this is intentional or not, but throughout the book she is condescending and rude to her co-workers and bosses. Sure, she has her own doctorate and is well-off, but that certainly does not make her better than anyone she works with.She also seems extremely prejudiced, especially about conservatives and religious people. I myself am very liberal and non-religious (like the author), but the way she acted disgusted me. Just because people do not have the same political and/or religious beliefs as you does not mean that they're dumber.It was hard to feel bad for her too because no matter what happened she always had the comfort of knowing that she was returning to her old life.I know many people who have to struggle with working at a low-wage job. They face bills, taxes, medical expenses, insurance, providing for their childen, spouses, parents, and/or other family members. This is not their story.
3	1104192000	First, I must say that, for all its faults, this is a book worth reading. It needed to be written, and I applaud the author for doing what she did-an attempt to support herself on minim wage jobs for a year. She shares many telling details of life among the desperately poor, including the highly questionable practices of such employers as Merry Maids and Wal-mart. She makes astute observations regarding human behavior and quality of life in this under-studied group of Americans.I do, however, have some serious gripes with Ehrenreich's book. Mainly, I feel that she weakened her own arguments by her inability to stick to her subject. Ehrenreich takes frequent detours onto topics that are not really related to being poor.Ehrenreich is, in fact, experiencing at least two kinds of culture shock in the course of her experiment. The first culture shock, which she recognizes and intends to write about, is going from her upper middle class income to at or near poverty level. The second, equally significant culture shock, of which she seems only dimly aware, is going from a self-employed journalist to a wage-earner.In order to achieve maximum impact with her book, Ehrenreich needs to stick to the topics specific to poverty, because this is what she purports to be writing about. However, she continually branches off into complaints involving issues that are true of _many_ wage-earners at all economic levels. These two states-poverty and wage earner-are _not_ the same. Ehrenreich, however, doesn't seem to make the distinction.For instance, she spends considerable time griping about "chemically Nazi America." She feels that drugs should be legalized and is very angry that she must undergo drug testing. This would, perhaps, make a suitable topic for another book, but it is _not_ an experience specific to minimum wage workers. Drug testing is very common among many classes of wage earners in America-a fact that she briefly acknowledges, but then goes right on to speak about at length. Ehrenreich is angered particularly because she has been using marijuana and must undergo a self-imposed cleansing before she can pass the test. This, again, is not an issue specific to minimum wage earners. She is confusing her issue and giving her opponents ammunition-something I find distressing, because I do sympathize with her purported topic.Another item Ehrenreich finds infuriating is that she's not allowed to curse at work. Ehrenreich does not seem to realize that, as a journalist, she is in a very linguistically privileged class of workers. Even most self-employed people can not afford to use lots of four-letter words in the course of their business day if they wish to maintain their clientele, and most wage earners at any level will find foul language frowned up at work. Journalists have a linguistic freedom that goes well beyond most other Americans at work. This is not closely related to the plight of minimum wage workers.Aside from her periodic forays into matters non-poverty-related, the other serious flaw in the book is that it makes no attempt to address the most serious argument against raising minim wage-how will you keep all other costs of living from not simply escalating as well? Without at least attempting to answer this question, I feel that the book's conclusion lacks conviction and punch. This is too bad, because the topic is important, and the observations in the book are worth reading-so long readers are willing to sift the material with a critical eye.
2	1104019200	The saddest thing about this book is that it will sell on the concept alone.  A friend recommended this book, and I agreed to read it because I thought it was an intriguing concept: a journalist goes "undercover" to see how low-wage earners really live and survive in today's economy.Unfortunately, the book is neither a simple collection of her observations or even (as I had hoped) a powerful expose about the injustices of low wages.  Rather, this is a 200-page odyssey in which Ehrenreich criticizes her co-workers, her managers, and basically anyone she comes in contact with.. She resents her friends from her former life (because they are yuppies) and refuses to make any real friends in her new life (presumably because they are not her "type" of people).  This promising journalistic exercise is nothing more than a self-righteous, condescending, and downright nasty woman's attempts to prove that she understands everything about the way the world (should) work.Some of the other criticisms from readers on Amazon have pointed out important flaws: she never spends time with her co-workers outside of work or makes any effort to actually live the lifestyle that she claims to have gained such a profound understanding of.  One of the people she actually shows respect for in the book suggests that church is a powerful form of assistance.  Yet Ehrenreich goes to a single revival, and does nothing more than lambaste Christianity and organized religion in general (and of course, the people who find comfort in that religion).Furthermore, "Not Getting by in America" is a deceptive subtitle.  Ehrenreich actually does get by.  Of course it is not picnic, but she is living a subsistent lifestyle for the most part, except for her bouts of pure spoiled self-righteousness.  For instance, once she finally settles in at her job in Key West, she quits because some customers and the manager yell at her one night.  And when she scores a $10 an hour job, she refuses the job because she doesn't feel like working the next day (although she had not been working at all up until that point).And somehow we are to believe that this woman has done the world a service?
5	1103846400	I thought this would be a risky book for me because, being a social worker, it's hard to move me with the pop-sociology tales of woe designed to galvanize people for whom the issues are shocking. Not that I don't usually recognize the pains and injustices and human suffering....but it's hard for a writer to make me feel for the tale of Linda in Detroit when I know plenty of Lindas in my own backyard and my priorities lie with them.However, Ehrenreich has moved far beyond that. She writes with the clarity, the conciseness, the analytical ability to which I aspire myself. At times the sheer absurdity of her situation even brings her to employ some humor. She is able to repeat her central point: low wage workers in America are not paid enough to survive, without belaboring the point because she tackles that central point from so many different angles.I came to care about the people she described precisely because she didn't attempt to use their suffering to yank on my emotions. She just reported what she saw. Then she went beyond that to talk about the degradations, the hopelessness, and what she called "the repetitive stress injuries of the soul" that plague people stuck in wage slavery. (That phrase will stick with me for a long time.)This is well-researched and properly documented. It's not hard to see why the right is calling Ehrenreich "the Satan of Chapel Hill" and "the biggest enemy of God and the American family". Her honesty and courage have made her one of my new heroines (turns out she was at demo in DC that I was also attending and she may have been there when I was arrested, but I never knew it). The only pity is that Michael Moore is hogging the attention that Ehrenreich so richly deserves.
2	1103673600	I did in fact read this book in one sitting. And much to my "surprise" i found the author to be very snotty and felt that she fell VERY short of what she was trying to find out. In the beginning of the book I couldn't decide if I should keep reading or stop dead in my tracks. Nonetheless I continued with it. In some parts I questioned this woman's authority to be saying she had to eat and have housing to make it, I don't think anyone told her that she doesn't always have to have a table to dine at or food on it for that matter. And was she racist or was it just me? I tried to understand when she first started saying weird things, telling myself that "she needs to do it so we could better understand the book" but after two comments I wanted to throw-up on her. The only reason i would recommend this book to anyone is if they 1. were a housekeeper at anytime, which i was and found parts of this book funny. and 2. if you already hate wal*mart
3	1103500800	I found this book a fascinating read.  Like many others who have reviewed it, I had a hard time putting it down.  I don't expect that anyone wouldn't find it interesting.However, if you're looking for evidence of anything, stop now.  The author took this experiment upon herself with little regard for true scientific and experimental protocol and procedures.  The fact that her experiment fails says nothing about what is really real.For example, the author states no one can afford to live on the wages she earned during the time she spent making minimum wage.  What she fails to realize is that the ability to afford something changes with the amount of income one makes.  There are middle income families who cannot afford to live on what they make.  This is proportional to what they SPEND.  There are many instances during which the author spends money somewhat frivilously given her circumstances.  This touches upon the true problem we have in America:  the unwillingness of the general population to live within their means.Had this author spent any real time in the homes of these "poor" folks, she may have had further insight into how they conduct their lives.  There are many who stretch every dollar to the last ha' penny.  I've seen it myself.Necessities are another issue.  Many poor families have television sets (and big ones, at that).  A tv (and cable), cell phone, make-up, perfume, cigarettes, and beer are considered necessities by many people--I think it would surprise the average person how true this is.I think this is a great beginning, but more (and better) research needs to be done.  Taking someone's word for what they can and can't afford doesn't cut it.  True inspection of the lifestyles and spending habits of the study population is warranted.
5	1102636800	Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed: On (not) Getting By in America is a book that I would recommend to everyone, who is interested and/or has to do in one way or another, direct or indirect, with the American economy and social system. It leaves the reader with a clear, undoubted and realistic view of the life of the poor in the World's wealthiest and strongest country, in a time of overall economic expansion. It reveals that things are not as good as one thinks of or imagines. The working poor in USA can not (easily) survive, even with two full time jobs. It rings to light the fact that no job is "unskilled", as Americans inappropriately call the labor of the work slaves, and the ways in which the poor are exploited to the limit by their employers. Ehrenreich reveals the techniques of the owner of businesses, which they use to manipulate, mislead and restrict their workers. The author makes it clear that the government should interfere, if it is to care and provide better, or at least substantial, living conditions for a major part of its citizens.But Ehrenreich does not just put all those thoughts on paper as a sociological theorist. On the contrary, she does a fieldwork, which provides her wit irrefutable support of her thesis. She lives the life of the poor in three different states, working several different jobs just in order to be able to pay he next rent and have something to eat. Even with all the advantages of her middle-class status, which she tries not to use as much as physically possible, she experiences almost all the difficulties of an actual working poor. She becomes one for the duration of her experiment.And the organization of the book helps Ehrenreich even more in her attempt to show the real conditions of life for the poor. The introduction clarifies the rest of the book, making sure that the reader understands correctly her reasons and the initial conditions of her work. Then, in the main part, the author proves logically her thesis by making true conclusions on obvious facts. The Evaluation part of the book completes her analysis and states her views of the future development of the problem. Throughout the book, the writer uses rich additional research to support and expand her findings, which makes them even stronger. And finally, Ehrenreich's sense of humor makes it easy to go through the book enjoying it without losing interest or focus.Personally, the book created a much realistic view of the American social system, which was somewhat unexpected and surprising to me. It made me feel sorry and angry at times, and somewhat hopeful on other occasions, but as a whole - aware of the way, in which the poor in America live. I was impressed with the work the author did and found it really important that there is such a book and such work has actually been done, because theorizing and speculating seems easy to me, but real work is hard even to begin, let alone complete. I strongly recommend the book to everyone.
5	1102550400	I read this book about one year ago and also saw Barbara Ehrenreich on Book TV or a similar program. I saw the book in the library today and just had to read it again. This is a great book because the message that it delivers about the working poor is so important. Tens of millions of Americans work full-time, year-round, for poverty level wages.You will learn that most of these jobs are not unskilled, that they require quite a high level of skill both physical and mental. You will learn that in most cases as rents go up that there is no corresponding rise in wages for the working poor and you will learn why this occurs. Our economic system as it is presently structured is wholly dependent upon tens of millions of working poor and upon the illusion that these same people do not have to be poor if they would just go out and get a better job.The reality is that vast amounts of wealth for a small percentage of the population is gained upon the backs of these working poor. This situation is continuing and will continue into the future because of the webs of denial about the working poor and the lies about how easy it is to move up the ladder. The author has both courage and empathy as she goes face to face with the problem and tells us frankly what is going on in the workplace.
4	1102291200	Barbara Ehrenreich, the author of the novel "Nickel and Dimed", tries to express the hardships of the American lower class.  She goes about doing this by submerging herself into the world of the lower class.  Among the lessons she found were that no job is truly unskilled.  She learned that the lower class sacrifices a lot so that more fortunate people can live a good life, "...[t]hey neglect their own children so that the children of others will be cared for; they live in substandard housing so that other homes will be shiny and perfect..." (221).  Ehrenreich found that a person making $7 an hour will have several difficulties trying to make ends meet, housing being a major aspect.  The main difficulty of finding affordable housing is that almost any rental requires the first month's rent and a security deposit in advanced.  With the amount of money that these people were receiving they could not come up with the money needed.  Because of this, Ehrenreich found that many of her co-workers were living in there cars.  Also, many of her co-workers did not have enough money for proper nutrition and doctor visits when they would become ill.  Barbara Ehrenreich tried to receive help with the aid of food stamps and shelters but no one could help her because she worked and had an income.Her experiences are all explained throughout her book, "Nickel and Dimed".  I believe that Ehrenreich shed some light on various situations that the lower class has to endure, in their everyday life that many people did not know.  I think that the book was very well written and that it possibly could have changed things even in the slightest notion.
4	1101945600	I chose to read Nickel and Dimed because it seemed like a very interesting book and i thought that I could somehow be able to relate to it and also learn a lot from it.  i'm happy that i read it because it made me realize that there are a lot of things that happen to workers that no one ever hears about.I really liked reading about the experiences she had working in the different jobs like cleaning houses and waitressing. She wrote about many things authors don't write about. She told the truth about the realities of having to live at a poverty level.  she clearly says that there is no possible way that someone can have only one minimum paying job and be able to afford a roof over their head. that is the main thing that i liked about this book, was that she told the truth about everything she encountered.
4	1101686400	Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickle and Dimed is a great book. It reads like a novel while giving you a glimpse into the harsh world of America's minimum wage working class. You end the book with an enormous amount of respect for the minimum wage workers who are forced to work two seperate labor ridden jobs in order to keep from living off the street. You are also left with a burning anger for those who are paying these people such low wages. After reading this book you will gladly leave a larger tip for that waitress who brought you the grilled cheese.
3	1101600000	I first read this as a project for a freshman college program. I discussed it at length with a journalism professor and several journalism students. But while this book is a stirring commentary on the low-wage lifestyle, it's credibility is quite low. Ehrenreich comes at it with the scientific vigor of a biologist (which she was before a writer), but that vigor fades soon after she starts her "experiment". Ehrenreich focuses on the least compelling story--her own, and acts condescendingly to her coworkers, acting as if she was superior to them because her plight is only temporary.I also had the pleasure of witnessing Dr. Ehrenreich lecture, and it must be said that she clearly panders to her audience. She is aware that most readers will be of liberal inclination, and often makes comments which may serve to isolate a conservative readership. Balanced this ain't, but on the otherhand, balance is not what she is striving for here.While her prose is good and honest, her style may be annoying or even offensive. She takes a lot of "facts" per granted, and offers little credible research beyond her own opinions. Her expereinces reflect the true plight of the low wage worker relatively well, but purists would be appalled at some of the corners she cuts. If you're looking for a stirring first-person, this is definitely the book for you. If you expect research and an academic approach, look elsewhere.
4	1101254400	This book about America's working poor is interesting but is  only a small window into the lives of these people. The author, naturally, has many advantages over her co-workers and this shows through loud and clear during her experiment. She also has a somewhat elitist attitude towards those she works with and constantly reminds us of her Phd and how "over-qualified" she is for many of these jobs.No doubt, it will surely be an eye opening book for those who've never had the experience of growing up in this sort of situation (or never getting the opportunity to get out of it). For me it was an all too painful a reminder of my teen years and the horrible job at a fast food joint where I worked double shifts, was often called a peon by management and went home smelling and feeling like I'd been dipped in the fry-o-later all for a measly pittance. Finishing school and taking a few college courses changed the course of my life but many don't have this option (or realize it too late). It's difficult to advance past an entry level job when one needs such luxuries as food and shelter and then if you throw children into the mix things are pretty glum. This book mainly made me sad but there were a few moments of light and genuine human kindness.However, in the end this book turns out to be just one woman's very limited experiences. I completely agree with her that it is very difficult (near impossible) to get out of the entry level job once you're knee deep in debt or have children and are no longer collecting (or never have) welfare. But I do have issues with her Welfare Reform rants and it is painfully obvious that she is looking at this from an outsiders point of view. She rants at length about the evils of Welfare Reform (and I agree with some points ~ some people just can't make it on their own) but she doesn't once state that some positives can and DO come out of it. It enables (or at least it did in the early/mid 90's) under-educated people with drive and desire to go out and gain a certificate or learn a trade at the state's expense that can be a stepping stone for a life-long career not just a mindless job. Back in the 90's when I was barely out of my teens I could have quit my entry level receptionist's job, had a baby out of wedlock and signed up for welfare. My daycare costs would've been mostly covered (I know someone who paid $12 a week while I paid $150 up until last year), I would've been eligible for discounted housing (called Section 8 in Mass) & free schooling (I would've loved to have been able to learn how to style hair but couldn't afford the classes & would've had to quit my job to attend). Instead I scraped by and slowly took a few college courses which I paid for while slowly gaining on-the-job knowledge and moving up in the ranks. So, while Welfare Reform isn't perfect by any means it also isn't always the big bad evil thing that the author makes it out to be . . . I think she should've interviewed a few more people than the small number she did before she made such one-sided statements to suit her closing arguments in her book and rushing back to her "upper middle class" lifestyle.
1	1100736000	The book was mediocre until the last chapter. Then she began surmonizing and it went downhill from there.
5	1100390400	Barbara Ehrenreich's book: Nickel and Dimed is a real eye opener. Ms. Ehrenreich decides to attempt to live on the living wage, $6 to $7 an hour, that our society has standardized as the minimum wage. Considering that 12 million young mothers were dumped into the ranks of the working poor due to Welfare Reform, this is a worthy experiment. Ehrenreich is totally upfront with the readers by specifying the conditions of her social experiment. She starts out with $1000 in cash. She keeps her car. She has her credit cards for backup in case of emergency. And yet even with these "back-ups" she ends up working two minimum wage jobs just to barely survive.She works as a professional maid in a maid service company. She works as a hotel maid. She works in Wal-Mart. She works in a family restaurant as a waitress. She works as a nursing home cook.  She works in Florida, Maine, and Minneapolis. Through all these experiences a common thread is developed which the reader should recognize and gain better insight into the plight of the working poor in our country.The plight of the working poor in this nation is disgraceful. They are mistreated by supervisors and customers. They must have more than one minimum wage job just to survive. Transportation and housing are barely affordable to persons in this class. Healthy care, child care, and disease/illness prevention strategies are frequently beyond their means. Ehrenreich reveals a national disgrace created by ever widening gaps between rich and poor.This book is not policy analysis but it is very well written and gives the reader insights into the daily struggle for survival for the working poor. There is a social contract in the United States that if a citizen is willing to work full time, that they should be able to afford some basic level of shelter/housing, food, clothing, and transportation (public or self-owned). Ehrenreich reveals that we have broken the social contract. We have created systems that transfer wealth to the top 1% of our citizens at the expense of the bottom 40% (the unemployed poor and working poor).  This is shameful.I greatly enjoyed this book even though I became angry at the lack of social justice in our society. Go Barbara Go!
5	1100217600	Whether you like this book or not depends in large part on why you're reading it.One might read this book as an anthropology of the lower working class in America.  Read this way, it's fascinating and well-written.  Those of us who don't get by on $6-7/hour should know what it's like for those who do.You might read this book for its politics.  If you're on the Left, you'll like it; on the Right, you'll hate it.  For good reasons.You might want to read this book to think seriously about public policy.  Reading the book this way is very tricky.  Ehrenreich provides plenty of anecdotes -- her own experiences, and the experiences of those she meets.  Anecdotes are a very weak foundation for public policy, though they're a good motivation for getting interested in public policy.You might also read this book as a civil libertarian.  Ehrenreich documents appalling violation of civil liberties and human decency.  Most readers will direct that anger toward businesses, but it's important to realize that these violations occur because governments don't enforce the rules we have.If you're in business and actually use some of the personality tests that Ehrenreich discusses, read this book and think twice about what you're doing.  Whether they're ethical or not, I think it's pretty clear from this book that they're ineffective.  Anybody can, and does, game the tests.However you read it, I'd still read it.  It's interesting, well-written, and thought provoking -- as you can probably tell from all the thoughts and non-thoughts that it has provoked here at Amazon.
5	1099872000	*Nickled and Dimed* is an essential, sobering, quick read that records the author's experience taking low wage jobs in three different cities over the course of three months.  She illustrates the difficulties of making ends meet on what passes in America as a "living wage" and i think she does this with honest intentions and detailed disclosure.She brings to light that there is a deeper problem in this great country than many want to admit with the grand canyon like divide between rich and poor.  She wants us to re-evaluate our country's relationship with and policies towards low-wage earners, most of whom are working their a**es off just to survive.  She also wants to honor working americans who go to their jobs every day with little or no safety net; people who can't take a day off sick, cause if they do, their families won't eat.Granted, she isn't able to duplicate every single variable that low wage earners face and importantly, she also has her "other" life to fall back on once this "grand experiment" is over with, as many reviewers seem to take issue with.  No doubt there are people who have done more with much less, or people with stories that make her's look like club med, or she could have saved $3 by eating a whopper instead of a big mac, etc, and those stories need to be heard, too.  that's not the point.  People, this is ONE WOMAN'S EXPERIENCE that is a moving and provacative read.  read this book!
2	1099612800	While the idea behind this book was good, the reality of being in the poorest working classes was missed.  The author did not have children, did not have day care issues, had her credit cards and her bank account as a back up.  Most, if not all, of the people she worked with and wrote about do not have this type of support.  When she got a rash, she called her dermatologist - the working poor do not even have a doctor, let alone a dermatologist.The author set a time frame of one month per job, anybody who is in the desparate sitation described, would be held to that job for years.  They would not have the luxury of simply walking away.  Most people in this position end up working at entry level jobs for many, many years.  They have to make sure that there is a paycheck so that at least some of the basic needs of life are met.While it does give a bit of insight into the lives of these workers, it falls short in painting the true picture.
4	1099526400	I finished this book in a few days, but after about the first 15 pages, I felt like my perspective and view of the world had already been broadened.  Sure, Ms. Ehrenreich didn't live the life as destitute-ly as she might have, but her point still comes across quite clearly.  Rather than the holier-than-thou attitude of "she didn't live a life of poverty compared to what *I* went through" of some of the other reviews, perhaps it's more important to recognize *what* Ehrenreich is striving to communicate about these lives.  It's possible that not every reader is even cognizant of the circumstances under which so many people live, and as such, this book provides a valuable portrait that will undoubtfully raise the reader's awareness.So, if you were raised in less-than-fortunate circumstances, maybe this book will irritate you becuase she didn't commit to her experiment 100% of the time and your working-poor situation was undoubtably more excruciating for a dozen reasons.  However, for those of you lucky to have had a comfortable life, don't apologize, don't let others' make you feel guilty. Instead, raise your awareness and recognize how lucky you are.Lastly, this book will probably make you appreciate your current job a lot more.
4	1098316800	As I write this review - having just finished the book - there are 724 reviews here on Amazon.  As I read through a few, it is apparent that most reader are finding "Nickel and Dimed" good fodder for political discussion.  I'm certain that was Ehrenreich's intentention.  But, I suggest that you read it, not to hone you position of social movements and political causes.  Rather read it as I have tried, to come to an understanding of other humans who are trying to make ends meet.  I come away enlightened and somewhat ashamed of some of my own preconceptions.I will never stand behind a person in a convenience store who pays for hot dogs and potato chips with food stamps and think of them like I used to - with smug condecension.  Do they have a home?  Pots and pans? A microwave? One more way for me to "judge not lest I be judged".I used to take the genteel view that servers in a retaurant were there to serve, not to engage in conversation.  I save my thank-you for the tip rather that the placement of each fresh item.  I will probably continue to be snooty with the snooty waiters during my rare visit to 5-star restaurants.  But, I hope I take kinder view toward the working mother serving me at Denny's.  I may not change the world, but a kind word from me may help her endure the shift.  "With what measure you measure out, it will be measure out to you in return".
2	1098144000	At first I was overwhelmed with enthusiasm to read Ehrenreich's book as, I consider myself nothing short of a class warrior.  However, Ehrenreich more than "missed the boat" on her attempt to capture the life of the working poor.Coming from the working poor and still being quite close to it, I can tell you that the lifestyle Ehrenreich pawned off as that of the working poor was greviously understated.  While she spoke of her co-workers who lived in their cars or held sometimes three jobs, she herself lived in hotels and whined about working one job.  She complained about mundain tedious tasks suck while working at Wal-Mart as if tediousness was truly the worst thing about being strapped by cooperate America.  When work got too hard, she quit.  She took months off in between stints at different position and ate fast food (a  luxury item for most poor people).  She even "bargain shopped" as if people who are poor don't know the number one places to go for cheap clothing items- shelters or thrift stores.There are just too many complaints to list.  However, I gave the book two stars for existing as a bridge for those people of the upper class who might encounter this as their first exposure to poor people.  I say to them, buy this book if you are thinking about ordering it while sitting in front of an Apple Power Book in your 1100 square-foot Apartment you share with you "partner."  But realize this isn't even half of the story.  Barbara Ehrenreich is a hack.  If you think after reading this book that she is someone special who sacrificed herself to give you an experience of what it is like to struggle, you are a hack too.
4	1097625600	Nickeled and Dimed has an interesting premise: an upper middle class woman tries to live on wages of an unskilled jobs in three different locations in the US.  Here Ehrenreich describes her experiences doing just that and tries to relate these experiences to a larger frame of reference by laying out statistics about the US.From having done this and that over the summers while in college and having spent the past year earning 3.85/hour plus room and board I can sort of compare my experiences in accessing Ehrenreich's book.  Two things that made Ehrenreich's experiences harder than they probably would be for a person who was living the life that she was trying to visit are that she moved around frequently and she wasn't as frugal a shopper as she could have been.  The moving around means that she was always starting fresh.  From my experience after about 2 months in a city I know where to go for this and that and my expenses drop.  Also she wasn't the most frugal person.  When she had to get khaki pants on short notice for a waitressing job, she spent 40$ on pants with a stain from a discount store.  In Florida (the same state) at about the same time I had to get khaki pants on short notice and found them for 15$.  I'm kind if fat and so there was less of a selection for me than for someone in a more common size.  I doubt that normal people in such jobs would spend 40$ on pants.  15$ felt like alot to me.  From Ehrenreich's description she didn't bat an eye at 40$Ehrenrich's descriptions of co-worker's plights are more realistic.  While it isn't so hard to get by at poverty level (unless you get sick like missing work sick) I have trouble imagining how to raise a family on minimum wage.  Descriptions of co-workers whose food budget was tiny are common.  I kind of wonder how these people felt about being quizzed.  I feel that there was too much focus on rent and food.  These are big expenses but they are predictable.  Once one finds a way to make ends meet that's stable at least.One aspect of being poor that I feel was neglected was the lack of medical care.  Insurance coverage is expensive and if it doesn't come with the job then that is a big budgeting item.  Also jobs without benefits are the one that pay less.  Also the difficulty in getting sit down work if one gets injured is a huge issue.  Ehrenreich kind of touches on these with statistics and concern for a co-worker with a sprained ankle respectively, but she spends most of her time discussing how the nations poor can't buy food or make rent and trying to make poverty an immediate life or death issue.  For me poverty is about not having a safety net.When I was working for 3.85 and room and board (no benefits at all) I had a co-worker with higher pay use this book to explain how easy I had it.  At the time I was trying to scrape together enough for a dental visit and pay some work related expenses.  (I had switched jobs and underestimated the fees for work related training and equipment.)  She was angry that I was having trouble getting cash together because that reflected badly on the company.  Which brings me to a point:  Everyday you are in contact with someone who is living at poverty level.  Because they shower and know how to get by you may not realize this.  The starving limping people Ehrenreich describes aren't common, but that shouldn't be used to undercut the problems faced by poor people who are not in an emergency state right now.  It seems to me that many of the people I know who have read this book have strange ideas about the poor to begin with.  So if you haven't been poor for a while then don't make this your only source for info about it.I reccommend Nikeled and Dimed, but take it with a grain of salt.  Ehrenreich is a tourist of poverty and has a shallow impression not a deep understanding of the issues.
1	1097539200	I have been assigned this book in two classes, so I have trudged through it twice now. The author's snide tone is possibly the most ostensible annoyance, but worse is her unmitigated hatred of businesses, managers, people who own expensive things, and anyone who succeeds at making money. This hatred breaks into full scale paranoia at points, such as her comments on drug testing as being part of a corporate conspiracy to make low wage workers feel bad.I personally have survived on less than Ehrenreich makes at some of her jobs, and did not find it nearly as hard as she did. Perhaps her abominable money management skills had something to do with that (Wendy's for lunch and Sbarro's for dinner every day?!). I actually did the math in the book and was left wondering what exactly she did with her money that left her unable to pay rent and buy food.Here is a sample: Let's take a wage of $7 per hour, 40 hours per week. 7x40=280. That's for one week. Four weeks in a month, so 280x4=1120. Ehrenreich gets a $500 per month efficiency apartment. So 1120-500=620. Let's give her $50 per week for groceries (that's what I spend on myself anyways). 620-(50x4)=400. She has 420 dollars (105 per week) extra. Lets give her a $20 per week gas bill and car insurance at $100 per month. 400-(4x20)-100= 240. After taking care of her basic living needs and transportation, she still has 240 left over! Imagine what she would have left over if she had a roommate! I fail to understand how her experiment failed. I've been performing her experiment for about 4 years now, and I seem to be doing ok.
4	1097539200	'Nickled and Dimed' is from that wonderful subcatergory of enlightening social non-fiction that is beginning to pop up and entertain and inform. Among this works are the massly popular 'Fast Food Nation'.And it is both entertaining and informative. In many ways, it is the most entertaining of its kind because it relies on a social experiment to make it point rather than endless eventually-meaningless facts. Rather, Ehrenreich has scattered important and enlightening facts throughout the work, but the emphasis is not random facts but actual individuals. However, the factual evaluation sucessfully ties in the entire work and is excellently written and researched.I felt that Ehrenreich should have considered one more place/job, because the actual experiment ends on a low and somewhat meandering note when she is unable to succeed in Minnesota. I perhaps thought three was too few, though I understand that the story is likely to repeat itself in every city/township across America.Finally, I like many other reivewers, would like to point out a majorly annoying flaw about the work. The fact that Ehrenreich continously mentions her education. Anyone would think she was the first person to get a pHD. She seems suprised that her workmates are not stunned by the fact she is so educated. I gather they have more important things to concern themselves with. She is also liable to mention her roots and her father's job, as if it makes her that much more empathetic with the situation of low-paid workers now they she exists in another social class entirely. Certainly, the work is still infused with the fact that Ehrenreich has another life, but this is perhaps inescapable.I found this to be a real sticking point, and I occasionally wonder whether it undermined or blurred the purpose of the work.Still, short, readable, entertaining and ultimately enlightening.
5	1096588800	My only complaint about this book is that a Christian should have written it a long time ago. I respect Ehrenreich's  willingness to slip into a lower income lifestyle for a while and then slip back out to tell the nation what she learned. My kids are reading books like The Jungle. Teachers ought to follow it with Nickle and Dimed.
3	1096502400	i looked forward to reading this book because of all the good reviews. it was a good book but i felt that the author was very condecending in her tone when she was writing this. she also had an "out" when the going got rough, so can it really be an accurate look at this part of society?the most trying part of this book was the editing. this woman is a PhD. did no one edit her? there were so many grammatical errors, particularly ending sentances in a preposition that it became distracting to me while reading.
1	1096070400	I read this book as an assignment for a sociology class.. I don't know where to start. Complete hogwash. She acts like people expect dead-end jobs to be true careers. Jobs like the ones she gets should be for students, people who are just starting out or want to boost the household income, part-timers, bored seniors, but not people looking for a career. Not only that, but there is always the opportunity to advance yourself. The author has just such an opportunity in the book, to earn more at another job, but she turns it down because "she knows nothing of the field." Big deal! They would have trained her, and then she would have had a new job skill, and an increased income. Guess that didn't fit into her liberal propaganda. Finally, I have gotten by on such a job, WITH a "car", (Tempo) at a job at a convenience store on less than she earns in the book. How did I break out of it? I entered a new field, one I knew nothing about, got myself trained and got some work experience, and now I have no debts, a paid off Mustang, and am preparing for my first home purchase. All in less than 10 years. I didn't get this by sitting there crying about how the world is against me. Oh, and if my advancing was a grand conspiracy because I am a white male, well that's interesting, because my boss is a woman, her boss is a woman, and the director of human resources at my job is a BLACK woman. So if I moved up because I am a white male, then 3 women, one of them black, had a hand in it. The point is, if you insist on sticking with dead-end jobs like she did, yes, your life will suck. So, get a better job! There are no better jobs in your area? MOVE! Go to where the good jobs are. It's not a new idea.
5	1095292800	I read many non-fiction books a year and as a part-writer, I think I tend to be critical.  This book was recommend by a college professor of mine and I was truly moved.  It was been at least two years since I read the book so some of the points are probably not pristine or foremost in my memory, that said, the author gave a concise, yet descriptive essence of what it really is like to be a hardworking person without the necessary skills to be middle class.  She poses as a recently divorced, 50 something woman with no specialized skills and a high school diploma.  She then starts "new" in several different communities throughout the U.S., to see what opportunities await.  Sadly, she finds large responsibilities (feeding a large nursing home population that are wheelchair bound and mentally challenged), for little pay.One job as a cleaning woman, finds her working in the homes of the wealthy (where she is not allowed to accept even a glass of water (co. policy) and the cleaning guidelines will make you sick to your stomach. At one point, she tells of a worker who is so sick she from hunger that she almost faints on the job.  Another image that stands out in my mind is her description of cleaning out massive quantities of pubic hair from someone's hot tub, EEEUUUUUUWWW!!Another challenges she faces along with those who are constantly bullied and intimidated to keep them from ever even mentioning "Union" (Walmart) with cameras and microphones in every corner makes one realize that Big Brother has arrived.  Has society truly evolved?  It doesn't appear that we are a kinder, gentler nation, just the opposite, greed is the appeal to all those who want "low prices everyday".This is a great book for all those who explain away the working poor as lazy.  Or those who think that Bill O'Reilly and Rush Limbaugh have their finger on the pulse of America.Also, a great gift to teens who may be thinking that they don't need to pursue academics.  Barbara aptly demonstrates the trap of one dead end job after another in a world with little hope of escape.
5	1095292800	If you enjoy non-fiction, (even in this "reality" imbued culture) this book is for you. Having worked in the food service industry, I identified with Barbara's undercover stint as a waitress. After finishing this book, I did find work that wasn't so gruelling ( which I was very grateful to find) Barbara gives an intellegent view behind the curtain of several types of low-wage servant-type jobs with wit and verve. It was a learning experience and an enjoyable read.How often do you get that?
1	1095033600	Before I read this book, I had heard fantastic reviews and nothing but good things regarding what Barbara Ehrenreich had to say regarding her experiences.  Imagine my surprise and disappointment when I actually read the book.Barbara Ehrenreich has a PhD.  If you don't know that, don't worry, she'll remind you every two pages or so about her obvious superiority to her "fellow workers", whom she treats with both disrespect and condescension ("I am, of course, very different from the people who normally fill America's least attractive jobs").  After about a week or so of her "experiment", she starts to spout Marx and Lenin as if this was 1917 and we were all Russian peasants.  It's obvious to me that Barbara (or Babs, as she becomes about half-way through the book) had a preconceived idea about what kind of book she wanted to write, and she went out of her way to write just that book.1. She starts her "poverty experiment" in Key West, Florida.  Since Key West is one of the most expensive cities in the US, it's no shock that she had a tough time here.  Saying its difficult to live as a waitress in Key West is like saying it's difficult to get a decent apartment in Manhattan2. Her next pick, a few months later, is Portland, Maine.  Leaving aside for the time being the fact that she has to come up with first and last months rent twice in three months is a pretty good indicator of her ability to manage her money.  (Perhaps she would do better without moving around so much).  This being August, the height of the tourist season, her choice of Maine is tantamount to picking The Hamptons or Laguna Beach.  Competing with the tourists for housing doesn't give an indication of affordability of housing in America; it's just an indicator of how expensive it is to be a tourist.3. I'm really surprised about her next pick, Minnesota, not for where it is, but why.  Her thought of going to California was nixed, not for practical reasons, but based on "My worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the crap jobs and substandard housing for themselves".  WOW!  We've got a real open minded one here.4. Her refusal to take a drug test for Winn-Dixie in Florida is based on her refusal to "submit to the indignity" of peeing in a cup for a perfect stranger.  Only later on does she discuss her "Chemical Indiscretion" that would show up in a drug test.  I guess it's an indignity to get caught with drugs in your system, right Babs?  It must be pretty tough to make ends meet with all your cash going for weed and beer.5. As she is quitting each and every job, she makes it a point to tell her co-workers that she is a PhD, and she is only doing this for a book.  Imagine how surprised she is each time to find out no one cares.  It's as if she is saying "Don't you see, I don't belong here...I'm better than you".  (Please see first paragraph regarding her over qualification to hold America's least attractive jobs).Overall, this is just an exercise in overindulgence and journalistic deceit designed to produce a preconceived outcome that the author took special pains to arrange.  It's a shame, because an honest experiment and an honest book would have been so much more educational and enlightening.
3	1094774400	Ehrenreich is a skilled writer, and it shows in this book.  Its strength lies in the simple first-hand account of what many of these jobs are really like both physically and psychologically.  The footnotes also provide good data, which I think would give a more fact-based study.  This should give people a better understanding of the working poor.  However, some of her self-imposed constraints were unrealistic, such as living alone (and hence often having to rent hotel rooms and thus having to eat out).  At the wages she was paid, most would get a roommate and hence could afford rent for an apartment and be able to cook her own meals rather than eat out.  Also, she had this long rant about taking drug tests, but smoked pot shortly in the weeks before taking one.  This raised some questions as: she was near broke, so where did she get the money for the pot? if you know you will have to take drug tests and are desperate for a job why do something so reckless (and the whine about it)?  She always whined about employers suspicious of employees stealing.  Working these jobs when I was younger, I have seen this happen a lot, so I don't think this is so unreasonable.  Other times, she seemed to have elitist attitudes towards Christians and some conservatives (e.g., comments about choice of books for those who hired the maid service).
4	1094169600	Author Barbara Ehrenreich takes on welfare reform in a compelling way, by subjecting herself to a series of low-wage jobs in Florida, Maine and Minnesota. The result is a provocative and often indignant look at how women forced off welfare try to make ends meet in a stacked-deck world. What starts out as an interesting sociological experiment about living in poverty turns into something far deeper and self-revelatory about survival from paycheck to paycheck. Even though she gives herself an advantage upfront by keeping her car and having $1000 in an emergency fund, she dives headlong into her first person study by taking on the burden of this study by separating herself from family and friends.In each locale, Ehrenreich struggles to find a place to live in which she feels safe, while considering whether it is cheap enough that she will still have money left for food and transportation. She also faces the difficulty of becoming ill and needing medical care. Ehrenreich struggles to cover the expenses for just herself and learns through co-workers what can happen if one also has dependents. It is this realistic compilation of situations that makes the book singe with realistic observations at which Ehrenreich is adept. As she finds out, second jobs and the help of family, friends and even outside agencies are vital for workers at this level in the economy. The book can feel relentless in the constant exhaustion she must have felt at the end of each day, and I'm sure this is intentional. It is in this level of detail that she is quite effective in portraying the everyday lives of people who are not only "getting by" but also showing great pride in their work and ability to earn a living. Ehrenreich shares lots of statistics, but the more important aspect of this book is how she writes about what happens to her spirit, her feeling of self-worth. In the jobs, she discovers the reality of becoming a non-person. It is in her descriptions of not being seen as who she is, not being valued, that really makes this book come alive.In an odd way, this book reminds me of the old forties Preston Sturges movie, "Sullivan's Travels", about the Hollywood director who masquerades as a hobo so he can understand the plight of the downtrodden "real" people. Both that movie and this book dance on the line between straightforward social protest and an often painful acknowledgment of inconvenience, which translates into truths that we choose to ignore because we simply can. The reader gets a sense of outrage peeking at the trials of poor Americans, both in Ehrenreich's own test case and in the real lives of the many people she met during her grim adventures. It is the difference in her situation versus theirs that allows a certain elitist viewpoint to creep in at times. Toward the end of the book, she takes a self-congratulatory tone for her months of sacrifice and crusading journalistic integrity, but to be fair, she keeps this attitude in check as she expresses a real sense of compassion for her coworkers.Her final chapter is an overview of the problems of the working poor from a more analytic perspective, and her conclusions are bleak. While the Bush administration boasts about getting welfare mothers off the dole and into gainful employment, these women are, in reality, sinking more deeply into poverty. One gets the sinking feeling this will be a perpetual state unless employers are willing to pay their employees a living wage and take into consideration their long-term health. A painful and thought-provoking read but highly recommended.
4	1092528000	I managed to get through about 3 chapters in this book before I got bored, which isn't bad.  Generally, Ehrenreich does a good job of conveying what many already know; on the other hand, she made too much of her own 'blight' -- after all, she *is* a writer and not a minimum wage worker.This is a must-read for anyone who doesn't think it is worth reading -- or doesn't *know* that it is worth reading; it's a little disappointing for someone expecting to see something beyond fact-based reporting of everyday lives of minimum-wage workers.
2	1091664000	In Ehrenreich's world - the one she inhabits, not the one she dabbled in - chilled wine, doobies, spa workouts and gourmet dinners rule. She lives in a luxury house, in a luxury neighborhood in hip Key West. She has, as she repeatedly tells us, an advanced degree.Ehrenreich's world is as far removed from the middle class as it is from the minimum wage class (no, I don't recall her ever saying &quot;working class.&quot;) In fact, throughout the book I was reminded of the great movie by Frank Capra, &quot;Sullivan's Travel's.&quot; In it, a famous, and filthy rich, film director takes off to find the &quot;real&quot; victims of dust bowl America. At first his valet and PR agent follow in an RV.At last, after many &quot;comical&quot; mishaps, Sullivan vividly experiences what it means to be dirt poor. It's a moving, romantic notion of a movie but somehow seems closer in to the truth than a spoiled intellectual dipping a toe into our swine trough.Ehrenreich is quite patronizing in her viewpoints of the women she works with. She disparages their notions of how life should be lived - because they don't agree with hers.I don't disagree that minimum wage is not a living wage. In fact, in might surprise Ehrenreich to know that you can't live at twice the minimum wage. I know. I've done it for real. The $10 an hour she would have gotten from Home Depot does not stretch any more than the $7 she got elsewhere. (Taxes! More wardrobe needs! Required overtime which requires more childcare!)There was no news in her book - unless you come from a middle class family and have earned six figures since you graduated from college.Rent the movie. You'll like it more and get a better sense of humanity.
5	1091404800	I just finished this book and am still torn on my feelings about the topic. On one hand, I believe that life is about choices and chances...the choices you make affect the chances that you have...That said, I thought that the author did an exceptional job of taking us on a first hand tour of what is really going on in the world just outside of our windows. None of us, I'm sure, is all that interested in doing the same though many criticize. If nothing else, it will certainly make you think about the many things that you take for granted and more important the services that are desperately needed, yet dwindling every day. What happened to the social services that were once in abundance? What about the problems resulting directly from illiteracy, mental disease, drug abuse, physical abuse? While many of the people who live through the aforementioned are reaping the benefits of their own choices, there are some who are innocent victims and they are the children. Children will often repeat the same behavior they see. But then again, do I want to see my tax dollars pay for these services? I know that's what you're thinking; in many ways so am I.The aforementioned social services are ever important to the survival of those that are disenfranchised (not by choice and many by their actions). Or perhaps their going away by design. Perhaps this is way to ensure that they have no voice in the decisions that affect us all (read elections).One reviewer stated this and it bears repeating, there are people serving in the Armed Forces who face the same conditions or some close proximity. Having served in the military for eight years I saw families experience these same conditions and in a few instances the same results, impoverished conditions that globally effect the family structure as a whole not to mention the unit or organization they belong to. These are people who are serving this country and are paid pennies, something to think about...Many people didn't like the authors sometimes snide, cynical remarks, but I think this made the book easier to read and in many ways palatable for those who know they would feel the same indignation, given a similar set of circumstances. Where there is laughter there is hope.I believe that this book and a few others like it should be required reading for junior high school through college students. Often, people need be reminded of the circumstances facing those less fortunate. If nothing else, it would aid in becoming more compassionate but also give a preview of life ahead to people who are considering the less than mainstream course of life.Still torn, but, Worth the read!
4	1091318400	I can agree with the reviewer below only on the point that Ehrenreich got to the meat and bones of her argument in the &quot;Evaluation&quot; chapter. Other than that, let's see that person do what she did.The only major gripe I have is that Barbara decided to use her car to get around. I think to get her point across more (not only to the audience but to herself) she should have switched to public transportation, since many members of the working class cannot afford their own vehicle.Barbara is 100% correct when she says it's because of the low-wage jobs that the working poor work that the middle class and especially the upper class are able to enjoy low prices at Wal-Mart, a quick &quot;meal&quot; at a fast food joint, amongst other things.The greatest injustice (and it's one that I've faced a few times in my search for entry-level clerical jobs) is drug testing. What I don't understand is how there's justification for drug-testing on someone wanting a $6 or $7 an hour job that means nothing to no one in the long run yet there's no drug testing for high level executives whose decisions affect the entire company. Let's see a high level executive in his three piece suit or her &quot;power suit&quot; have to strip nearly naked in front of a stranger and urinate into a plastic cup. Guarantee that's the day these mindless drug tests cease. (Actually, every executive should be drug tested and it should be a requirement that every politican be drug tested before entering office and randomly tested while in office.)After reading this book, I do need to better myself. The figures she was mentioning in her book as being working poor are the same ones I made when I first got out of high school and I don't make that much above that today. (Something's gotta change.)One thing she forgot to mention was how members of Congress (and city councils across the nation) continue to vote themselves incredible &quot;cost of living&quot; salary hikes every few years but fail to do that for the working class.&quot;We can hardly pride ourselves on being the world's preeminent democracy, after all, if large numbers of citizens spend half their waking hours in what amounts, in plain terms, to a dictatorship.&quot; (page 210)Couldn't have said it any better myself.
1	1091059200	It takes the author almost 200 pages to arrive at the conclusion that one cannot get by making only minimum wage.  Thank you Mrs. Einstein.  In fact, the only time she talks about anything resembling is in the evaluation section- that the system is flawed- the proleteriat is oppressed by the bourgeoisie, and that through the sacrifices of the poor, are the middle and rich able to live their lives cheaply.  Ehrenreich's credibilty is hurt by the fact that she smoked pot while she was 'undercover'- well maybe she might have saved some more money is she hadn't blown it on drugs.  All in all, a waste of time, read Marx instead.
4	1090800000	How can a book on poverty be so entertaining?  Though mostly sobering, I found myself laughing at points in this book.  It is written in an interesting and, at times, humorous way.  I learned alot from this book and would recommend it to anyone who wants to broaden their understanding of the working poor in America. I happen to go to Wal-Mart today and found myself smiling and trying to be pleasant with every employee I saw.  I made a special effort to put everything I looked at back in its proper place.Although, I appreciate the efforts of the author to understand the plight of those in our country struggling to get by on $6-$8/hour, I don't think the experiences of the author can even begin to compare to the real dispair and lack of hope that these people face.  Unlike the author, they don't have a great job waiting for them on the horizon.
1	1090540800	This book is so skewed it makes me want to throw up. The author is a communist with an agenda that is straight out of a science fiction novel. Can't pay the high rent? Try getting a roommate genius? She lives three places for three months and can't make it? Just starting out on your own the first month is always the hardest, if she would have toughed it out maybe she could have found a better job, ooops that would have meant she had to pass a urine test, I apologize that the US aint Amsterdam lady, but employers should have the right to know if they're hiring a crack addict.
4	1090195200	This case study in, as the subtitle says &quot;(Not) Getting by in America&quot; was in many ways surprising. I thought I had a pretty good handle on the fact that there are people in desperate straits out there, that being in desperate straights is awful, and that it would be better if no one had to do it. But some of the problems that are described in this book were things I had never even thought of. One of her main contentions is that many of the working poor are borderline homeless, living, ironically, in expensive motels because they can never get far enough ahead to save the deposit for a real apartment. The lack of medical care and desperate penny-pinching wasn't surprising, but what struck me was that the author, daughter of a union organizer and left wing journalist, was consistently surprised at the importance that her co-workers placed on the jobs they were doing, quite apart from the monetary rewards or managerial incentives.This struck me as especially tragic, because it just reinforces the fact that most people take satisfaction in doing something well, and it's obvious from the lives these people lead that they aren't in the habit of shirking work. Shouldn't hard, quality work bring you a life with the basics we should all have? A thought provoking, if not especially surprising book.
5	1090022400	I read this book 3 years ago, and I'm  STILL experiencing recall and flashbacks to some of its passages.  For example: I might be doing nothing much in particular, as I set myself down to dinner at a family style restaurant...and WHAP!!!  I will recall a passage from "Nickled and Dimed" concerning the not very pretty or easy plight of many waitresses and cooks who work at such establishments. And "Nickled and Dimed" does it all with a sense of humour, to boot!Very thought provoking and enlightening for anyone who wants a better understanding of the working poor and the flaws in our socio-economic system."Nickled and  Dimed" should be required reading for every politician and social worker in the United States.
4	1089763200	This book represents a rather unique and personal social experiment in which the author works slave-labor jobs at atrociously low wages over the course of a few months in three separate demographics (key West, Minneapolis and Portland, ME). Mrs. Ehrenreich then does her best to survive on her own with rent, food, etc. The fact that the author BARELY gets by, despite the fact she has a car and no children to support (unlike most working poor) is testimony to dark side of raw capitalism.This book is very funny and at times eye-opening, especially her take on the demeaning, soul ravaging domestic cleaner industry in her stint at the &quot;Merry Maids&quot; and her supervisor Ted's patriarchal idiocy. Her work as a &quot;nutritional specialist&quot; (i.e. food server) at a nursing home in Minneapolis occupied by the elderly who live &quot;foggy half-lives&quot; there and throw food at her was nothing short of hilarious, if a little tragic.Mrs. Ehrenreich does have some compassion for her slower, less educated coworkers, however just a little of her upper crust snobbery towards them seeps through the pages at times, which would be my only criticism of her work. Overall, however, I was impressed how much this book gave me a new compassion for the working poor and those unfortunate enough to be forced into a minimum wage job they hate by seeing the world from their perspective. Maybe, just maybe, this book will gift me with just a little more patience the next time they screw me at the drive-thru.
3	1089417600	I read this book for what it was.  A yuppie going into the &quot;lower wage class&quot; to learn what life is like. Seems like a plot for a low grade movie. It does reveal how many americans are living today regardless of how it was done.  It's not as indepth as I would like, but it was informative.  It exposed the desperation that a lot of people feel, just trying to keep their jobs, and wondering if they can afford the motel rent and food in the same week.  It gives you a glimpse of an injured worker with no insurance, who does not speak up, even though she was hurt on the job, because she can't afford to miss work, and she doesn't want to be let go because she got hurt. I do have a question. Where did the marijuana come from?  In the book the author is frantically trying to find a store that sells something that will &quot;cleanse&quot; her.  She has to take a pee test and will flunk it otherwise.  Then she complains about the cost.  She never mentions where the pot came from, who she smoked it with, or how much that cost.  At that point it made me doubt that she was really seious about her project, and it pissed me off.  I guess for a best seller and speaking contracts, you have to edit out anything that would make you look less than the &quot;yuppie&quot; you are.
5	1089331200	I am a 23 yr old girl trying to work and make her why in this world of crappy jobs and disappointing opportunities. I found myself wanting to stand up and shout &quot;AMEN SISTER!!!&quot; several times during the reading of this book. One of Barbara's main points is that even though she's got a PHD, and is highly educated, she oftentimes still finds herself as &quot;unskilled&quot; as the day she graduated high school; that low-wage work is just as challenging and trying as any &quot;skilled&quot; job. Barbara isn't trying to make herself out to be some hero or noble heart; she's simply asking the question: &quot;Is this (working yourself bone-tired everyday, sacrificing an insane amount of money on rent for below-standard quarters) any way to LIVE?????  And she freely admits she didn't go as far or as low as she could've. For example, she has no young children she has to take care of or spend child care on.For those of us that live the low-wage life everyday, to those who are better off, this is a book EVERYONE needs to read. Period.
5	1089331200	This work provides an accurate look into the lives of the working poor in America.  It highlights the individual's struggles at working a 6 or 7 dollar an hour job.  The point simply being this money is not enough.Barbara Ehrenreich takes the reader through the trials of trying to get by in different areas of the country, the locations being in Key West, Portland and Minneapolis. She also works a wide variety of jobs during her stays, from nursing home worker to Wal-Mart employee.  The beauty of the book though is not so much her specific struggles but finding out problems her coworkers have to deal with which seem far greater.  Seeing the she barely makes it by without children and transportation problems to figure out one wonders how someone with these problems gets by.After experiencing the ways of the working poor, Ehrenreich summarizes the issues causing this crisis in the U.S. One is both given the view into the lives of the working poor and the economic reasons behind these problems.  This book is a good read for anyone that has ever thought about the person serving them at a fast food restaurant or taking their reject clothes as they leave a dressing room.  Actually, this book is an even better idea for someone to read that has never thought of these things.
5	1088899200	For a middle class, white, full-time employed, suburban male this book was a shocking and informing journey into the life of the working poor.  No matter what stage in life - you must read this book. Ehrenreich steps into the world of the working poor and exposes their lifestyle in an honest way.  For years I have held shallow, ignorant views of these people, and after reading her text am embarrassed at how little I knew, how fortunate I am, and now appreciate those how navigate the difficult cycle of working at minimum wage.  You will laugh at parts, and be poked in others.  Pick this book up today!
5	1088380800	Barbara Ehrenreich is one of those writers around whom people seem to polarize .  As a long-time liberal activist, she attracts plaudits from those who agree with her politically and potshots from those who don't.  It's a shame because she has something very important to say in this book.  Too bad so many people are busy criticizing her elitist attitude and ignoring what she really has to say--namely that in this country of vast wealth, many people end up at the bottom barely making it and  are treated  shabbily while doing it.The basis of Ehrenreich's book is a journalistic experiment to see just how easy it was to get by on wages of $6-7/hour.  In pursuit of this project, she worked (among other jobs) as a waitress in Florida, a housecleaner in Maine, and a Wal-Mart employee in Minnesota.  In every case, &quot;getting by&quot; was a lot harder than it looked, and &quot;getting by&quot; meant a lot less than most people would think.  Ehrenreich describes full time employees who live in cars or motels because they don't have enough money for a security deposit on an apartment, who eat a bag of chips for lunch because that's all they can afford, and who don't have the money for antibiotics and lose their jobs because of missing work.  As she points out, second jobs and the help of family, friends and even outside agencies are vital for workers at this level of the economy.  Although most of the book consists of Ehrenreich's own experiences and anecdotes about her fellow employees, she backs these up with statistics in footnotes.  Her final chapter is an overview of the problems of the working poor from a more analytic perspectiveSome of the criticism leveled against this book have merit.  At times, Ehrenreich sounds a little snide and her privileged position shows through.  On the other hand,  much of what she says is tongue-in-cheek.  She's trying to describe not only her own experience as a low income worker, but also to make the reader feel what the working poor go through. The workers Ehrenreich describes  are at the very bottom and are given no respect by either their employers or  those for whom they provide services.  It's been said that the most stressful jobs are those in which workers have no control over what they do, how they do it, or when they do it.  The lack of autonomy--up to and including the right to use a  restroom when necessary--experienced by Ehrenreich and her fellow workers make these jobs as stressful as any.  For some of the working poor, this is a temporary situation.  For too many others, it's not.  Ehrenreich has written an important book, and whether you like her politics or not, the working poor deserve better treatment than they're getting.
4	1088035200	I thought this was a very good book written by a brave author. I'm a laid off Electrical Engineer with 3 kids and no health insurance. So the realities of this book are coming closer to home every day. I felt like this book provided a preatty good look at the lives of the working poor. However I really would have liked to know more about the people Barbara Ehrenreich worked with. She could have included interviews with some these people as well as others. I would have liked to see hard data on each of the cities she worked in. For example, what percentage of the jobs pay below $10/hr or what is the minimum livable wage. I also thought she was overly harsh with certain types of characters she encountered. I would really like to see more written about this subject because it has become even more relevant. This book was written during the economic boom when jobs were plentiful. Now the ranks of the working poor have grown to include displaced professionals. The large supply of desperate workers has made it much easier for employers to push wages even lower. In addition, the problem of finding affordable housing and health insurance is getting worse all the time. There needs to be more discussion on this subject. We need to talk about solutions to this problem because it is effecting more and more people.
3	1087084800	As an anecdotal piece, it's an interesting read but her experiences don't have enough data points to draw any formitive conclusions. I'm slightly ticked at her backhanded comments about what it must be like to work and live in California. I'm a Caucasian native born Californian who has worked more minimum wage jobs when I was younger than she did for her book. Not all the low paying jobs are taken up by latinos or people who speak accented English. The minimum wage scale runs the full gammut of folks in California.OK -- enough about my California rant. Of the three states she visited (and come on, 3 of out 50 is hardly a good sample size to draw conclusions about all of the United States), I enjoyed the Maine chapter best. It didn't get hung up on her preconceived notions of race/ethnicity and instead focused more on the money issues that anyone working minimum wage has to face.The best part of the book though, has to be the footnotes and bibliography. I think I've found titles to a good half dozen or so books that I would like to read as follow up to this book.I think this book would have been stronger if she had backed up her own experience with interviews from the people she worked with or even interviews with people in similar positions. She could have had short half page to maybe 2 page max. vinettes of other people's stories ala the Chicken Soup series to back up her experiences -- or even counter point them. One story from each state would have flushed out the book nicely.
5	1086912000	The other reviewers of this insightful and funny book speak as if they are aliens from the other America.  Of course, this demonstrates the book's point(s).The great virtue of the book is that Ehrenreich doesn't write about her fellow crap wage workers as anything other than fellow human beings.  Too bad so many see the working poor as a people apart.I've experienced a fall of social class recently, and am working at Target for the princely sum of 6.50 an hour, plus overnight bonus. It's been a year that sucks.Every night is harder to take, and Ehrenreich captures that feeling of dismal destiny.  The people she reports on are on target, in my experience.To the other reviewers and potential readers, I say: Listen to Ehrenreich, and listen to the low wage people who serve your shopping life.  They know you in a way you don't know yourself.There's much to learn from them and this book.
5	1086825600	I found this book especially interesting because my city recently passed a &quot;living wage&quot; ordinance (and local business groups are, predictably, squawking).  To those reviewers who sneer that Ehrenreich's research is biased because &quot;nobody can live on $7 an hour in Key West,&quot; may I point out that tourist areas attract unskilled workers precisely because they provide thousands of low-wage service jobs;  but if you can't afford a car on your salary, and your other transportation options are limited, you're constrained to live near your job and are likely to end up sharing a motel room with 4 other people.  Or there's the all-too-common dilemma that blue-collar workers who have lived and worked in the same town for generations find themselves priced out of the real estate market when the area becomes a &quot;destination.&quot;  Tourist areas are a hotbed of underpaid, exploited workers, and thus, I think, a good subject for a study of the &quot;working poor.&quot;I was especially struck by her accounts of how low-wage workers are systematically humiliated, demeaned, and mistreated.  She opines that this is a deliberate strategy to keep them down, and points out that workers are often so demoralized by this treatment that they come to believe that they don't &quot;deserve&quot; any better.  I doubt that this is solely the fault of the companies that employ these workers -- our society and our educational system label people as &quot;winners&quot; and &quot;losers&quot; from an early age -- but that doesn't make it any less wrong for businesses to exploit those beliefs.A related point:  the American myth (which Ehrenreich was brought up to believe too) is that hard work is the key to success, and that people who aren't successful have only themselves to blame because they haven't worked hard enough.  But the book is full of examples of people who work incredibly hard for long hours at underpaid, undervalued jobs, even when they're ill or in pain -- and, because they aren't provided with (or can't afford) adequate medical insurance, they end up permanently damaging their health.In general, I felt that this was a thought-provoking book that points out the flaws in our smug American myths about work and raises some important social issues, and I'm glad that it's still being widely read and argued over.
4	1086739200	Barbara Ehrenreich does a fairly good job in this book of mapping out the problems that the lower class people go through everyday.  I admire her for stepping out of her wealth to experience the other side, but she could have done a little better.  Turning down all the help from the church and the government was not smart on her part and very unrealistic for the real lower class.  She was lucky that she made it through.  I felt close to the author in some ways while reading this because I know how it is in the real world but I am not undercover.  It was an enjoyable read and I would recommend it to almost anyone who plans on being on their own.
4	1086566400	Nickel and Dimed is a good book. It really explains to you what the life of a working class person is. I'm 15, so at times, the book was a bit boring, but I know it was written for older people.One of the main strengths of the book was the writing style Barbara Enheric (I know that's the wrong name) is great at writing simply so you don't have to do that thinking type of reading. I hate that. So many Authors today try to write like their sooooooo eduacted, but forget that there are people reading it. No one wants to hurt their head while reading a book for leisure. This author really  knows that.Also, I like how the author didn't only write about while being at work, but wrote about the life, the experiences that you have living on minimum wage, trying to find a cheap place to live. It's a good book, read it.
1	1086566400	Good lord, had this wealthy chick ever walked two paces outside of her cash-insulated happy land before she penned this naive insult?  Going slumming is one thing, but to go slumming in a resort town is surreal and shows the utter ignorance, insensitivity and total cultural isolation of the author.  Can't make it on seven bucks an hour in Key West?  No kidding, it's one the most expensive tourist resorts in the country- maybe the world.  I bet you'd have a tough time getting by on minimum wage in Aspen, Monte Carlo and the French Riviera  too.  The author only knows places like that--wealthy, comfortable, fashionable places.  The closest she got to an actual city was Minneapolis and even that is an economically thriving liberal exception to most urban areas. And don't give me that Portland guff, that's essentially a weekend retreat for Manhattanites.  Did she visit Dalhart Texas?  Fort Dodge Iowa?  Macomb Illinois?  Lexington Nebraska?  Akron Ohio?  Of course not.  She's never heard of thoses places.  They don't register on the fashionable &quot;communities&quot; (that's what yuppies call towns now) to live in sheet. The only audience she's speaking to are people like herself:  The rich. And while I'm sure her wealthy liberal friends may shed a tear when they discover that not everyone drives a Lexus, I'm just as sure that's as far as it will go.  They've read the book.  They're outraged. The end.Get a job, Barb.
1	1086566400	Good lord, had this wealthy chick ever walked two paces outside of her cash-insulated happy land before she penned this naive insult?  Going slumming is one thing, but to go slumming in a resort town is surreal and shows the utter ignorance, insensitivity and total cultural isolation of the author.  Can't make it on seven bucks an hour in Key West?  No kidding, it's one the most expensive tourist resorts in the country- maybe the world.  I bet you'd have a tough time getting by on minimum wage in Aspen, Monte Carlo and the French Riviera  too.  The author only knows places like that--wealthy, comfortable, fashionable places.  The closest she got to an actual city was Minneapolis and even that is an economically thriving liberal exception to most urban areas. And don't give me that Portland guff, that's essentially a weekend retreat for Manhattanites.  Did she visit Dalhart Texas?  Fort Dodge Iowa?  Macomb Illinois?  Lexington Nebraska?  Akron Ohio?  Of course not.  She's never heard of thoses places.  They don't register on the fashionable &quot;communities&quot; (that's what yuppies call towns now) to live in sheet. The only audience she's speaking to are people like herself:  The rich. And while I'm sure her wealthy liberal friends may shed a tear when they discover that not everyone drives a Lexus, I'm just as sure that's as far as it will go.  They've read the book.  They're outraged. The end.Get a job, Barb.
5	1086307200	Barbara Ehrenreich, in her book Nickel and Dimed, strives to give us a glimpse of America's working poor; those people in our society who are living merely to make a living, sometimes working two jobs just trying to provide themselves with a roof over their and their families heads and a decent meal. Her experiments in three different communities in three different areas of the country are unique and heartbreakingly honest.Setting up some ground rules early in the book, Ehrenreich tries to follow them as closely as possible. In each of her situations, she honestly tries to make a living by working jobs that are mostly available to America's poor; waitressing in Florida, a maid in Maine, and a &quot;Wal-Martian&quot; in Minnesota.  Each story she spins about each city is compelling and honest. Ehrenreich quickly discovers how brutal our country can be towards the poor, and one begins to understand their feelings of disenfranchisement very quickly.Once more, she punctuates each of her tales by telling the stories of others she has met. While others may discount her experiences as inauthentic, one cannot dismiss the experiences of those working poor she encounters; people who despite having two jobs still must live in their cars, or with many others in small apartments.Ehrenreich has written a very threatening book, for it tampers with the way that many of us choose to see America. Ehrenreich's ultimate challenge to us is to open our eyes to all segments of our society, so that we may begin to realize that comments like &quot;why don't they just get a job&quot; doesn't roll off our tongues as easily as it does. So that the next time we feel the need to treat waitresses, housecleaners, or store employees as servant, we may think twice. So that we may truly become a &quot;more perfect Union&quot;, as was our forefathers challenge to us today. Thanks Barbara, for opening our eyes with this important, important book.
1	1085961600	An upperly bound liberal decides to see how the other half lives.  She does this by living in three different cities for three months.  Of course, she does this without sticking around, feeling this gives her a great and wonderful insight into the plight of the working poor.I wonder what would have happened if she had done things like getting a roommate, asking for community help, or even set her aim a little higher.  For example, why didn't she take her experience at a diner and gone to a place where the tips were better?  Or stick around and find out what happened after a month on the job, when she made friends with the customers and knew people?  How would the experience been different if she hadn't gone to places known for their high cost of living?I currently live the life of the working poor and found very little in common with this woman.  Of course, I'm getting education and plan to pull myself up.
4	1085788800	Being a low-wage worker myself, I find that this book is a pleasure to read; reading being one of the few luxuries I make a point of affording. I think that, from an educated point of view, it's very easy to dismiss this book as a biased piece based on the socially sensitive rantings of a comfortable middle class white woman. However, I think that makes it more accessible to the target audience. You know who you are. Trying to truly comprehend starving to pay your Visa bill so that you can use it to try to pay your rent in your dive is a little bit beyond most 'literate' people... It's refreshing to see a book that can attract so much attention to the people that peddle your clothes, wipe your floors, and feed you dinner, in many cases doing all of the above. I don't necessarily feel that it's an -accurate- description of my life, but at the same time, at least someone who has the ability to publish their book is taking the time to shine some light on the lives of us 'regular janes'. It's an excellent work of sensation, and I can appreciate it for what it is...
3	1085011200	I could not put this book down, reading it one evening.  While reading, I was entertained, enlightened, horrified, and educated.  After having finished the book, though, I was a little disappointed.  My expectation going in (and perhaps this was my mistake) was that I would get a glimpse into the lives of the working poor.  In hindsight, I think the biggest glimpse I got was into Barbara Ehrenreich's charmed life.  The way she carries on about her short-term travails makes the distinct impression that she is far more the problem than the solution.  Her social circle appears to be the detached and insulated elite that needs the sweat of the working class in order to allow them the leisure to smoke weed and complain about the government's labor policies.  This book would have been well-served if it had focused more on the stories of her co-workers, and less on the complaints of an aging hipster trying to deal with a fresh foray into physical labor.On the plus side, I add this book to the growing pile of data that I'm archiving in case I'm ever tempted to shop at Wal-Mart.  Furthermore, her final chapter provides some very clear insights, possibly developed after her experiences!  I was particularly fascinated by the `suspension' of the law of supply and demand, namely that tight labor markets don't necessarily translate into higher wages.  The list of causes she offers are open to debate, but it is an issue that deserves our careful attention.
5	1084838400	Ehrenreich mocks the overprivileged with a realistic perspective.  The five stars go for the whole book.It's personal, well-written, and even entertaining and humorous, giving an articulate voice to people who don't normally have the writing skills.  Anyone who's not brainwashed into hatred of the lower classes by the ideologues on Fox News or Hate Radio will enjoy this book.
4	1084233600	Nickel and DimedBarbara EnrenreichBy : Alexandria Kebede.Barbra had a Ph.D. She had a nice house, and a stable home. Looking out on everything she took for granted was going to be a little more difficult then what she had planned. Nickel and dime is a novel illustrating the hardships and tragedies of a low-income jobs. When you order a Seizer Salad with your friends, you might never think to look into the life of the waiter or waitress delivering the lettuce. Barbra did this, will that would be an understatement Barbra lived this.She dropped everything she had down to every dime, and started a life as a poor citizen. Starting on a wanted aid in the newspaper seems pretty easy at a first glance. As an observer you would think that Barbra had this all planned out. She would work; make seven or six dollars an hour. Pay for an apartment and spend her long hours observing the natural life of a waitress. Barbra found herself soon in a rat race. Trying to battle food and bills at the same time.Actually bills is not correct. She couldn't afford bills, so she stayed in a motel. This as you'll learn in the book is actually a luxury for her associates. Some people that she spoke of couldn't even afford to live in a motel. They had to live in the back of the building they worked in, or share a motel with three other associates. Barbra luckily could afford to stay in her own motel (more worse off than motel six) and have at least one meal a night.Meals, that would probably be the hardest thing to deal with. Could you imagine living days were your dinner consists of a heated burrito from 7/11. She says that looking out on her former grocery store was torture; something should toke for granite was a luxury she would have never imagined.There were a lot of astonishing facts in the book as well. For example, did you know that thirty percent of the homeless are actually juggling jobs. And that bathroom breaks are actually a bonus. And which really surprised me personally is that waiter's tips get deducted from the hourly pay. On top of that the waiters (which is a law if you want to make it through the day smooth and easy) split their tips with the cooks, because if they don't the cooks will make life harder for the waitress. Working in a restraints is a cycle of people that all have to work together to make sure the place gets ran correctly. But the mangers don't understand that, and they treat their employees like garbage. Hounding them on their five minute breaks. Not even giving them simple sit down time when there isn't anyone one in the restraint.Working in a restraint was hard for Barbra she said it was one of that hardest things she's done. Until taking orders and keeping tabs on tables turned into a mechanical action. Were everything she did wasn't thought out it skipped her trail of thought and turned into an instinct. She was hollow minded half of the time working like a robot.  Kind of like the people at the airports who type like drill sergeants.Barbra couldn't take it anymore and she simply walked out on the job. Right in the middle of someone's order. She had too much going on, and so many people calling her name that she threw down her pad and walked out. Her next job was not as hectic but it was laborious.She worked as a house cleaner. The one thing that I took with me in this chapter was her friends story. She was running to the van with a bucket so they could make it to the next house they had to clean when she fell and cried out in excruciating pain. Barbra told her she had to go to the doctors but she refused. When she refused I didn't know why I thought she would have gone to the doctors right off the bat. She didn't because the manager wouldn't pay her for the rest of the day and her husband would probably beat her. This cycle she fell into was hard to get out of.  How can you hope for a better job when you can't even get family support. If she quit her job and her husband how is she going to eat. And even worse she would have to give up her children.When I use to look at Oprah or Ricki Lake, and see women cry about the way their husbands beat them I would change the channel in disgust. I didn't like to see the ignorance of women who were weak enough to sit in a house and take the violence. Now that I understand why its so difficult to get out of a job when your stuck in it I have more respect for waiters cleaner and cashers. The worse part about this book is having it come to an end and know that nothing has truly changed.
2	1084147200	Ehrenreich mocks the underprivileged with her unrealistic perspective.  The two stars go to the last chapter.
5	1083369600	Ehrenreich placed herself in the maw of desperation, stared into the throat of the beast, took in a lungful of the mephitic halitosis of the injustice, and came back with this searing narrative to wake this one reader UP.I think Ehrenreich is genuinely concerned about the future of the people who are getting crushed daily under the wheel of inequity in the land of plenty.But the book is not about being "up close and personal" with the people she encounters along the way but not because the people are not important but because that sort of info is NOT relevant to the story she wants to tell.Her aim in this book is to show what ANYBODY (you and me but for the...) would have to go through IF placed in the sort of circumstances in which the people she is writing about find themselves.Ehrenreich's writing style? It's loose, fast, off the cuff, not to say slangy. She uses certain words that are probably not really part of most people's vocabulary, and as far as I can see, that really is about the only way she indulges herself in this book.The book comes off feeling like a letter that an educated person would write to her (educated) friends.But then, is it not the members of the so-called "educated class" with with their massive expendable income and social influence who need to see the picture that Ehrenreich is presenting here and maybe rethink about how it is that they are sustained in all their comforts and privileges?Subjectivity in the form of anger and compasssion pervades the writing throughout. But it is also, by turns, witty, sassy, cheeky, humorous (no, HILARIOUS), tough, and, yes, even sarcastic when called for --- about the creepy Orwellian Double-Speak and euphemisms that corporations (such as Walmart)use (much like the military) to lull their employees into abject submission by referring to them as "associates" and tooting slogans like "respect the individual."Ehrenreich did not choose to live permanently among the working poor (would you?), and she mentions a few times that she has a Phd. But she is not bragging. The author tries to contextualize what she sees as the mental divide between the haves and the have-nots, and how it operates, even without any malice on the part of those who are well-off.For example, she mentions that her daughter, ROSA, is attending Harvard. Sounds snooty? Guess again: Rosa goes to the home of a wealthy classmate whose father cavalierly assumes that Ehrenreich must have named her daughter after her favorite MAID. She did not.The author states as a matter of fact (like her having a PhD) that she does her own cleaning. She clearly states that she has always found the idea of hiring people to do one's own cleaning morally reprehensible.Ehrenreich's mention of her own PhD and her daughter going to Harvard apparently annoys some people to the point where they cannot hear the rest of the story or skew it ----which is that those at the highest income brackets are (still) amazingly insensitive, not to say inhumane.Ehrenreich's musing about the stressed-out rich spending thousands of dollars at some Buddhist retreat (maybe) to learn about compassion and humility -- while maids clean their houses during their absence -- was funny in a totally unfunny way.She walked the walk -- the walk nobody with an income big enough to own a pc with an internet hookup to read this review would ever voluntarily take.I, for one, am deeply indebted to Barbara for her honest account of what she witnessed among those we see everyday without seeing -- as the struggling poor for the most part do their dignified darndest to NOT stand out.The book has caused me think about my life and the true meaning of compassion more graphically than all the Dalai Lama books put together.Any book that can change one's complacent view about the world is gold. For me, this book was platinum.
5	1083369600	I respectfully but strongly disagree with those reviewers who imply that the author was some cynical opportunist for writing this book --- riding on the back of the poor, as it were, and then milking the lecture circuit thereafter.Given her resume, I think Ehrenreich was pretty well-off to begin with, and presumably would have continued to be so with or without writing this book. I really, really doubt that she wrote the book so she could buy a(nother) condo in Aspen.If you read the book without attributing some imaginary callous cynicism on the part of the author's so-called "motive," I think you will see that Ehrenreich is genuinely concerned about the future of the people who are simply NOT getting by no matter how hard they work.This book, short and punchy, gives one accurate-enough a picture of what it is like to be too over-worked to stop and figure out how to fend for oneself.Must one necessarily fall into an open manhole, break a bone, and permanently wallow in the sewage in order to to claim the right to speak on behalf of those who did fall in and are still trapped down there?Really, to demand the author's head on a platter for taking breaks between assignments or using her credit card to stay afloat is just too much bile and venom.As far as I am concerned, the author walked the walk and shed light enough on the subject for me to do things differently from now on. And that's enough for me to praise this book.
1	1083283200	Great idea for a book. Poor execution and shabby insights by the author. The only insight is that cleaning services are not so clean. I guess this insight pays for the book, but otherwise a waste of time....and frustrating read.Try it yourself, but don't buy it..it's a waste of money.Donate the several dollars to charity...a much better investment in humanity.
3	1083110400	Nickel and Dimed, whatever its shortcomings, is still a book, ideally, everyone should read. It would make excellent course reading, anywhere from high school to college. There is simply too little discussion of poverty in this country to pass up any opportunity at all to learn something about it.What makes Nickel and Dimed so readable is that it just is: apart from the voyeuristic aspect of following Ehrenreich on her bumbling course through the majority's everyday life, there is also her prose style, which, even given her background, is still surprisingly narrative and descriptive, often witty and funny. Although initially troubled by a lack of insight into the experiences she narrates, I was ultimately convinced that the structure she chose-three narrative sections on each of the minimum-wage jobs she holds and a final analytical section on the whole experience-serves her well. It makes the three narrative sections almost novelistic, and allows the reader to draw her or his own conclusions about what she experiences.Apart from the extreme readability of the book (for nonfiction) and the obvious compelling nature of the subject matter, however, praise should be distributed carefully. Reading as someone who grew up belonging to the class of workers Ehrenreich treats with the usual ethnographic detachment (sometimes, yes, condescension), I often found myself angry at her for missing this or assuming that. Nevertheless, in criticizing her efforts I think it's important to remember to account for the difficulty of the subject. Precisely because there is such a dearth of information on poverty (and because of the concomitant anger this silence breeds), there is a strong tendency to blame Ehrenreich for not saying everything that needs to be said about the poor. Although she could have done more to indicate that her work is just a beginning, one can't really blame her for setting parameters to her project. Apparently, her main concern, although her project could have addressed many others, is to dispel the myth that those who are poor and/or on welfare aren't working full time to try to support themselves, and the related myth that the homeless are also always unemployed. She also seems intent on testing welfare reform and attacking economists for the arbitrary and outdated ways in which they measure poverty. Along the way, she also manages to uncover what seems like the most desperate truth of the book, the overwhelming affordable housing shortage. Don't these seem like enough goals for one short book?Inevitably, such a project-essentially one of posing, passing, or otherwise slumming-is riddled with difficulties. For me, one of the most frustrating aspects of the book is the Key West section, or really what happens after it. Working alongside of Haitians, African Americans, and a multitude of other ethnic and racial minorities common to Key West, Ehrenreich is stingy with her analysis of this essential component of the working poor in America. True, how could she, as a white, American woman, possibly have explored life as a low-wage worker and a minority. But certainly fleeing from the multiculturalism of Key West to the oppressive whiteness of Maine in an effort to avoid the question of race and ethnicity altogether cannot possibly be the best or only answer to this conundrum. Attempting to address poverty while sidestepping race and ethnicity in this country is like trying to write a history of Germany without the Jews.Furthermore, the way the project gets dreamed up-a spur of the moment conversation-can hardly account for the little planning that seems to have gone into the endeavor. Perhaps Ehrenreich's goal was to enter the experiment with as much of a blank slate as possible, some skewed notion of objectivity. But she sabotages her project by allowing herself a multitude of start-up perks that the average low-wage worker wouldn't have access to, like start-up money and an emergency fund (not to mention a car!). On the other hand, Ehrenreich is open about her shortcomings, admitting, for example, the stupidity of spending $30 on a pair of slacks while earning only $7 an hour. Her decision, based on the middle-class assumption that these pants would last better than cheaper ones, is ridiculous to the point of being endearing. These utter lapses of perceptive judgment on someone whose career is social commentary are also illuminating, helpful in realizing how utterly alien the poor mindset can be to someone who is outside it. If you'll allow me a third hand, however, the lapses are also surprising because of the very same reason. If you're looking for insight, Ehrenreich has none. She seems confused and upset about her experience, and unable to make much sense of it. The failure of what is nationally recognized as a perceptive mind to fathom the depths of poverty-and what that means for us as a classed society-is all the insight you'll get.There are other shortcomings too, no doubt also related to Ehrenreich's barely contained horror at what her flippant little project amounted to. For example, although she reveals her identity to some of her coworkers after the experiment is over, she never, apparently, discusses her experience with them. This is a gross flaw, seeing that it perpetuates discourse about the poor from "experts" without asking the poor themselves about their lives. Such a wasted opportunity! What were their educational experiences? Why have they been limited to low-wage work? What are their dreams? How would they improve their lives? You won't hear it from them.Despite all these frustrations, the book is, to reiterate, both readable and important. If anything, it is a marvelous discussion-starter. On a personal level, it can make you question your economic status. What does it depend on? Who didn't get a two-dollar raise, who's living in her van and working over forty hours a week, so that you could get your DVD player so cheap? Like it or hate it, this book will make you think.
2	1082937600	Nickel and Dimed was a big disappointment. The shame of this book is that the idea had so much potential for an interesting, informative and moving book. I wanted to like it, but Ehrenreich disappointed me, almost from the first chapter.What I had hoped for was a first-hand, unbiased view of what it is like to live today as an unskilled American worker.  Unfortunately, Ehrenreich appeared to have an agenda from the outset.  To be completely honest, I too had an agenda when I bought the book.  I expected to gain further support for my view that the American workplace today is a difficult place, unlivable for all but the most priviliged.  So what's my beef with Ehrenreich's book, since that seems to be its theme?Firstly, there is a an almost complete lack of factual support for the majority of the author's conclusions.  The lines between her opinions and actual facts are blurry at best.  Second, Ehrenreich consistently bemoans employees' problems in the workplace while belittling employers' challenges.  In the real world, it's acknowledged that when an employee takes a job, she is &quot;selling her time and skills&quot; to an employer. In contrast, Ehrenreich spends large sections of her book going on about how ridiculous it is that her employers had opposed her doing personal errands at work, or standing around and chatting with co-workers.  She pokes fun at these employers for calling her behavior &quot;stealing time&quot;.  In my experience, most employees acknowledge that it is cheating their employer if they are being paid to work, and they instead sneak out to do something personal, or hide from the boss to chat with co-workers. By failing to acknowledge even the most valid of her  employers' complaints, Ehrenreich loses credibility with the audience.Done right, this project could have resulted in a book that changed the workplace for low wage workers.  It could have opened the eyes of business decision makers to the plight of their most vulnerable workers, and perhaps have started a dialog for change.  Instead, Ehrenreich sold out.  She disappointed me, and she let down the people whose stories and lives she used to sell books.  What a shame.
1	1082764800	A lousy book by a snobbish, undignified, drug abusing author. I don't remember seeing a book written solely to put down the hard working class. What a phony.
4	1082246400	Whatever you think about Barbara Ehrenreich and her writing style, the fact remains that this is an important book to have in existence. And if this book gets picked up for the Oprah book clubs and what have you, I think, better they should read this than yet another fictional account of five generations in a family with a dark secret.At least this is something real. In the book Ehrenreich experiences life in three different cities in America as a single woman working minimum wage jobs. What she finds is that both single people and families do not make enough in a minimum wage job to live anywhere other than a cheap motel or even their car, truck or van. They do not make enough to eat anything resembling healthy and nourishing food, and they have no means to pay for treatment for the resulting health problems that come from their poor living conditions, lack of nutrition, and strenuous labor.Unfortunately, what the book fails to offer is some sort of a solution. Ehrenreich has tackled a problem which is gargantuan, and solutions are probably not forthcoming. But one of the greatest values of a book like this is to not only point out a problem, but to offer its readers something that they can do in their lives to address this problem. This is, unfortunately, missing in this book.Regardless I think that this book is valuable in that it points out the extremity of the hardship that many people are living through in this country. I don't think people realize exactly how bad it is. When people are having their order taken at the fast food restaurant or being rung up at Wal-Mart, I wonder if they realize that the person who is helping them may be living in their van, or saving up their paychecks to buy just one of the five shirts you're buying now, when it goes on sale. At least if more people realize the severity of the situation among minimum-wage earners, this book has done something of value.
5	1081814400	The author's observation about workers leaving democracy at the their employers' doorsteps is something that I've also observed. I am now more or less retired. However, I worked as a blue collar worker in light industry for about seven years and as a professional in a white collar occupations for about the same length of time.  I was an associate in retail for about four years. I found a four year stint in a job in academia to be the least democratic. I had resisted reading this book because I've lived a more real version of her experiment and knew that I would probably find some of what she chose to do stupid which I did -- why try to live in areas where affordable rents are rare?  why not try a small non-tourist oriented city? why not look for a roommate?  why buy only one pair of &quot;uniform&quot; pants (two cheap ones for the price she paid for one would have saved laundering time and money). I finally decided to read this book when invited to attend a meeting of a book club which is discussing the book.  Actually, I'm dreading hearing professionals lamenting about how bad the working poor have it when it seems to me that many if not most professionals have it just as bad in regard to lack of democracy in the workplace. For the record, I, as a childless and mostly single woman, did not have troubles of the sort that she did in finding an affordable place to live accept during my first year as a totally self-supporting adult. Overall, I am glad I read this book.  Despite the author's seeming lack of common sense in some areas, she has the unusual ability to describe the psychology and social interactions of the workplace.  To lots of her comments,I wanted to lift up my fist in a resounding &quot;YES.&quot; Another thing that I liked about this book is that it is funny. This mostly because the author has the ability to laugh at herself.
5	1081641600	In NICKEL AND DIMED author Barbara Ehrenreich seeks to dispel the myth that a job is "the ticket out of poverty and the only thing holding back welfare recipients [is] their reluctance to get one" [p.196]. She does this by leaving behind her regular job for a few months, traveling from Florida to Main to Minnesota, and taking the cheapest lodgings available and accepting work as a waitress, hotel maid, house cleaner, nursing home aide, and Wal-Mart saleswoman. In my opinion, she succeeds at her objective. As Ehrenreich discovers, the prevailing minimum wage for such jobs is $7-8 per hour. At this rate, a large percentage of our workforce - those erroneously referred to as "unskilled workers" (as the author points out, there is no such thing, many such jobs take a great deal of training and skill) - lives in poverty.What I found most compelling about Ehrenreich's work was the revelation that such "lowly" jobs do not require any less physical strain or mental concentration than the higher paying jobs. Standing on your feet for eight hours a day in Wal-Mart, lugging around cleaning equipment, serving meals in a diner, can be physically exhausting and, as the author points out, in some cases even physically damaging (and, of course, most of these jobs do not come with health care packages). In addition to this, there is often a pecking order and a psychologically degrading element to such jobs. For example, blue collar workers are screened for drug use at a higher rate than white collar employees. Is it because they abuse drugs more than their higher paid counterparts, or is it because of bigotry, a need to degrade? (...)Reading Ehrenreich's work, I couldn't help but be reminded of something Noam Chomksy says in UNDERSTANDING POWER - that it is a national scandal that the United States of America is the richest and most powerful country in world history, and yet a significant percentage of our population lives at, near, or below the poverty line. This is not the way it should be. As Ehrenreich points out, it is not this way because the low-paid worker is lazy or slovenly, but because the government and corporations are greedy.
3	1081468800	I had high hopes when I qucikly grabbed this book off the shelf. The premise was great: work some menial jobs, get into the heads of those in those jobs and expose the truth!That's not how it played out. This pampered princess of an author used the people she was claiming to help. She reminded me of someone like Michael Milken. Milken, as you may remember, spent 10 years at a country club prison for securities fraud, only to remain worth tens of millions of dollars when he got out. Ehrenreich toughed it out (on and off) for over a year seeing a huge payday when it was all over. This was quite different than the people she toughed it out with while "researching" the book.I gave the book 3 stars because some of the insights she gained while on assignment were interesting, particularly her experience working for Wal-Mart. Unfortunately, knowing that in between assignments, she was going home to recuperate made her seem shallow and uncaring - the opposite effect that she was hoping to have.Ehrenreich would have been a great Marxist, no doubt. Her post-publishing career has proven as much. If she's as saddened by the way the people she spoke of were treated as she'd have us believe, I wonder if she ever went back to try to help them out? I wonder what kind of customer she is while being waited on in a restaurant? Is she understanding when a sales clerk seems incompetant? Somehow I don't think so.Her intentions may have been good, but you know what they say about the road to hell being paved with good intentions, don't you?
4	1080864000	Barbra Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed, was an excellent reality check.  This book helped me open my eyes to a world that I have never known.  Although I found her to be a bit hypocritical.  She went through a rough experience and lived the "poor" life, but in the end went back the living the "rich" life.  I applaud Ehrenreich for the hands-on experience she related back to the reader.
5	1080864000	Every Liberal should have this book! Barbera Ehrenreich shows no mercy in decribing the brutality that the working lower class take in. The reading is easy and strengthened by facts in the footnotes. The working lower class need more rights, and this book shows it.
4	1080864000	After reading Ehrenreich's novel Nickel and Dimed it became so clear to me why some shunn middle America when we see how some people live there. Crumby housing,liquor stores on various corners and poorly dressed people all who most asume are not looking for work and are on welfare. Supprisingly these samepeople who are looking for or already have full time jobs. They are just like you and me (assuming you had the thirteen dollars to buy the book) and are just having to work ten times harder for their money. Ehrenreich not only dipicts the working poor but becomes part of them; those who work all day in search of the amenities that most take for granted. The only reason that I would not give this book a five is the annoying refrences to her prior life in Key West and Her use of language, which was a little overly done considering we are not all english majors, simply people wanting to find out how some get by in the working world.
5	1080864000	This book was a tremendous eye opener, showing a perspective I have never personally experienced, only heard of in, very little detail. Ehrenreich's experience as a member of the working poor class involves the reader, facing them with the distress of trying to maintain a decent and healthy life, eat, maintain shelter, all while working two jobs at minimum wage. It is physically impossible, as well as emotionally impossible to live that sort of life style. What is amazing is that the working poor class works harder then the wealthy in America, yet they get treated the worst and paid the least, which is ridiculous. While the Big Boss sits behind his desk, on his lazy [...] making millions of dollars, ordering people around. Now how does that balance out? Especially when the working poor class can barely afford to live in a rundown house, in the middle of no where, or sometimes even in a motel! This book really makes you want to make a difference in the world, and act upon this never ending issue. I was touched at heart. This book contains moral lessons that will stick with my forever.
3	1080777600	I first became interested in reading Nickel and Dimed when my former Sociology teacher sold this book to my class on how much he liked it and how thoughtful it was. I decided to read it when an opportunity arose. So when I got to kill two birds with one stone when this title came out on his list for a book report assignment in his Economics class, I was more than excited to read this one. Boy, was I disappointed. I felt like the author, Barbara Ehrenreich, was not being fair in her trial &quot;game.&quot; She always had something to fall back on. Unfortunately, the truly poor members of society, actually stuck in a life of low-wage and dead-end jobs, don't. She had plenty more luxuries (and yes, they are considered luxuries in this particular group's mind)than her fellow co-workers, such as a decent working car, health care, eating two or three meals a day, and a temporary place to call home, even if it was a motel every night. She didn't go too much in depth on the job inequalities; to me it sounded like something to expect from a job like waitressing: pushy customers who don't leave enough tip, for example. The most tender and true example of the book was when she was working in Maine for a house cleaning agency, and one of the young teammates, as they were called, survived a typical day on half a bag of chips. I thought that the stories of her past co-workers were more harsh and real than she'd ever experience, no matter how long she played her tricks. The research was impressive, but I didn't come away with any more sympathy for her. These impoverished people that Ehrenreich came in contact with over her three-year long experiment were pathetically deep in the dumps, yet they held their heads high and managed to get by, even in the absolute worst of situations.
3	1080777600	I decided to read this book for my economics class. I thought Barbara Ehrenrich  could have done better, but overall it was at least thought provoking. The whole book was about problems facing working class people in America, and though she adressed the problem she didnt give any kind of thought to what could be done about it. I also was dissapointed when she said she would never let herself go without food or a place to live, I think in putting these limitations on the experence she  never truly got the feelings of fears that people without money might face. However even with these problems the book was well written and at least made me take a closer look at living and working in America.
3	1080777600	Barbara Ehrenreich exposes the dirty truth about the lies told to the American working class. This book shows that the American Dream, the very essenece of what this country was built on is a myth. The hard working and those trying to be frugal are soon realizing that the &quot;Dream&quot; they are trying to achieve is nearly impossible.This book opened my eyes to the horrors the working poor have to face.
5	1080777600	This book was a tremendous eye opener, showing a prespective I have never personally experienced, only heard of in, very little detail. Ehrenreich's experience as a member of the working poor class involves the reader, facing them with the distress of trying to maintain a decent and healthy life, eat, maintain shelter, all while working two jobs at minimum wage. It is physically impossible, as well as emotionally impossible to live that sort of life style. What is amazing is that the working poor class works harder then the wealthy in America, yet they get treated the worst and paid the least, which is ridiculous. While the Big Boss sits behind his desk, on his lazy @$$ making millions of dollars, ordering people around. Now how does that balance out? Especially when the working poor class can barely afford to live in a rundown house, in the middle of no where, or sometimes even in a motel! This book really makes you want to make a difference in the world, and act upon this never ending issue. I was touched at heart. This book contains moral lessons that will stick with me forever.
4	1080691200	Well, what can I say.  I will say things. That's what I will say!  Hah!  Anyway.Nickel and Dimed was good.  When I first started the book I thought  Ehrenreich was a big brat who had no real desire to learn about the dire times our working poor struggle through.Rather than continue to hate the hell of the novelist, I strove on, and feigned indifference.But as time went on, I was engrossed.While I still think that Ehrenreich did not do what a statistician would deem &quot;working poor,&quot;  she did manage to show what the working poor was like, what their conditions were, what pains they had, all from a &quot;reasonably safe&quot; point of view.The result: my anger.  I totally want to make a change now.  I have decided not to shop at disgusting non-union shops or Union-fearing companies.  I tip all minimum wage workers because they deserve my money more than I do.  (I guess it's because I'm a dependent working minimum wage for pocket cash.)These times are rough, and we have Ehrenreich to show, not tell.
3	1080345600	Ehrenreich goes undercover to experience and write about the lower class in America. Everybody knows that to live with the lowest wages is hard. However, nobody thinks about how unskilled people end up and continue to be in such a situation. Barbara Ehrenreich planned to write about unskilled people who have to live with the wages available for them. Trying to hide her education she took the best job available for unskilled people, and she tried to find housing where she could live with the low wage  given to her.She did her experiment in Florida, Main and Minnesota. Ehrenreich had hard times to find an apartment and often lived in cheap motels. She founds out that it is difficult, almost impossible, to live with the lowest wage and therefore many people need to work in two or more jobs. She works with people that are uneducated and have to live with only the little money they can earn, while Ehreneich had back up funds and knew that she would return to her better life. It is frustrating to see how she and her coworkers live in a situation that at the end seems even worse then at the beginning. The poor could have an opportunity to find better jobs. However, the situation does not allow for it because the lower paid jobs are in a neighborhood where they can also afford to live, and they do not have the time and ability to search for better jobs in other areas.Ehrenreich's experiences in Florida, Main and Minnesota are very different but in the end her conclusion is that governments do not care enough for the lower class in America.
4	1080259200	This book was very interesting to read. i had to read it for a book review for my Economics class, and it didnt seem like homework at all. It motivated me to shape up and go to college. I dont want to end up working a minimum wage job for the rest of my life. However, I wasnt surprised at Ehrenreichs results. This is a huge problem which our government needs to deal with.  i recommend this book to all.
5	1080172800	I began reading Barbara Ehrenreich's Nickel and Dimed as part of a Sociology lecture requirement at Temple University.  I read the book for a lesson in Sociology.  What I got was a lesson in life.  Not only have I read the book twice, but I have also seen the play in Philadelphia.Nickel and Dimed is separated into three different circumstancial living conditions where Barbara, author of twelve books at the moment, takes on the challenge of an average working class citizen just trying to get by.  Some feel that by doing so, she's patronizing those who she has been imitating.  This is not the case at all.  In order to fix a problem, you have to understand the source at hand.  The problem addressed here, in our economy, is poverty.  What better way to understand the source, than to literally put yourself at the mercy of it.  (That being a globalized, industrial society).  The writer sets a goal, not to see what she can do with her leftover money, but  to match her expenses with her income and to survive on these conditions.  Here, she puts an emphasis on the true conditions of the working class, perhaps overlooked by those who are not subject to them.  We are finally taking a new perspective as to what's wrong with our society- the first step in making a change.
3	1080086400	I thought that this book was decent. However, she is patronizing the life of low wage workers. She has made a lot of money off of this book and the difficulties of the lower class. I respect her for her initiative to do this, however it was not a true expeience. It was very well written and captivating.
3	1080086400	The author had &quot;fun&quot; exploring low-wage jobs but provides no authoritative look at what the numbers mean for wages and survival. She throws statistics around but does not know how to use the numbers. She advocates a &quot;living wage&quot; merely on the basis of anecdotal evidence that one cannot survive on the minimum wage without analyzing what it would do to the availability of jobs. She describes workers earning low wages who have no desire to change their [drug and party] lifestyles for behavior that would allow them to hold better jobs.Interesting reading, but I was looking for more understanding of the entire low-wage scene rather than anecdotes voiced in bitchy resentment.
4	1080000000	This is a great book for anyone to read.  It is interesting to see this journalist experience life as a poor working class woman stuggling to survive.  Ehrenreich serves justice to all those people who work endless hours each day just to ensure that rich people can live happy and cheap.  Recomended for anyone who wonders what life is like on the other side of the fence.
3	1079913600	This book is exactly what I try to stay away from: New York Times Bestselling garble. I had to read it and write a paper on it for a class a few weeks ago, so I feel more or less able to comment. What I saw was a mildly insulting journalistic poke into the world of people who really aren't getting by in America. The only thing Marxist about this book is that it takes place in the world of the proletarian (I think she even uses that term once or twice), and not in factories or mailrooms, either. The job titles author Ehrenreich acquires include waitress, sales associate at Wal Mart, and maid. It is indeed heartbreaking to read about the thankless toil that is the life of this country's working poor, but to me this book is just a sob story. There is really no particular offering from the author as to the solution to this problem (besides the idle hinting to coworkers at Wal Mart to form a union) and hardly any intelligent analysis of what all this means to the person who is buying this book - who is almost undoubtedly not a member of America's "underclass" if they can spend money on a book like this one. In sum, I think that Ehrenreich's attempt at exposing working conditions in America is short-sighted and otherwise lackluster. I would refer readers to hailed classics like Upton Sinclair's The Jungle in its place.
5	1079568000	I thought this book was absolutely fantastic.  I found it an easy, five-hour read of 221 pages.  The negative reviews of this book, I believe, are coming from two sorts of people.  First are those who wish the book to be something it is not.  This book is NOT attempt to be a serious, sociological study.  It is only what its author purports it to be-the experiences of ONE reporter, making three reasonable attempts, in three vastly different locales, to live at a minimally acceptable standard on the salaries offered in low-wage service positions.Other criticisms of this book came from those who felt the author was a left-wing extremist, against the rich, advocating transfer payments from rich to poor.  A few people ranted and raved, in their reviews, about what "solutions" she was advocating.  I think these people didn't read very carefully.  I did not find her advocating any solutions at ALL, only bringing up the dilemmas, and posing questions that we should ALL be posing.  But to accuse the author of advocating things which she did not say, is akin to putting words in her mouth, by some people who literally feel threatened by anyone who asks the questions she poses!The most overwhelming feeling I got from reading her book was of HOW RICH I AM (and I'm an American  living in a third-world country)!  Anyone who is feeling the least bit sorry for themselves in this life should read this book, and they will  IMMEDIATELY feel better.  Mainly, just having good food to eat every day, and being able to pay for medical, or dental, care whenever I need it is a true luxury that we all forget about, as well as having a comfortable roof over my head.  We are all guilty of taking these things so much for granted, when we have them.The most important conclusion the author draws in this book is that low-wage jobs are so far out-of-whack with the costs of housing, and that this is what is just killing people, and keeping them barely surviving.  She shows how this situation has gotten worse in recent years.  It is certainly true that most people in low-wage jobs are working two jobs to make ends meet.  I know this from personal experience.  My husband, a foreign immigrant to America for a time, worked in a hotel cleaning rooms.  He was the ONLY person who did not go to a second job at the end of an 8-hour shift (as we fortunately didn't NEED him to do that).  What this author, and most Americans, may not realize however, is that this is NOT just an AMERICAN problem.  It is true that the more socialistic countries in Europe "distribute the wealth" to lower-income persons.  But they are about the ONLY countries in the world that do (Canada may also).  In MOST countries of the world, salaries are FAR out-of-whack with  housing costs.  And the disparity if FAR worse than in America.  But there is one difference in America.  America has a lot of laws making it illegal to have too many people living in an apartment, for example.  You aren't allowed to have more people that two in an apartment for each bedroom.  In third-world countries, these restrictions don't exist.  So you could have ten people crowding into a one-bedroom apartment.  And believe me, they sometimes do.  It's the only way to make ends meet, for a lot of people.  This is a problem that has been with us since the world began, and will continue.  I don't have a solution.  I am not rich.  But I FELT SO RICH reading this book.  This book will help any person to really freshly appreciate what they do have.  I HIGHLY recommend it to EVERYONE.
5	1078963200	The author proposes to live the life of a low-income earner for a few months to see whether she could survive under these conditions.She starts in Key West her hometown (I am surprised no one has recognized her), moves to Portland, Maine, and then Minneapolis. In each city, she barely survives on her minimum wages but has to live in rundown motels or trailer. On one occasion, she has to take on two jobs to make ends meet despite the fact she does not have any dependent.The low-income earner, she finds out, is a "giver." He/she endures privation, lives in substandard housing, and toils at low wages to keep inflation low and prices reasonable.Although the study is simplistic, the author is to be congratulated for her courage and sense of adventure for undertaking this project.
1	1078963200	"Nickel and Dimed" could have been a good book. Supposedly a tale about how hard it is for the working poor to survive in America, "Nickel and Dimed" is instead a leftist screed that blames business owners, rich people, and even evangelical Christians for poverty in America."Nickel and Dimed" readers will be taught that welfare reform was bad, that we don't spend enough on public housing, that universal government-run day care would be nifty, and that Jesus was a socialist. (He wasn't. See Luke 12:13-15)Author Barbara Ehrenreich writes regularly for liberal publications such as The Nation and Harper's Magazine. A few years after the passage of the 1996 welfare reform bill, Ehrenreich decided to take a series of low-wage jobs to see how well the working poor were doing.Ehrenreich journeys from Key West, Florida, to Portland, Maine, to Minneapolis, Minnesota, on her low-income experiment, working as a waitress, a maid, and a Wal-Mart clerk. Her wages range from $7 to $9 an hour-for hard work. This book does serve the useful purpose of exploding any romantic notions about the nobility of being poor, if anyone still believes that. Poverty sucks, says Ken Hamblin, the conservative black radio host. The fact that it sucks serves as an incentive to improve one's skills and education to find a better job.Ehrenreich is certainly a vivid writer, telling clearly her travails in trying to rent a room, buy food and clothing, and get transportation on her low-wage earnings. But that's partly the problem with the book. We know that she is merely conducting an experiment. If things get too tough for poor Barb, she can return to her upper-middle-class job as a liberal journalist.A much more engaging story could have been told about the people she meets and mentions briefly. How about George, a 19-year-old Czech dishwasher? He has been in America only a week when Ehrenreich meets him on her waitress job. What's his story? What would drive him to leave home and seek greener pastures in America? Is he here legally, or illegally? (Now that's a great topic for a book-how illegal immigration may be driving down the wages of working class Americans.)Holly is the 23-year-old team leader of the maid service at one of Ehrenreich's other jobs. Holly is pregnant, and she "has been married for almost a year, and manages to feed her husband, herself, and an elderly relative on $30-$50 a week," writes Ehrenreich. How does Holly do it? We never find out.What we do get lots of in "Nickel and Dimed" are Ehrenreich's policy prescriptions on how to help the working poor in America. Her solutions, as you can surmise, are more government spending and more social welfare programs.For example, Ehrenreich promotes public housing and housing vouchers, because "the market fails to distribute some vital commodit[ies], like housing, to all who require it." But the housing market has not failed. The reason it is so difficult for low-income people to find affordable housing is precisely because the government has meddled in the housing market. Rent control and restrictions on development have made it very difficult to build and lease low-income housing units. Government created the low-income housing shortage, and Ehrenreich can only come up with more government solutions to fix the problem.Other items on Ehrenreich's list of government do-good recommendations: living wage laws, expanded public transit, government day care. But we've been there, done that.With the enormous expansion of social programs in the 1960s and 1970s, America waged war on poverty-and poverty won. What we learned from that wasteful experience is that welfare creates dependency, destroys stable families, and causes worse social pathologies, like crime and delinquency, than the poverty that the social programs were supposed to eradicate.Through the pioneering research of scholars such as Robert Rector and Marvin Olasky, we know what the main factors are that force people down the road of poverty-single parenthood, lack of a strong work ethic, addiction. If single mothers married the father of their children, says Rector, three-quarters of poor children would immediately be lifted out of poverty.
4	1077926400	Barbara Ehrenreich, for all of the fundamental flaws in the premise of her grand experiment, does a fairly good job presenting the &quot;working poor.&quot; Nickel and Dimed is a first-hand account of Ehrenreich's attempt to assume a low-paying (read: Sub- $8.00/hr) job and attempt to, essentially, make ends meet. She holds numerous positions, among which are waitressing in the Key West and cleaning houses in Maine. While her writing may get wordy and almost general to a fault (she tends to use non-specific, broad language which makes it mildly boring), she does a commendable job of holding reader's interest overall.Overall being the key word.Ehrenreich does a formidable job of presenting her own circumstances, and there is much to be said for an actual &quot;experiment&quot; versus plain regurgitation of news articles or statistics. Additionally (fully appreciated by me), she does not weigh her writing down in facts; rather, she presents the issue at hand (with a noticeable leftist-skew, but it is tolerable) as she has experienced them, leaving the reader to make their own judgement.While this book is a sounding board for Ehrenreich's own political commentary, what she says is validated by the circumstances she had put herself in to write this book. Did she really get a 100% accurate experience? Of course not. But she manages to maintain an air of credibility by having actually experienced about what she writes.This is an excellent book to read for an introduction to the plight of the &quot;working poor.&quot; While I don't agree with a lot of what she says, it is still worthwhile - she raises issues on the most fundamental level of acceptable survival/lifestyle, and validly so. There are, of course, flaws in what she did - and it was exactly that, an &quot;experiment&quot; - she could easily revert back to her old, cushy lifestyle without much effort.
4	1077494400	The book Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich is an excellent demonstration of how difficult it is to survive on a low-wage income.  Ms. Ehrenreich is a journalist with a Ph.D. who temporarily gives up life as she knows it to join the millions of people who work full-time earning poverty-level wages.She sets out with next to nothing to beging this journey in Florida then moves to Maine and eventually Minnesota.  She worked as a waitress, a hotel housekeeper, a cleaning maid, a dietary aide and even a sales clerk at Wal-Mart.  At times she must even juggle two jobs at once to make ends meet.  While Barbara struggles through difficult times, as many of us do, she is only conducting a research assignment and is able to return to a comfortable life.  Unfortunately, many Americans do not have this luxury and must continue to struggle, day in and day out, to pay the rent and hopefully have enough money left over for food.This book is an eye-opener in several aspects.  First, it puts into perspective just how many people actually do fight to survive in the real world.  Next, it makes me realize how lucky I am and that life really isn't that bad; compared to how some people live.  I may not be able to afford brand name clothes or go to fancy restaurants but I do have clothes on my back and food to eat every day.  Finally, it stresses the importance of respect and appreciation for everyone regardless of what job they hold.  Many low-wage employees are frowned upon or simply ignored because of their status but they work just as hard and are just as dedicated to their job as an executive is.  They make the least amount of money and often times do the hardest work yet they are rarely recognized for it.  Keep this in mind next time you pass a housekeeper in a hotel hallway or contemplate leaving a tip for your waitress.  Remember to say hello and thank them for the service they provided for you!
4	1077148800	It's tough to get by on minimum wage...but you must already know that.  If that comes as a shocker then with all due respect, please read this book.  If you are aware of this fact, still read this book.  It might make you angry and at times you feel like strangling Barbara Ehrenreich because of her constant references to her success in her &quot;real life&quot; with her PhD and her daughter at Harvard, and because as soon as the money started to get low and things really got tough, she was quick to depart from her rough environment.  How many of her co-workers were able to do that?  This book raises issues that both conservatives and liberals are aware of, but conservatives choose not to pay attention to, such issues as unaffordable housing for people who work low wage jobs and are at the bottom of the economic scale forcing them to become renters rather than owners and limiting their ability to gain financial stability.Ehrenreich pats herself on the back for a job well done.  Yes, she has been accustom to the spoils of life that many of us could not possibly go without for more than a day, but this only works to slight the fact that she failed; after all, the subtitle reads, &quot;On NOT getting by in America&quot;.  The gap between the rich and the poor is increasing.  Ehrenreich works two jobs a week to stay afloat but is gone after basically a week.  She also never is able to fully embody the minimum wage worker.  Her life of spoils causes her to sometimes misuse her money by ordering fast food rather than buying food at the grocery market for the same price to last her six more days than a fast food meal does.Despite Ehrenreich's flaws, the interviews and detailed economic interactions she has are insightful and give rise to reflections.  In a world where a majority wants to see the wrong righted, this book offers issues where wrongs can be righted in regard to finding affordable housing for low income Americans or forming unions in jobs like Wal-Mart where so many rights are taken from their workers as well as issues with health care.  Conservatives will hate it, liberals will love it, but within both groups individuals will come out of it with individual opinions on the working poor in America.
1	1077148800	I was prepared to read this as a fact-finding book.  What I discovered was an author who invariably found exactly what she expected to find, and, in the rush to foreordained conclusions, never noticed that her observations contradict one another.The last sentence of the book exemplifies Ehrenreich's soggy thinking: "I never met an actual slacker or, for that matter, a drug addict or thief." In fact, as she tells it, she met at least two thieves (a worker who stole from a storeroom and a disliked boss who was perhaps also an addict) and two slackers -- the worker who went AWOL from a nursing home job and left her to a grueling day, and Ehrenreich herself, when she "called in sick" at the nursing home because she wanted a day off, leaving someone else to have a grueling day.  Secondly, she stayed in no job long enough to truly know her coworkers.  Thirdly, and in any case, not meeting slackers, addicts, or thieves would not prove they don't exist.Other examples: Ehrenreich exults when the aforementioned boss is fired for stealing money for drugs but concludes that urine tests for drugs are meant only to intimidate workers.  Employed as a waitress, she is advised not to let her customers run her ragged and views this as the Corporation preventing her from caring for them; later she quits because a table of customers has run her ragged -- so why was the advice Corporate malice and not Corporate protectiveness?Ehrenreich sympathizes with and condescends to her coworkers simultaneously. Because she finds certain jobs degrading, she believes the jobholder to be degraded, and never mind what the jobholder thinks. Because some people -- at both ends of the economic spectrum -- treat her differently when she is in a maid uniform,  she thinks she is demeaned. Thus, when her fellow maids value their work and want praise for doing it well, she pities them and believes them to be brainwashed. The fault, of course, is with those who treat maids differently -- that is, with people who don't confer dignity on all honest work.  Unfortunately, Ehrenreich appears to be among them.In some cases, such as that of the storeroom thief, she comes dangerously close to arguing that business causes both poverty and misbehavior.  Has Ehrenreich thought this through? Are human beings so weak and malleable that certain pay levels and job conditions provoke involuntary thievery, laziness, etc.?  Or are "the oppressed" a special category, of whom society shouldn't expect good character and good sense? In short, does Ehrenreich think ill of humanity in general or merely those for whom she claims to speak?Buy this book if you want propaganda to confirm what you think you already know. Don't buy it if you want logical thinking on an important topic.
5	1077148800	The Republicans will either ignore or hate this book, but I worked at the majority of the places she mentions, and yes, she is very accurate in her discriptions.She doesn't mention that there are also many college graduates with liberal arts degrees (Journalism, English, Philosophy, Liberal Arts, etc ) who are working at these jobs as well.For those of you who are non-business majors, business only cares about business and nothing else. All managers -- yes, even the nice ones -- believe they have divine authority and impeccable judgement.I landed a job driving the city bus, which pays well, but with the danger of a police officer without a gun or backup. I have a degree in English/Philosophy, but there's not much call for that in my job. I wish the author would have went more into the plight of the college educated who also work at these jobs.As Lincoln once wrote, "Labor is more important than capital, for without labor there would be no capital."
2	1077062400	Barbara Ehrenreich should be both ashamed and proud.  She should be proud of herself because she's a good writer (which is an admirable and difficult to acquire skill), she should be ashamed because she's a poor journalist......and she's more a journalist.  This "expiriment" was tainted from the start.  Barbara Ehrenreich wasn't looking to write a expose about the "soiled but still intact" American Dream (and the (X) ways to avoid getting crushed under it); no, she knew how the story would go.  This was a campaign not to emphasize the legitimite plight of our countries poor, but instead, to further her career and fatten her wallet.I read this book about two years ago not to find fault with it, but rather (as a large employer) to better understand the plight of some of my lowest paid employees.  I believe understanding is the first step towards finding an equitable solution.  Well, time after time I found myself shaking my head as she acted out her "impression" of an uneducated poor person.  According to Barbara Ehrenreich poor people aren't smart enough to rent rooms to cut their biggest expense (rent) in half while they get on their feet, or to cook at home (vs. go out and spend $11 on a burger and wine), or to exceed the expectations of their employer (hint: that's how you get raises).I barely got through High School, I know what it's like to stand in line with WIC coupons while the cashier decides what food that you picked out will or won't qualify, my paychecks at 13 (when I started working at an Ice Cream Parlor for $3.50hr) went towards buying food, my mom worked as a security co. receptionist by day and waitress by night; I know the agony, and debilitating emotional toll that being poor takes on people......that was 10 years ago.  After a long hard slog I now own a Consumer Service company (over 1,000 employees), a Software Company (100 employees), a Restaurant, and a Nightclub.  This, according to Barbara Ehrenreich would be a literal impossibility.  How did I do it?  Well, I could go into boring detail...I won't; but at the core of my long answer would be this: OPTIMISM.  I fundamentally believed it could be done.  I took a sales job for minimum wage + commission (Barbara Ehrenreich never did that...another handicap...?), I got a roommate, and I worked 70 hours a week.  Nothing happened at first (but exhaustion), nothing perceptible anyway, but unbeknownst to me, I was learning and developing respect as a hard worker from those that I worked for.That's how you do it.  When you "NEED" to.  Barbara Ehrenreich never needed to.  She got her story, she made her money.  But at what cost?  It's my belief that this book sapped "just that much more" desperately needed optimism from our wonderful, ever changing, painfully flawed, but best available ideal we call The American Dream.
1	1076630400	Though I could relate to the poor people in this book, the author did not put her point across as it could have been. All she showed was that there are waiters and waitresses and hotel maids that work hard for low wages. Didn't we all know that? She also occasionally dipped into her own money, rendering the entire experiment faulty.Plus, when she admits to smoking pot, the book turned me off because if you really were that poor, you certainly wouldn't spend any money on pot. Her entrance into the world of the working force was a farce and she made it a farce. This book is a good subject, it just could have been written with much more punch.
3	1076457600	Although I am skeptical of Barbara's ability to find low-cost living solutions (I can find cheaper housing in San Francisco - one of the two most expensive rental markets in the country - than she was able to find in Minneapolis) I definately agree with the basic theme of her book: life is not affordable on minimum wage in this country.  This book offers yet more evidence of the ever-growing gap between the rich and poor, and is especially relevant now during our jobless &quot;recovery.&quot;  But I didn't find the book to be particularly insightful; much of the data used is common knowledge - only the methods are truly original.  Still, it is a worthwhile read, and if nothing else it should make you more compassionate when dealing with low-wage workers.
5	1075507200	I haven't felt compelled to write a review in some time, but reading this book was like being thrown into very icy waters, and learning how to swim again in frigid temperatures. I mean, that person who just served me a hamburger at McDonald's may or may not be getting by on her salary; oh, and the people I &quot;manage&quot; in the coffeeshop where I work subsist on minimum wage and tips we accumulate in a large jar, and no health insurance, most of them no car unless their parents bought it for them. I don't know. All I do know is there are two Americas; one for the working poor and one for the rich. The working poor are seldom talked about. Read This Book.
4	1075075200	This book reads like a novel. What is horrible is that it is not fiction. The characters are all too real and so are their problems and their attempt to get by on minimum wage.The author was quite brave. Of course it was easier for her to get by since she knew she could turn around at any moment. Which she did... but it was brave to go out there and try...
1	1075075200	Ms. Ehrenreich  makes the very point she is trying to deny in this book. &quot;Low wage&quot; jobs actually serve an important purpose in society: they allow low-skilled people to earn a living. Without the fast food chains and discount store employers, these folks would be even worse off! At least with these &quot;back-breaking&quot; jobs, they have a chance to enter the job market, a chance to rent a trailer with running water, and a chance to improve their skills.As for &quot;affordable housing,&quot; nobody is &quot;entitled&quot; to own their own house. When you earn a low wage, renting a small place is what you do. Some of the &quot;characters&quot; in her book seemed to appreciate what they could afford, as opposed to Ms. Ehrenreich, a spoiled brat, who bemoans the small bathroom and long travelling distance from her trailer to her workplace.The book was a rant against successful people who make accomplishments in their lives. Mr. Ehrenreich seems to feel guilty for her own success as a journalist.
3	1074643200	This revealing look at the low-wage worker class does have many problems with methodology, which you can see in plenty of other reviews. Ehrenreich certainly took a chance by leaving her comfy lifestyle to live and work among the lower class. The authenticity of her investigation is definitely damaged by her use of a pre-paid car (shielding her from reliance on mass transit or rides from friends), while she had a backup emergency fund and the obvious ability to drop out of the project anytime she chose. My biggest qualm is the fact that Ehrenreich, even though she got some comparative insights by working in different cities, stayed in each one only for a month. This way she avoided the long-term problems of the working poor, especially the mounting debt loads, not to mention the long-term misery that comes when you realize you're not getting anywhere.On the good side, you will certainly appreciate the sociological insights Ehrenreich uncovers from inside the poor working class. Housing of course is the major killer, along with repetitive work injuries, the indignity of menial work, and the sense of isolation from the rest of the world. Ehrenreich also has some great and darkly sarcastic things to say about the bizarre working culture at Wal-Mart. Unfortunately, Ehrenreich sets the book even further back with a deficit in the likeability department. This is especially true when describing her stint at a Maid agency, when she goes on tirades about the snobbish owners of the houses she cleaned, which are not much different from her own house back in real life. Ehrenreich's conclusions about the working class in light of current economics and politics are generally accurate but a bit heavy-handed. Ehrenreich congratulates herself for her experiment even though, unlike the people she met in the trenches, she could easily get out of it. But in the end, this is definitely a revealing and often dismaying look at the lives of misery more and more people have to live these days, and Ehrenreich's perspective from the more privileged class is certainly useful. [~doomsdayer520~]
5	1074470400	Not only does Ms. Ehrenreich go through with what she's sets herself out to do and in the process manage to produce an extremely relevant piece of work, her detailed descriptions, her sarcasm and humor, all makes this book a truly enjoyable read.What I most enjoyed is the author's willingness to reveal herself and her own short comings, and make this a truly personal story. No, she doesn't really experience being poor (how could she?) but she gets a taste of what it's like living under these conditions and makes observations only an outsider could make. All this she manage to share with the reader in a way that really makes you stop and think. And maybe even care.
4	1074470400	Barbara Ehrenreich's book spoke the truth.  Those of us who have &quot;comfortable&quot; lives treat the people in lowering paying jobs as &quot;objects&quot; and it's high time we stopped.  One reviewer uses the phrase, &quot;There but by the grace of God, go I.&quot;  You had better believe it!And to those whiny reviewers who have nothing better to do but criticize a book that puts the plight of the poor out there for all of us to see, I have a few suggestions:1.  Be thankful you had enough money to buy the book.  The real people portrayed in the book do not have your kind of &quot;extra&quot; income.2.  Drag your whiny butts up off your expensive furniture, which is under a roof that you sleep under safely night after night, GO OUT and help these people.There are millions of people who are working Sundays and holidays just so that they can make ends meet.  They want to be at homes with their families, enjoying their families, reading books, but no, they have to work these jobs to be able to put food on the table for themselves and their children and hopefully make enough to put a roof over their heads that provides some level of comfort and safety.Those of us with the additional financial means, need to get out there and help these people.  We weren't placed on this earth to see how much we could put into our Gucci knapsacks before we croak.  We came into this world with nothing.  We'll leave the same way.  Just like the poor will do.What we can do though, is make their lives a little better in the process of living our lives.  Give these people some of the extra that you have, anonymously.  If you want gratitude for it, then keep it.  Help a single parent as often as you can.  God knows they are some of the hardest workers on the face of this earth.On Christmas Day, drag out some of your coveted cash and give it to a person who is working.  They're not working on this particular day because they &quot;love their jobs.&quot;  They're working because they &quot;have to.&quot;  An additional $50, $100 or more can mean a lot to them.It may mean the difference between buying medicine they need and just toughing out an illness.  It may mean the difference between being able to buy their child a Christmas gift and not being able to.  It might mean the difference between paying the rent that month and being kicked out over the holidays.But don't do it because you want a &quot;big thank you&quot; from them.  Do it because you care about helping out your brother or sister who is in need.  &quot;What you did for the least of my brothers, you also did for me.&quot;Was Ehrenreich the perfect author?  No, but her book should make us all wince at how self-centered we've become that we take a haughty attitude to anyone we consider less than us in social standing.  Get off the sidelines and help these people out!
5	1074211200	I always figured the poor only had to educate themselves (while working - night courses etc) to improve their lot and that those who didn't were not doing enough to help themselves. Nickel and Dimed taught me that the poor have no time and no money to pay for courses or to do anything other than scrape by. Yet, most of the poor described by the author appear to have intelligence, perseverence, kindness, and abilities. What an amazing waste of human ressources in a country that has no excuse.The book highlights the uncaring nature of so many that are better off. These people will always offer plausible excuses but the fact is they do not recognize and honor their good luck and do not share their ressources or adequately support merchants and manufacturers who sell Made in America (there is truth in the expression: There but for the grace of God go I).I feel Ms. Ehrenreich's book serves as a great wake-up alarm particularly at a time when we begin to select our next President. Let's try to make the candidates understand thoroughly these issues and demand that a full range of steps and programs be started or renewed vigorously.
4	1073606400	I first learned of Barbara Ehrenreich when, as an OB nurse and aspiring midwife, I read her seminal 'Witches, Midwives, and Nurses.' I've been a fan of her writing ever since, and 'Nickle and Dimed' doesn't disappoint. To do the research needed to write this book, trying to determine if one can live on the salary of an entry level minimum wage job, Ehrenreich decided to do what was necessary to REALLY find out: she would live the life herself. She worked as a waitress in Florida, a cleaning woman and nursing home aide in Maine, and an employee of Wal-Mart in Minnesota - - - and came up with the not-surprising result that she had to work two jobs, seven days a week, and still almost wound up in a homeless shelter.But the most enjoyable part of this totally bleak vision is Ehrenreich's inimitable writing style: sarcastic, outraged, funny, witty, and very, very liberal in her political outlook. She makes reading this expose a pleasure.
3	1073260800	. . . about the life of a minimum wage service worker. Ehrenreich is a middle-class homemaker who goes undercover with a suitcase of clothes, $1,000 pocket cash and a car to live in several cities over a couple of years relying on the income from six jobs she gets hired for - ranging from waitressing to maid service to Wal-Mart clerk. She is frequently shocked and challenged by her voluntary step down the socioeconomic ladder to survive in a low-income world, and describes the difficulties faced in such jobs and the financial trap they can become.Though the book provides a reasonable account of life in minimum wage America, I did not like the way Ehrenreich often rambled on about her life back home, her feelings and reminiscences - making the book read more like a personal diary. Most of all I was bothered by her frequent cynical and socialistic interpretations of anything or anyone representing wealth, power or business in general. I would have liked this book more if she had kept to the story, and left her one-sided and at times, downright snobbish opining out of what was otherwise a revealing documentary.You can quickly glean much of this book by reading the last chapter ("Evaluation") where she summarizes her findings and analysis of the companies she worked for, and even indicates some solutions for workers wanting to better their lot (e.g. the value of keeping yourself in job shopping mode and informed of the local job market - not necessarily settling for the first job offered nor lingering with a less than satisfactory job. The same goes for finding better housing.) Also useful at the end of the book is a Reader's Guide, which lists questions for discussion.
1	1073174400	I, like others who have reviewed before me, had great expectations for this book and had read much about it before I actually got a chance to read it. Overall, I was appalled by Ehrenreich's sense of entitlement and the self-righteous tone that pervaded the book. Ehrenreich is undoubtedly a well-respected writer to be commended for undertaking this project and raising this issue to the public. Indeed, her book cites several well-respected studies, economists, and articles in order to clarify and lend credence to her points.However, as I read through the book, I found several things to give me pause:1. Her reasons for selecting Minnesota over California as a destination:p.121: "But warnings about the heat and the allergies put me off, not to mention my worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the crap jobs and substandard housing for themselves..."2. Her contention that all Midwesterners are fat:p.166 "All right, everyone knows that Midwesterners, and especially those in the lower middle class, are tragically burdened by the residues of decades of potato chips and French toast sticks..."3. Her sweeping generalization about how poor people wear their hair: p.175 "Ponytails are common, or, for the characteristic Wal-Martian beat up and hopeless look, straight shoulder length hair, parted in the middle and kept out of the face by two bobby pins."4. Comparing the ostracism she faced as a maid to being a minority:p.100 - "Maybe, it occurs to me, I'm getting a tiny glimpse of what it would be like to be black."There may be a certain element of &quot;tongue in cheek&quot; here but these comments as well as others in the book feel disengenuous, particularly from someone who, as she points out several times throughout the book, has a PhD and a very comfortable background and safety net to fall back on. Ehrenreich can hardly suppress her glee at quitting her jobs and takes great satisfaction in telling her co-workers that she is leaving, that it has all been a farce, and she is going back to a life that they've never known.Ultimately, Ehrenreich hasn't done anyone any favors. Her book is merely a whiny, smug journal kept of a poorly executed experiment. It is unfortunate that someone with such potential and prominent backing (i.e. the editor of Harper's) turned in such a poor piece of journalism, raising nothing but speculation.
2	1073088000	I can't say much about this book that hasn't already been said more eloquently by other reviewers, but I'll add my 2 cents anyway: I have major issues with Ehrenreich's methods. She went into the experiment with money in her pocket and a car. When she got a rash, she called her dermatologist in Key West, rather than hitting the E.R. like a real poor person would have to do. She passed on a $10-an-hour, 3-day-a-week job because she was too tired and frazzled to show up for the first day. She smoked pot, and then complained about having to take drug tests for employment, tests she knew she'd have to take when she toked up (and then she suggests that the only purpose of drug tests is to humiliate potential employees--couldn't be that employers don't want their employees doing illegal [and, to some, immoral] things, could it?)The really annoying thing, though, is the way that through the entire book, she marvels at the fact that she can actually relate to the people she works with. Oh my gods! You mean poor people are just like the rest of us? Who knew they had the typical human range of emotions and experiences? Um, I did. But then, I've never lived the life of relative privilege she seems to come from. I've never been as poor as some of her coworkers, but I've known people who were, and sure enough, they're just like you and me. Funny thing about that. I hope I don't turn out like her--whiny and oblivious--when I get my Ph.D.OK, so maybe she's been sheltered, and maybe the experience of &quot;hard work for little pay&quot; was good for her. But she takes on this &quot;now I know what it's really like&quot; attitude after her half-assed trip into poverty, pretending to have had some kind of revelation and referring to Marx like she's suddenly a real proletariat. But realizing that people are poor, and actually being poor, are two separate things, and Ehrenreich has done the former, but whether she has done the latter is debatable. I admit I would have cut corners and preserved my comfort, too--but unlike the author, I wouldn't try to claim that I had truly experienced a poor person's life.If you're one of those people who believes that the poor are lazy, or complain too much, or just plain don't exist, then you should read this book. However, if you happen to live in, or at least be aware of, the real world, skip it.
4	1072828800	If Ehrenreich does nothing else, she at least reminds us to empathize with those who struggle to survive without any other aid.As any enlightened human being already knows, surviving on a minimum wage, without affordable housing or health insurance provides a near impossible hurdle for many to overcome. Especially if one is a single parent. In this case, Ehrenreich breaks no new ground here. With this book, she is already preaching to the choir. However we all still need preaching. For this truth needs constant re-enforcing.Placing herself in the position of a maid, waitress, nursing home worker and retail clerk, the author re-discovers the hard truth: that working at a low wage becomes a monotonous and often degrading cycle that becomes difficult to break. Sometimes people do not always choose to be poor (an attitude often shared by liberal and conservative thinkers alike).Recent administrations, both Republican and Democratic alike have championed the number of jobs they have created and the welfare reforms they have enacted.Unfortunately most of those &quot;created&quot; jobs do no pay a living wage. The truth remains that there are no simple solutions to the age old issue of working class poverty.Still NICKEL AND DIMED reminds its readers to empathize with the workers burdened with making everyone else's lives easier. These are the people who make the food cheaper, clean the toilets and wipe the aged bums- jobs that are all noble in so much as they provide necessary services and are deserving of the same services and opportunities everyone else enjoys in a free society.A good fast read that ultimately re-affirms the truth. May we all continue to search and work for a solution.
1	1072396800	After extensive study and field investigation, Barbara Ehrenreich came to a conclusion that the lower 95% of the population have always known: Starting from scratch aint easy. The only people who might be enlightned by this book are other self-rightous, liberal, elitist brats who have never punched a time card or bothered to stop and talk to the &quot;underclass&quot;.Reportedly, her next book will be entitled &quot;Fat and Ugly: (not) Getting Laid in America.&quot;I can't wait to be enlightened.
3	1071705600	Barbara Ehrenreich does a well done job writing this book.  She shows how living on minimum wages will get you nowhere.  Barbara talks about how getting two jobs is the only way to live indoors.  She finds out that these low wage occupations require hard work and discipline.
5	1071705600	It is incredible to think of just how many workers are treated as unjustly as Ehrenreich was on a daily basis.  Things need to change.  In contemporary society we are capable of so much, and we have failed to utilize all of our resources.  Knowledge is power, and Barbara Ehrenreich has  proved it.
4	1071705600	We all know a little bit about the work force in America, but with this book, Barbara takes you to a whole different level. You really get a sense of how hard it is to be working as a low wage employee, and how the people employed at these jobs are really workings their butts off, big time! Barbara makes her readers realize how underpaid the working class really is, and how hard it is to support a sufficient lifestyle.
5	1071187200	If you've had the good fortune to be born into a family that didn't live paycheck to paycheck and/or that encouraged you to go to college,  maybe even helped pay for it (tuition, room, board, etc.), this book is the one to teach you true gratitude and how to understand the conditions of anyone who wasn't given the early foundation that you might have been lucky enough to experience.From a broader perspective, employment conditions are worsening every day for all of us, but the first to feel it and who are the hardest hit are those who are lowest paid and their children. Ehrenreich demonstrates how the less you make, the more odious the task, plus  the less respect you get from your employers. How quickly people have forgotten that up until at least the mid-1970's, most any job included FREE health insurance. Benefits that didn't require co-pays and where you could go to any doctor you chose, not a restrictive HMO. What's more, it was free to include your kids and spouse on your plan.The class schedules of 99.9% of all respected universities are geared for people who don't need to work during the day. Tuition rates  are increasing at a frightening pace.How much is it to ask that at the very least, those with money treat their employees with respect and compassion? Is it too much to hope that people with spending power not be obscenely wasteful and polluting while they're at it?Whatever your socio-political stance, this is the book to read if you want to to learn more about this shameful problem. At the very least, it will make you think. At best, it'll get you thinking about how you might choose to become an integral part of the various creative solutions that are so crucially needed.
4	1071187200	Barbara Ehrenreich is a great writer whom writes Nickel and Dimed to point out a lot of the poverty our people go threw. I really enjoyed reading this book because it relates a lot towards students, because they wish to find a job and be independent and living on their own, but what ends up happening is that with one job paying only minimum wage isnt enought to survive. They learn that because of the lack of education they are to have two jobs in order to live the life they look forward on living. Barbara teaches us that living in poverty is not a bad thing because you can also live happy without haveing a lot of money.
5	1071014400	I thought that this was a great book. I never realized how hard the lower class had to work until now. Barbara Ehrenreich captures the hardness of people working for six or seven dollas a hour.  She talks about how it is impossible to make a living on such a low amount and how hard it is for these people.  I think this is a book that everyone should read and find out how other people live.
3	1070668800	This is a well-written, interesting, anecdotal book about a well-educated woman's sojourn among the working poor. If only the author had stopped there, the book still would have been a hit. Instead, the author chose to claim it to be representative undercover reportage. Unfortunately, she does not do this with any objectivity, as she views all that she does through liberal, rose colored glasses. Nor does she live as the truly working poor do, as her existence is isolated, cut off from all support systems. While the author received raves from the New York Times Book Review, which acclaimed the author as "...the premier reporter of the underside of capitalism",  the reader should remember that the New York Times is the bastion of East Coast liberalism, and take such praise with a grain of salt.The author comes across as a somewhat vapid individual, whose  inherent biases and expectations prevent her from being able to live as a true member of the working poor or interact with them on a truly human level.  She objects to having to take drug tests in order to secure a minimum wage position, stating that the costs of such a test outweigh the benefits, without any clear understanding, other than the cost of the drug test itself,  of what the potential costs of employing substance abusers would be. She authoritatively uses statistics willy-nilly without grounding them in an appropriate context. The author does, however, establish one very important key point that would certainly tend to keep the working poor running in place, and that has to do with the cost of housing. The book leaves little doubt that there needs to be more affordable housing for the working poor. Yet, the author offers no suggestions as to how that would best be accomplished.Moreover, the author, during her work as a cleaner for a cleaning service company, seems to have a lot of negative things to say about people who have had some demonstrable achievements in life. The author seems to forget that in almost every chapter she does not hesitate to remind the reader that she holds a Ph.D, is middle class, educated, yada, yada, yada. The one positive thing that comes out of her experience as a cleaner is that she points out that  some cleaning service companies are doing a pretty filthy job of cleaning people's homes. Thanks, Barbara, for the tip, as I would now never consider using such, preferring to do it myself. Unfortunately, her remarks just  might cause some of these companies to lose business, causing them to cut back on personnel, the very working poor of whom the author writes.While the book is interesting at times, the pretentiousness of the author is generally grating and the books ends up being a poor execution of its promise. The author is the quintessential do-gooder, placed in settings of which she has little understanding other than her own pre-conceived, ideologically based ones. It is true that minimum wage will never allow anyone to flourish without some sort of support system in place. Minimum wage is nothing more than what its name states it is.  Minimum wage, however, allows the unskilled, minimally experienced worker to get some job experience and a proven track record in terms of the work world. Moreover, some of the problems that the author mentions are just  those of bad management by those in  positions of power. This is not, however, a situation relegated to those who hold minimum wage jobs. Corporate America is rife with bad management and bosses that treat their employees, even well-compensated ones, badly.
5	1069718400	Often authors writing to effect social change follow the Upton Sinclair model: detailed misery, barely suppressed rage, bleak outlook. Not Barbara Ehrenreich. This slim volume is kept lively with its self-deprecating humor and biting wit. True, some of the players are ready made self-parodies, such as WalMart, which urges its employees to think of their managers not as bosses, but &quot;servant leaders&quot;, and of goofing off not as goofing off, but &quot;time theft&quot;.But Ehrenreich goes beyond such easy pickings in her talks with the &quot;Wal-Martians&quot; to find deeper levels of comic thought. The servant leader at her job interview had read Sam Walton's book and &quot;found that the three pillars of Wal-Mart philosophy precisely fit her own, and these are service, excellence (or something like that), and she can't remember the third&quot;. On the personality survey part of the application the servant leader assures Ehrenreich that there are &quot;no right or wrong answers&quot;, and tells her ten minutes later that she's gotten three answers wrong.In her time as a maid in Maine, she learns that the trend in cleaning is to keep the use of water to a minimum. The focus is on the &quot;cosmetic touches&quot;:fluffing pillows, combing the fringes of rugs, leaving a &quot;fernlike pattern&quot; with the tracks of a vacuum cleaner. The maid in Maine section is unlikely to cause housekeepers in New England to organize, but may welll give pause to those middle class millions who in the nineties go the absurd idea that they were too busy or exalted to clean their own homes. As maid, Ehrenreich notes all the quirks of the maid service system even as she cleans, exercising fully her gift for wry observation. At one point I thought she had veered into homoeroticism as she related scrubbing submissively on her hands and knees at the feet of a dominant rich woman (a certain Mrs.W), but it turned out that Mrs. W. had only come close to the scrubbing maid/narrator to remind her to do the entryway.In each of her jobs--waitress, maid, retail clerk--she details the frustrations and humiliations that anyone who had held such a job knows all too well, then couples this struggle with the struggle to find low cost housing--and never finds a viable match; that is, never finds a place to live that will not break her low wage budget. It should be noted that in this search for housing she only goes to multiplex corporate facilities such as motels and apartment buildings (and once to a trailor park), never exploring the possiblities in non-transient neighborhoods where apartments in houses or small buildings are offered by ordinary people needing additional income. This is odd considering activists' usual passion for community interactivity.Strange, too, is her classification of cigarettes on p.213 as a cost of living rather than an avoidable tax on the poor and ignorant, the very reverse of health insurance. She is silent on other tax matters that affect the poor as well, such as the flat payroll tax which begins gnawing into low wage workers' earnings the moment they pick up the cleaning rag. Nor does she say whether she conscientously calculated and paid (as required by law) the tax on her tip income in Florida.Still, NICKEL AND DIMED is generally thoughtful and a pleasure to read. A good sequel to it would find the author going undercover as a small (or large) business owner determined to make her enterprise successful while at the same time paying a &quot;living wage&quot; to her mostly unskilled and uneducated employees.
5	1069545600	This book made me think.  Right or wrong, good or bad, this book got me to re-evaluate some of the tenets I took for granted.  What more can you ask for?Sure, you can complain about how you might think the author can't really know the &quot;shadow class&quot; of people, but that is not the point.  All the author is trying to do is to study them as an outsider in their environment, like an anthropologist.With that in mind, I found I learned a lot.  From the thankless waitressing jobs at crummy restaurants to the dreary life-passing-before-the-eyes repetition of Wal-Mart shirt restocking, this book reaffirmed my belief that everyone deserves respect.I never realized how impossible it was for low-income workers to get an apartment because they had no savings for the month in advance rent required.  Or how they are then forced to blow their money on motel rooms which can cost double an apartment's rent or even more!I never gave a thought to how just not having a car can force you to stick with a job that others would drop in a second.Or how the lack of respect shown by employers can hurt as much or more than the low wages.What does it really mean to not have health insurance when you are breaking your back at a low-pay high labor job? (Of COURSE this is obvious, but as someone who doesn't suffer these tribulations I was ignorant of the true cost -do you eat this weekend or do you go to the doctor? If you don't go to work today you don't have rent for tomorrow.)How can you pick up a donation of food during work hours when you are working 10 hours a day -every day?All I know is that I left this book with more respect for people, and more chagrin at those who treat those with crummy jobs as if they somehow &quot;deserve&quot; the work they are doing.A book that teaches you something is a book to be remembered.  Highly Recommended.
5	1068940800	Barbara Ehrenreich came down from the ivory tower of academia and lived the life of the working poor. She knows what you know --- that millions of Americans work very hard for very little money --- and she was willing to document it by becoming a waitress, a house-cleaner, and a WalMart employee. Along the way, she learned about going hungry, uncompensated labor, the paranoia of employers over unions, and why so many poor people with jobs can't even get adequate housing.She saves the best for last. Anticipating the critics --- &quot;Your evidence is anecdotal!&quot; --- the final chapter gives you all the statistics. The result is like a smack in the face. You can't escape the personal stories OR the numbers.Of course, Ehrenreich can't win. This important study of reality in America will be disregarded because she didn't become a REAL poor person. She *only* did it for a few months. But that's understandable. Many people don't want this story told and they'll do whatever it takes to avoid it. But if you're reading this review, you can probably handle it. Buy this book, read it, and lend it to a friend.
4	1068336000	Hmmmm.I grew up in rural North Carolina and Georgia around all the sorts of people and job situations that the author investigated.She wouldn't last a month if she were really in this sort of situation.As other readers said before, she totally relied on previous money...but her main &quot;shield&quot; to me was that she knew it was all TEMPORARY.  She never faced the dispair of never really having money and not knowing how long such a situation would last.I did appreciate her enlightening the plight of the workers and the housing conditions, but she herself annoyed the heck out of me.  Whining, moaning and groaning about basic work (having been a waitress myself - get over it sister) and being all hoity toity about the jobs that she would even interview for (I mean, hel-lo, if she was truly homeless and out of $$ I don't think she would have been so picky) - it got a little old.But I do think it was a definitely good, although upper-class and social-class prejudiced, read.
4	1068336000	Barbara Ehrenreich, with a Ph.D. and well-paying job in journalism, decides to do some old-fashioned journalism with the help of encouragement from her boss.  She was going to experience life through the unskilled low-wage workers.  She wanted to see how easily she could survive with a job that pays close to 7$ an hour, like the many millions of Americans that have this wage.Through her experiences at three jobs as a waitress, maid, and employee at Wal-mart, she discovered many overlooked things about low-wage workers.  Firstly, she realized that even though you are being paid 7$ an hour, you still have to work very hard.  An educated skilled worker such as herself wasnt able to outstand her co-workers.  Next, getting by on the low-wages was very difficult for her at times.  She had to eat very inexpensive foods and even get free meals sometimes.  She lived in a one-room motel and trailer park which were basically the lowest rent she could find without living in her car.  She concluded that the wages in America were too low.  America needs to realize how severe the living conditions are for the supposedly &quot;unskilled&quot; workers and have to do something about it.I am a 14 year old kid.  I do not recommend this book to other young teens because they have no purpose in reading it.  They can not relate to the topics because they are not trying to find jobs.  I would, however, recommend this book to adults.  No matter what their position in life they can relate to these topics in someway.  For most, the facts will be interesting and relevant.
2	1067731200	Major rambling ahead ...Ok, I HAD to read this. My university made it the mandatory freshman connections book. This MAY have influenced my opinion on this book's mediocrity, however I do not believe so. I find it hard to take the word of a upper-middle-upper-class yuppie liberal woman who lives in a beach house (don't quote me on that) in Key West regarding conditions of the underclass lifestyle. (Nothing against liberals, just against everything else.) Granted, she did some research, but that research was half-assed at best. She frequently went back into her reserve of money from her 'real' life. She walked out of a fairly decent paying job offer because they wanted to give her a drug test. She seemed to miss the point of the experiment: YOU ARE UNDERCLASS NOW. Real underclass workers do not have the option to turn down a job due to a one-time indignity. (The fact that this drug testing only turns up marijuana, probably one of the tamer illicit substances, is for another debate.)In short, don't buy this. Do read it, though. It does have some interesting facts and situations. Borrow it; I'll send you my copy.
5	1067558400	This book is very informative.  I think that many people should read it because it makes you understand how much effort a low-wage person have to go through to keep on living a reasonable life.  While people that have a lot of time on there hand and making fun of their jobs and their living conditions, they should think how much they do work to mantain their families in good health and keep food on their tables.  I think that everyone should really think about other people than just themselves. I recommend this work to everyone.
4	1067558400	This book opened my eyes to so many things I didn't know.  It has convinced me that our would is in need of some kind of huge social change.  I felt so sorry for each struggling person that Ehrenreich met along her journey, but also angry at our very unfair world.  I think that everyone should read this book and discover for themselves the truth and pain of low-wage America.
4	1067558400	I thought that this was an excellent book. One of the best ways to truly connect with one's readers is if you go out and experience what your writing about for yourself. This is exactly what Ehrenreich does with this book. I think this is an easy to read book that exposes our society for what it really is. This book teaches people who go around judging others a valuable lesson. I learned from this book that our society really does not take into consideration how much work people do and what little they get in return. This book definitely spoke the truth about the way this country works. I would definitely recommend this book to others. Peoople can actually relate to this book, because it touches on issues that people must deal with on a regular bases. I liked the fact that the author took it upon herself to go and research what she wrote about. In my opinion this gave the author some credibility because she experienced what many Americans have to live with everyday. Through this book she teaches others how unfair life is for so many, and yet people walk around judging or not even caring at all.
4	1067558400	i thought this was an excellent book and exposed many interesting things about the working class lifestyle that i was not aware of. while i agreed about most of what ehrenreich said about the inequality of those working minimum wage jobs, she was not realistic about some of the things she complained about. there are typical things within every occupation that one must complete that aren't always fun (i.e., drug tests, certain rules of conduct)and it seemed that she missed the point of that sometimes. i would  have rather learned more about the lives of the other workers she worked with; it would have been more realistic.
4	1067472000	I regularly work in the USA, and when I mentioned this book to 10 or so US colleagues over dinner in Minneapolis, only 1 person had heard of it, which exemplifies the fact that Middle Class America have little consciousness of the realities of the 'slaving classes'.This book does not go into a detailed damnation of the 'system' in the way that 'No Logo' does, but it offers well-written personal recollections of times spent in 3 locations, Florida, Maine &amp; Minneapolis (hence why I asked my dinner companions if they'd heard of it).Even though I consider myself 'socially aware' it gave me further insight into the circumstances of those around me in hotels &amp; restaurants, and reconfirmed my already low opinion of the inequalities in US society.I believe that the US Federal Minimum Wage is $5.15, and hasn't been changed for 6 years (ie since 1997)?; contrast that with the UK Minimum Wage which has been increased every year since its introduction, even if only by 10p/15c per hour, and this last month (October 2003) went up by 7% (30p/50c per hour) to around $7.50.We also have a legal minimum of 20 days Vacation per annum (with 30 being more typical), max working week of 48 hours (with 35-40 being more typical), Sick Leave of 28 weeks (yes weeks, not days) per annum, with a minimum of $20 per day Sick Pay, and in case you think this generosity wrecks the economy, we have a Lower rate of Unemployment than the USA, and also a Lower rate of Inflation than the USA.
4	1067472000	Ehrenreich presents this book as an investigation into the question of whether someone really can get get by in America on the wages of the working poor.  However, the account of her months spent as cheap labor (first as a waitress then as a housecleaner and later a Wal-Mart drone) works best as a simple eye-opener.  To her readers, those who can afford the money and time to buy and read her book, she offers an all too rare glimpse into how millions of our fellow citizens live their lives.Some reviewers have criticized the educated voice in which Ehrenreich tells her story and the reminders that her poverty is only temporary.  I found her eloquence and wit engaging, giving her message a voice it might otherwise have lacked.  Her story becomes most tangible when she drops the mantle of journalistic objectivity and relates her inner thoughts.  When she notices the lady of the house watching her scrub the floor on her hands and knees, she wonders if she'll be recognized from some university lecture she once gave.  Left alone on a late shift in Wal-Mart, she fancies herself the ruler of the ladies' wear section, making the rounds to keep her subjects in line.Similarly, I prefer to commend Ehrenreich's honesty in distinguishing between her experiences and those of the real poor, rather than to accuse her of hypocritical class pride.  Any good researcher is careful to disclose the extent to which their study generalizes to the real world.  However, Ehrenreich experiences don't answer her research question quite as conclusively as she seems to suggest.  True, she had advantages in terms of prior health care and access to a working car, in contrast to many of her peers, and she only barely scraped by.  On the other hand, it's no coincidence that very few of her new coworkers live alone; they rely on a support network of friends and family that Ehrenreich scrupulously tries to avoid.  Of course, this observation hardly invalidates Ehrenreich's other points.The bottom line?  If you don't believe that the disparity between rich and poor is so large, take a look at the lifestyle portrayed in any primetime sitcom, and then read this book.
5	1067385600	I think that Nickel and Dimed is a well-written, good book.  It points out the problems in today's society concerning poverty and how people are forced to deal with low wages and high rent day to day.  I agree with Ehrenreich that this is a huge problem and that something has to be done.  I am glad that authors like her are not afraid to point out the problems with society.  I believe that the more people who speak their minds, the more society will change its views.  This book does an excellent job in pointing out today's issues with poverty in an attempt to change people's views.
4	1067385600	Barbara's tales of her experiences in the low-wage world were quite interesting to me.  Particularly, the process of gaining employment told me things that I did not know.  The psychological profiling tests are something that I have not encountered, even though I earned some quite low wages in my youth.  It was clear that the hiring companies were trying to address the problems of bad behavior among employees with the attempts at total mind control attempted in these tests.  Good goals, but bad execution.As I read through the book, I became more and more frustrated with Ms. Ehrenreich's anti-Christian hostility.  Seemingly out-of-the-blue, she would begin these tangential, non-sequitur attacks on Christianity.  The link between these pathological attacks and the story line were weak or non-existant.  While I enjoyed the main story, these irritating asides were like cockroaches in my casserole, and I wish she had the self-control to voice her tangential peeves elsewhere.Barbara's insecurities were also evident in her frequent reminders that she was only pretending to be a low wage worker.  The reminders took the form of consultations with her dematologist for a rash, and the use of &quot;50-cent&quot; words like &quot;glossolalia&quot;.  She really didn't want us to forget that she was better than her temporary environment.Those criticisms aside, the book did open my eyes to the situation with people like the Wal-Mart workers.  Hers is not the first thing I have read that speaks ill of the way that they are paid and treated.  This book has me reconsidering my shopping habits.  Low prices are great, but not when the discounts are sucked out of poor workers.I think something was lost by Barbara retaining her car.  That is a major cost item for most low-wage earners, and it detracts from the validity of her experience to retain such a large advantage.Her choice to become a maid and a retirement center worker were good ones.  Both of those jobs give a very blunt introduction to a life of difficulty.  These portions of the book were the ones that interested me the most.  Long hours and bodily aches are something I have experienced, and what she described sounded very real.  These were very revealing.Overall, the book is one I enjoyed.  I'm glad that I read it.  If she had removed the big, hairy wart of her anti-Christian hostility, I might have actually recommended this book to others.
4	1067299200	In my personal opinion Nickel and Dimed was a well-written book .The book is worth reading it especially for the ones who doesn't know how to handle money in life. The book gives some information about the way money is handled in life. After I finished reading the book, I just realized that nothing changed; I mean employers are still getting a low wage. It's not that I didn't like the book but I think we should put some of our thoughts in action. However, I definitely agree what Ehrenreich highlights in her book that on getting nothing in America, which is really hard to survive in life, if we do have a low wage jobs. I really enjoyed reading the book and Ehrenreich really did a good job on it because nobody who lives a life of luxury will challenge in a situation like this.
3	1067299200	I just finished &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; by Barbara Ehrenreich, and it was an okay book, but not as good as I'd hoped. The ads and reviews on it made it sound like a groundbreaking work on the 'reality of living at minimum wage,' but it really wasn't. The majority of the book is a series of anecdotes--one per chapter--of how she lived for a month in a given location and tried to find food, housing, and basic necessities while working at a low-wage job. (&quot;My 24 Hours in Wolfland&quot;) Sounds like an interesting experiment, right? But it's really just one-sided war stories, and the whole thing comes off as too artificial to carry any real weight. To her credit, Ehrenreich acknowledges that her experience was not a &quot;real&quot; one--after all, she always knew she could go back to her cushy white-collar life any time she wanted--, and she even notes that she had several advantages not available to most working-class types: race, education, good health, no dependents, and so on. The implicit conclusion is supposed to be that if SHE had it so tough making ends meet (even with all her advantages of being a white, educated, English-speaking woman in good health with no kids), then imagine how much worse things have to be for everyone else in those positions.It makes an okay point in that direction, halfheartedly, but her &quot;experiment&quot; is just so flawed that you can't attach any real meaning to it. Yes, her experience is skewed, but not just in one direction. For example, Ehrenreich lives for exactly one month in each location. Not long enough to establish any ties, a network of friends, a support group, nothing. She doesn't run into any typical &quot;emergency expense&quot; situations that would be bound to occur over periods longer than a month--medical expenses and car repairs being two obvious examples. She has no dependents, but also no roommate or live-in partner to share expenses and &quot;cover&quot; for each other's schedules. And so on. Reading through her adventures, I couldn't shake the impression of a pith-helmeted British explorer on safari in India. She was immersed in the environment of blue-collar/minimum-wage living, but she remained apart from it in all the most important ways. Despite being hip-deep in the setting, she was still on the outside looking in.The concluding chapter was also a surprise... it had no real conclusions. The ending was quite abrupt, amounting to little more than &quot;Hopefully, things will change. The End.&quot; If you like immersing yourself in someone else's storytelling style and getting short glimpses of a parade of minor characters, this is an okay book. If you're looking for dramatic revelations and important conclusions about our society, I'm afraid you'll have to go elsewhere. This is more travelogue than expose'.
2	1066953600	I was very excited to read this book, but I must admit, the whole concept is very misrepresented.  I thought I would be reading a down and dirty tale of how people make it (i.e. reading about their emotions, their war stories, their fears, their life style, etc.)It's one thing to throw on a Hawaiian shirt and flip flops and be able to fit in at a Luau themed party.  However, it's another to pretend to be poor.  Does the author really expect us to take her word because she walked in these people's shoes for a little over 2 months?  She treats being poor like a summer fling, or better yet, a summer job.  Being poor isn't an experiment.  In some cases, the shell of poverty can be generations thick.The premise is a complete joke.  Work a lower wage job and try to keep a budget.  Sounds great, but here are all the asteriks:  she starts off with a nest egg and functioning car, she barely stays in one place long enough to allow residual expenses (i.e. medical, miscellaneous, car problems, etc.), and lastly, if she gets bored or rubbed the wrong way, she quits.  I got news for you lady, if 95% of us had the opportunity (and your case financial backing and real job to fall back on) to quit every time we were bored or rubbed the wrong way, we would.  And that goes for people in every tax bracket.  The difference is we are living in the real world, not conducting a fun little experiment.  We work because we have to work, whether it's for our own well being or for the support of others.I did enjoy the writing and observations (that's the only reason it got 2 stars), but not in the context presented.  I found myself laughing out loud on a number of occasions, particularly the restaurant and maid chapters.  That being said, I think her approach is the problem.  If she would have approached this traditionally and simply interviewed &quot;poor people&quot; then wrote about her observations and their stories, direct from their mouths, I would have given this book 4 or 5 stars.  But the fact that she tries to sell this as &quot;look at me, I was poor for 2 months, and now I'm going to tell you how bad it is.&quot;If you're looking for a good read by an author who isn't afraid to get dirty and paints all sides of the fence, read &quot;Confederates in the Attic,&quot; by Tony Horwitz.  Although the subject matters are completely unrelated, it is a great example of investigative journalism that seeks to inform on a state of mind and life style.
4	1066953600	This is the saddening story of a middle class person's attempt to &quot;live poor.&quot;  The author gives up her normal life to try to make it on the wages that most poor people make while trying to live in the type of housing that the poor are forced to live in.  She does this three times in three different places.  Each time she fails (or concludes that one could not get ahead).  The problems she encounters include finding affordable housing, paying for food and clothing, and finally paying for healthcare (even if it is over the counter stuff).  She finds the ordeal very trying and needs to &quot;cheat&quot; a couple of times by going back to her real home for a night.  The fact that an educated person with every advantage couldn't make it, is a very stong statement as to how difficult the poor in this country have it.  I don't think this book is meant to speak for the poor, rather I think it is meant to give the middle class a glance into how difficult the poor have today.  If nothing else this book might help dispel some of the typical stereotypes about the poor.
4	1066780800	Initially, in the beginning I was disappointed with the way the book read.  Perhaps I was expecting something more formal? But I continued to read anyway, telling myself that since the author's writing style was lively, colorful, and certainly not boring, perhaps I would be rewarded with an interesting tale at the very least.But it is more than just an interesting tale. What is to be said if a white, educated, childless woman can barely make it in today's low wage working world where millions find themselves today?Instead of giving the reader some dry statistical overview of the plight of today's working poor, Ehrenreich manages to take us through the experience, one dismal and unrewarding job to another. But she has a sense of humor that will be sure to produce a chuckle as she sums up the low wage corporate experience in her expressive writing style.Many things are disturbing, the lack of affordable housing on a minimum wage, where even a nutritious meal is a luxury, which was the case with many of her co-workers who struggle it seems just to survive on the bare minimum.Even if we assume the worst, that the author's sole purpose for going on her temporary sojourn to poverty was simply for the selfish reason to produce a book, you would have a hard time convincing me that she did not come away from her experience without some sort of empathy and appreciation for the plight of these overworked and underpaid people.Nor does she merely relate her experiences and then end it, but continues on with an evaluation at the end that is meant to hopefully enlighten the more fortunate among us to the national plight that some large corporations are not really our friend... not in the job market anyway, and why it is so hard for most to `break out' of their low wage prison.Overall I give it 4 stars. The author should be credited with trying to give a voice to those who perhaps have none and give some insight as to what the reality is for millions who are honest hardworking people who didn't get a break in life, and who perhaps never will.
5	1066089600	Differing upon my initial expectation of a scientific investigation into 'middle income'  poverty( &quot;The High price of Materialism &quot; ,  &quot;Affluenza&quot; , &quot;The Overworked American&quot;, or &quot;The Overspent American&quot; )the book, &quot;Nickel and Dimed &quot; was a highly emotional personal experience for me. Ehrenreich took away thetechnical analysis that I am so comfortable with and put a confronting reality in front of me.Moved by the story, I asked the first food service person I met at a local restaurant. Bingo!The service worker or shall I say slave worker was just getting back to work after having broken her wrist where she then waslaid off from work because she was unable to work and of course unable to pay for the medical needs ... the story goes on and on.
1	1065744000	Boy, where do I start?  I live in a similar social class to the author. The author takes us through her search to find affordable housing while holding a minimum wage job.  However, she cheats several times along the way.  She resorts to advantages of her &quot;real&quot; life along the way.  One of the biggest issues of the minimum wage worker seemed to be in the area of heathcare as she discovered in the &quot;maids&quot; chapter.  Instead of the author finding out how the minimum wage worker goes about getting heathcare when she herself gets a rash, she cowardly calls her doctor back in FL and has a prescription called in.She seems to play with people's feelings, trys to be the martyr by getting people to stand up when she herself goes back to her $20,000 alone in interest home.It sickens me that she has made money off of this book.  Curious, did she donate any of her money to the people that she befriended and gave her &quot;insight&quot; and research into her book?The conclusions she draws at the end are frighteningly obvious.  The only real plus of the book is that it did give me new appreciation for how hard the minimum wage work has to struggle just to get by.  What suggestions does she has for changes?
2	1065484800	This lady apparently passed herself off as a &quot;trailer trash&quot; to write this book about how poorer people live in America. This kind of experiment is all very well, but it seems a bit too easy to me. Surely we'd get more interesting results if it was done the other way round? Why don't any members of the working poor write a book about their experiences as, say, a highly paid academic researcher or manager of a large company? This would provide far more worthwhile insights than this book probably does. People are tired of hearing about poverty anyway, and would rather read about the humourous situations that could arise from a genuine &quot;trailer trash&quot; out of place in the corporate boardrooms of the big end of town, or comically stumbling around the big ivory towers of academia. It could then be made into a moving &quot;fish out of water&quot; comedy film with heart starring Tom Hanks. If this author doesn't want to end up as a genuine &quot;trailer trash&quot;, they should give more consideration to the economic viability of the books they write.
5	1065312000	This is a great book.  For everyone that works in a minumum wage environment, this book will really hit home.  I don't earn minumum wage, but I'm not far off of it.  While reading this book, I was struck not so much by how hard it is to survive on so little money, but the humanity of the people featured.  This could be because most of it I experience in my day-to-day life also, who knows?  Either way I was impresed by stories behind the millions of people that we meet everyday that we never really pay attention to.  For me, that was what I walked away from the book with, and why I truely enjoyed this book so much.
3	1065225600	Okay. Hrm. Flame suit on? Check. Here we go.I liked it... sort of. Well, I like the author. Honestly I do. I feel she made some excellent and necessary discoveries. I'm still for welfare reform, but I strongly agree with what she says about how poverty can feed into itself and helplessly grow if there isn't a way to jump-start a person to a certain baseline that isn't taking two days of pay for every one day of work.Her disclosures on pay being withheld, the expenses job applicants incur for those routine (and apparently ineffective) drug tests, employees not being allowed to stand still for even a minute just because it looks unproductive (yep, been to that rodeo myself), the many ways finding housing means more than having money for rent, and the insight into what a (literally) filthy job those nationwide housekeeping companies are doing was all interesting.What I didn't like was that the research was half-done over and over again. I know she acknowledges this - laments it, even - and that's one reason I like her. But, when you're talking about an experiment in living in poverty, then talk about now and again going back to your lovely Key West home to spend the night and mess with email and put five bucks in the jar for a scrummy dinner from that lovely Key West kitchen, the book takes an unfortunate turn, even more than the (thankfully) brief unfortunate turn it took when she launched into snobbery against those who own decorative antique books.(Okay Ms. Ehrenreich, who are you to assume that people are being pretentious based on some of their most unassuming decor? Why not pass judgement on people who pay for plaid shelf liner instead of plain? Yeah, I admit it - my mother owns decorative antique books - yes, bought in bulk and no, probably never will be read thanks to glaucoma and long hours at the office - but she still genuinely enjoys them. Who are you to say how she must do that?And then you pick on people for displaying certificates and other whatnots of personal achievement, like they're missing The Big Picture... I guess if you came to clean my house and noticed my book prominently displayed on the counter, you'd think I was the most arrogant of snobs when really it sits there out of a sense of my own pure silly happiness to finally have the little sentimental thing published. But no, until poverty is solved, we're to downplay any material joys. *That's* what's chafing even those of us who are far from rich or right-winged. Your housekeeping teammates had a much better perspective when they enjoyed other people's trappings as something to aspire to, not judge and resent.)I can easily handle that Ehrenreich doesn't have to factor kids into the equation, that she has a well-maintained car, that she might call her dermatologist and get a weird rash solved right away without dipping into the budget, even that she has constant Internet access helping her guide her decisions... but there were too many &quot;I know I couldn't get away with this if I were *really* poor&quot;-type situations. Why couldn't she do it properly? I don't care that the message is still valid: IT'S INEXPLICABLY SHODDY RESEARCH.And then, in the end, she pines at length for the union she might have started at Wal-Mart if only she had more time. I was expecting an unhappy ending - this *is* a book about a bad situation that few are successfully hopping to fix - but I didn't know said unhappy ending would be author-generated. I'm not anti-union per se, but her &quot;solution&quot; is as overly-simplistic as the ones dreamt up by those who think that poverty can be instantly cured with a steady job.Again, I like the author, but the book is an apologetic &quot;could've been.&quot; While I appreciated the glimpse of enlightenment and enjoyed her easy humour and - to be fair despite my above rant - minimal sermonizing, this project would have done a much better job of preaching to those not already in the choir if the research had been more credibly executed. If we really care, let's have a do-over.
2	1064966400	I had this book on my 'to-read' list for several years now... I was initially interested because a similar but much more honest author in the United Kingdom undertook a very similar investigation (Below the Breadline: Living on the Minimum Wageby Fran Abrams). At the time it was more socially relevant to me because I was living in the UK - but since I'm back in the States Barbara's book seemed worth a try.Ultimately - I did not expect to walk away with a new-found understanding of the economic underclass... what I was interested in was how Ehrenreich would feel in the role. The disappointingly arrogant view of her new self-inflicted world was somewhat surprising.The book was stretched out - more padding then true insights... but the &quot;Evaluation&quot; was the real Ehrenreich unleashed...This book may have been slightly more eye-opening to the clueless in 2000-2001 - but by 2003 if you haven't heard enough about recession, job loss and the working poor then you should stick to 'Green Eggs and Ham' for literary fodder. We are led to believe that somehow this book will (or at the very least 'should') make some kind of impact. Not a chance. Not when the investigative author herself culminates with the thought that in actuality the poor are making conscience and heartfelt sacrifices for the wealthy everyday by working substandard jobs -and we should respect them for this. So ultimately - she is saying the poor choose to be poor. She didn't learn a thing.
5	1064966400	I can't believe the sheer abuse and misrepresentations being put forward by conservative reviewers of this book.  The complaints seem to fall into the following categories.1 - Miss Ehrenreich lied to her co-workers about her real intentions2 - She cheated and didn't put herself at risk by sleeping rough when she had to3 - She's a liberal4 - She says that the poor choose to be poor1 This was an undercover operation.  HellooOOoo?  Telling her employers her real intentions would have prevented her from getting hired, and telling her co-workers the truth would have affected their behaviour.  Honesty in that regard would have prevented the experiment from taking place in the first place or skewed the results.2 The fact that she occasionally had to resort to her credit card to get by, and relied on an initial cash lump sum to pay for her first month's rent, (something she admitted she hadn't though of before) only serve to underscore the conclusion of the book.  Corporate America does not pay its low-level workers enough to get by on.  That she made a decision to not put her safety at risk is neither here nor there.3 The word 'liberal' seems to have become appropriated by the right as a term of abuse these days.  No need to say anything about that really.4 I have no idea where this upside-down inside-out conclusion comes from.  It certainly didn't come from the book that I read.  I read about how tax-cuts for the rich and inadequate incentives for affordable housing construction are the primary weapon in the conservative right's war on the poor.I take my hat off to Miss Ehrenreich for her bravery in voluntarily going without the creature comforts that certain people wouldn't dream of abandoning.  I also applaud her honesty in expressing her guilt for feeling frustrated by the lack of willingness among her co-workers to stick up for themselves.  It was very insightful to see how she ended up succumbing to the same humble posture when enough pressure was put on her.  She also describes the forces that were far beyond their control acting on workers, and why they didn't dare to speak out for fear of being fired.  She also expressed guilt for making a few careless remarks that could be construed as contemptuous.The anecdotal approach makes this very easy to read.  It also serves as a good backdrop for the well-researched social commentary that comes complete with reliable sources cited.  The fact that conservatives are tearing this book apart can only mean that it has achieved what it set out to do.  The truth hurts.
3	1064793600	Fascinating book i had been trying to read for a while; it took going to hospital for surgery to actually finish it ~ wonder if that means anything?  It was similar to the book i expected to read, though not quite the same.  I had, with all the blurb and publicity about Ehrenreich's activity, expected to see her take several minimum wage type jobs over several areas of the country, and see if she was able to survive ~ or, rather, to what extent she was not able to survive, since i already knew that she didn't.  What i was not prepared for was the slipperiness with which Ehrenreich approached her self-set task.  In no way, as she reports it, did she make an honest attempt to live within the means she was able to raise:  At one point she declined lodging a woman truly in her position would have had to take; at other points she mentions spending money on, at the least, unnecessary meals out.I was also surprised by the ease with which Ehrenreich slipped in and out of dishonesty; perhaps it is a necessary corollary to the deception which underlies the book as a whole.  Some smaller examples:  Ehrenreich states that she certainly is &quot;not working an eleven hour shift, not without time and a half after eight&quot; though she must know (her footnote implies it) that there is no law compelling extra pay for hours per day ~ it is hours per week that count.  In Maine Ehrenreich and her group loudly and obnoxiously cruise the neighbourhood in their company car, clearly not the purpose for which it was given them.  Perhaps by the time she got to Minnesota and the selling at Wal-Mart she was getting tired of what she was doing; that is surely the kindly way to look at her behaviour because, by her own account, she did not give Wal-Mart value for the money they paid her.  Instead, she set about trying to be disruptive from within ~ a highly dishonest activity.Like many of a liberal bent, Ehrenreich seems to have that very convenient ethic that the end justifies the means, and if anyone ~ especially anyone who thinks differently or has &quot;too much&quot; money ~ is hurt in the process, oh well.  I find that my ethic will not permit me to have such an openly contemptuous view of morality, and for that reason if no other, have to reject Ehrenreich's activities and, until such a thing can be done properly, her results.
1	1064361600	A middle-class WASP that goes slumming and discovers that the getto inhabitants have a hard time. Very surprising.I'm an old &quot;white-trash made good&quot; boy, and this must be the most insulting book I ever read about being at the bottom parts of society. I mean, she doesn't even try to hide her extreme prejudices against the trash.Don't insult your intelligence by reading this (unless you're a WASP, of course).
5	1064275200	Nickle and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich, is the most intellectual book I have ever read. It's all about a woman in a  difficult world to live in. Having to make so many sacrifices to buy her needs and wants in her life. It's not a book about fairy tales or fiction, but about real life and real people. Everything she describes about her work is not only describing herself but people around the world as well. Coming from a luxurious world to a spartan lifestyle, Ehrenreich struggles to earn money,find a job and a home as well. She describes the events that happen in her work place which is not at all great. She informs us, the readers, about how tough it is for her fellow co-workers to survive in an inadequate environment. What is so great about this book is that it does not make up stories about a lonely woman meeting a perfect guy and live happily ever after(for example). Instead it talks about real life issues and how it effects the economy. When people talk about the economy going from prosperity, recession, depression and recovery, this novel shows us that it does not work this way with everyone. The population still struggles no matter what level the government says it is. We, the people, still have to make so many sacrifices to provide not only for ourselves but for our family too. Ehrenreich explains that much and even more. She describes a lot of people in this novel. From the south to the north, and the east to the west. Many people have to spend money for food, shelter, and clothes. If you include bills, you can imagine how much that is.This is why I give this novel what it truly deserves,5 stars. I f I could i would give it eight, for being so enlightning.
5	1064188800	What working hard and getting nothing back is really all about?Barbara Ehrenreich's overall view on the low wage working life is nothing but truth.  As a member of a low wage-working group, I can tell and agree with all the ideas that are portrayed in Nickel and Dimed.  Working hard and getting almost nothing back is a hard thing to do.  But it is a reality that workers now in days have to go through in order to make it in the US.  To me it is not shocking to hear about all kind of thins that workers have to go through in order to get things done for the people in wealth.  Living in a world like this getting paid $5.50 to $7.00 an hour is almost impossible if you have children or if you are on your own but have to pay rent or other expenses such as car insurance and other unnecessary things.  To get through in this world in a low wage job you have to have at least two jobs in order to survive this world.  I wish someone could do something about it and help out the people who work assiduously and get paid almost nothing.  Maybe this book will make a contribution and open people's minds to help the low wage-working group.  If it can open someone's eyes then I guess in sometime it will open other people too.
3	1063238400	This book is great at providing a glimpse into what life would be like working full-time at some of the worst jobs out there: as a maid, Wal-Mart salesperson, etc.  However, most people probably have some experience with crappy minimum-wage jobs back in high school.  If you've forgotten how bad those jobs were or have never worked one, I highly recommend this book.Beyond that, I'm not sure how useful the book is.  The author purposefully seeks out the worst jobs, which of course she will find.  For example, she leaves a waitressing job to seek out a job as a hotel maid.  Anyone with an ounce of common sense would work their way up in waitressing to better, higher-tipping restaurants.  Everyone knows that being a hotel maid is one of the worst jobs out there, but she is dedicated to working as one.If anyone purposefully seeks substandard jobs, it's not especially surprising that they will find them and that they're going to be quite bad.  I think a better issue to explore would be why people end up in these jobs.The author also tries to portray these jobs as challenging and deserving of respect.  If these jobs are equally challenging, but pay virtually nil, that again raises the issue of why people end up in these jobs.On the other hand, there are real people working these jobs full-time beyond their high school years.  They are human beings and we should empathize with them.  A lot of them probably were trapped in these jobs because they made mistakes in their youth, and now they have no free time to get an education or otherwise improve themselves.I for one would like to know the "why" of their low socioeconomic positions.  I would also think that education or similar self-improvement would do them better than something like unionizing, which would probably only increase their pay a few dollars per hour.Basically, I thought the book was a good look at the lower rungs of the social strata, but it left a lot unsaid.
2	1063065600	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America, written by Barbara Ehrenreich, is a well-written book. However, this book should only be used just for the basics to learn about those who work at low-paying jobs.  This book does not cover the major and fastest growing of poor people, which is working single mothers who work at the low-paying jobs. Since the welfare reform of 1996 a lot of mothers are working at some of these low-paying jobs that Barbara Ehrenreich has based her research on. I wonder how those mothers get by. If Ehrenreich have done a section on that, then the readers who have gotten a more of a perspective on what is really going on. She could have based her research on interviews of single working mothers who have kids to support.
5	1062806400	Barbara Ehrenreich  is quite honest in the book both about who she is and where she comes from and also about the limitations of her project.  Despite several rather prejudiced comments ( this book is very honest) which have left many readers cold the book is an accurate portrayal of life at and near minimum wage ( or less).  One may be able to get by on less but only by effectively becoming a bum.  Ms Ehrenreich makes no attempt to hide her own feelings about either the situations or the people and she makes no attempt of any kind to justify or apologize for her background or feelings.  Those who are bothered by total honesty from another person will probably not like this book.  Also, in the last chapter and in several other places Ms. Ehrenreich's lack of knowledge of economics is apparent.  The opinions she expresses on how best to remedy the situation are almost certainly useless.  But that is the point of the book: if she is wrong what is the correct solution?  The book is really an attempt to get a dialog going.  Unfortunately, this attempt  will fail just as surely as others in the past.  At least she got a lot of people thinking about the subject.  One more thing - whenever raising the minimum wage comes up employers are fond of pointing out that most people working minimum wage jobs are young people using them as starting positions and jumping stones to better paying jobs.  This book gives the lie to that notion.
2	1062806400	Working for $7.00 per hour or minimum wage was never meant to sustain a middle income lifestyle.  Minimum wage is a start, but the most important thing to do is to obtain a formal education.  If you are smart and poor and can prove yourself academically, you can get a scholarship.  Take one step at a time and you will climb.  We live in America -- don't ever think you have to settle for $7.00 per hour.  The author exposes problems within our society, but there have been problems since the colonial era and will continue to be problems.  As long as we are progressing as a country, the bar will be raised higher and higher for individual achievement.  Americans should get off their laurels.Freedom is not free!!!
5	1062547200	This stunning book learns us that 60 (sixty) % of the US working class doesn't earn a 'living' wage as determined by the Economic Policy Institute (14$/h for a family of 1 adult and 2 children).Barbara Ehrenreich's 'life' investigation of the millions of US citizens who earn half of that, is a real shocker. It is the story of a daily desperate struggle for survival without normal housing, food or childcare, as well as no civil rights during the working shift.As the author brutally states: the aim is that those people surrender their self-respect.Into the bargain, 'the poor have disappeared from the culture at large, from political rhetoric, from daily entertainment, from religion'. Indeed, the moneylenders got Jesus out of the temple.While in fact, as Barbara Ehrenreich rightly remarks, 'the working poor are the major philantropists of our society ... they neglect their own children, so that the children of others will be cared for; they live in substandard housing so that others will be shiny; they endure privation so that inflation will be low and stock prices high ... they give, and give ...'(p.221)What is also astounding is the resignation of the gross majority of the underpaid; no revolt, no reactions of discontent.All in all, this book poses the question of human dignity which the most powerful nation in the world cannot give to a big chunk of its population. A fact that the glittering powerful (and the media they control) conceal from the rest of the world. A shame.An important and revealing report about a hidden aspect of the US society.A must read.
4	1062547200	Aside from the fact that I began to wonder if the author was actually stoned when she wrote the book (she made references to this), this was a fairly good book.Barbara Ehrenreich sets out to prove that working for minimum wage in the US while trying to eat & have a roof over your head is extremely difficult.  Frequently, she'll scour the want ads only to realize that these companies aren't actually hiring, they're just want to be able to have applications on hand if/when someone quits.  Finding a place to live was no easy task either.  When you're working for [money amount]/hour it's pretty difficult to come up with first & last months rent, even though, I feel, that the author cheated somewhat because she brought her savings with her so that she could afford the first & last.  Some of the work conditions are rather ignorant.  No meal breaks, no talking with other employees, no standing around, etc...  It's unfortunate that a lot of people don't have the option to quit and go to some better job.
5	1062374400	Barbara Ehrenreich's investigative report from the low-wage heartland of America is an eye-opener.  Prompted by wondering what it would be like to live on minimum wage, she set out to actually try and do so.  Although her journey was relatively short, as she worked intermittently at six jobs over a period of two years and always had the option of returning to her upper-middle class life, or dipping into cash reserves should it become absolutely necessary, Ehrenreich nevertheless presents a convincing picture of life at the bottom end of the job market.That picture is not pretty.  Working hours are long, the work is tedious and tiring, the pay is abysmal and management is relentless in its demands.  Discipline is much stricter than in many white-collar jobs, where employees are free to socialize, run minor errands, surf the Net and so on, without having to keep a weather eye out for the manager if you are talking to a co-worker for thirty seconds or if you have to do something important like make a call to try and find accommodation.  In addition to their other disciplinarian foibles, many employers seem to have developed an unhealthy dependence on drug-testing.  While this might be justifiable for jobs which involve serious risks, such  as air traffic control, it is hard to see why it is required for waitressing or selling plumbing equipment.  A more significant cause of lost productivity is probably sleep deprivation, especially for workers who have to hold down two jobs to make ends meet, but this is one issue that does not seem to be on anyone's radar screen.On the other hand, many workers are able to avoid the risks of driving while underslept or under the influence, by the simple expedient of not having a car.  For those without wheels the sparse distribution of public transit combined with urban sprawl and the tendency of cheap accommodation to be far removed from most places of employment not only make getting to work a daily struggle but also represent a serious obstacle to checking out or accepting other employment opportunities.  For those who can't stand the idea of losing mobility there is always the alternative: give up the apartment and sleep in your car.On top of this, it is almost impossible to save money on low wages.  One consequence is that many workers cannot save enough for the deposit on an apartment and are reduced to living in decrepit motels, which are actually more expensive in the long run.  Saving for retirement, or any other purpose, is out of the question.  So are sick days.  One of Ehrenreich's co-housemaids soldiers on with a possible broken ankle for fear of missing a day's pay.  While America's patchwork medical safety net may catch those with life-threatening conditions, those with lesser but still serious ailments, and their concomitant expenses, are left on their own.  Diet is another problem.  Much cheap food is processed crap, loaded with fat and sugar but of low nutritional value.  This includes the food aid Ehrenreich receives from one charitable agency.  Since many motel-living workers lack fridges and stoves, storing and preparing the constituents of an adequate diet are much more difficult than they are for everyone else.  Some workers put in a full shift - or more - fuelled by nothing but snack food.The core problem for the low-wage worker, however, is the lack of affordable housing.  Rent, as Ehrenreich puts it, is the deal-breaker.  While a Spartan lifestyle in other respects might be maintained on minimum wage, the level of rents constantly threatens to push people - people with full-time jobs - into food banks or homelessness.Ehrenreich has a writer's eye for detail and a strong sense of irony.  It should also be noted that, while not heroic, it does take a modest amount of grit for a fifty-something woman to leave a comfortable life and travel alone to strange cities to start out in minimum wage work.  She is sympathetic and respectful to her co-workers and a scrupulous observer of her own responses to the various problems and surprises she encounters.  While it is clear where her own political sympathies lie, she generally lets the facts speak for themselves.  The story they tell is miserable enough.  For all the rhetoric that is sometimes heard about the redeeming value of work, the reality is that this kind of labour is nothing but a grind, offering not deferred gratification for the sake of some future reward but simply the opportunity to exhaust oneself again tomorrow, with the prospect of a better life exactly as distant as it was yesterday.With regard to the big picture, including solutions, Ehrenreich says relatively little.  Clearly management has labour over a barrel.  Low-wage workers are expendable because they can be so easily replaced.  Immigration is an obvious issue here, and so is education, although  Ehrenreich doesn't discuss either.  But she does home in on the striking, almost catatonic state of political apathy of lower wage workers.  There are a lot of them - almost two thirds of the workforce earn less than $15 an hour, and a third make under $9.  Given America's low voter turnout, even a fraction of such a group would form a formidable bloc.  And it is not as if it is impossible to organize.  Politicians live in desperate fear of seniors, for example, because they mobilize so effectively around their key issues.  Yet the working poor fight their battles on their own, it seems, often blaming themselves for their failure to live up to the standards set by management, and largely without unions, church organizations or societies of any other kind.  This is in part a matter of a deeper social isolation and atomization in American life.  Certainly, liberal benevolence alone will not improve the lives of America's working poor.  Whether the widening gap in wealth and the hardship of life at the bottom will awaken a sleeping giant remains to be seen.
2	1061683200	First, the good things. Ms. Ehrenreich is a good writer. She tells a great story and I was absorbed by the narrative. A real page-turner. She is also a good journalist. The applause she gives herself at the beginning of the "Evaluation" chapter is certainly well-deserved. For a gal in her 50s, she definitely did "hold her own" in some tough jobs amongst the "youngsters". She conveyed the stories of a lot of lower income people in an authentic way (I've held nearly all the jobs she studies).  She tells an important story about what it's like to "rough it" on dirt wages, of not coming from wealth and  really having to bust your butt and sometimes be flat busted.But she falls short of being compelling.I appreciate her thorough disclaimers that she is not really claiming she is/was an authentic low-wage earner. She does a good job of pointing out the "Heidegger's Principle" dilemma of doing a book like this. But after that, she truly cuts a bourgeois shine. I actually dropped my jaw on a few occasions. Start with page 8, first paragraph, where she states "I have been asked by acquaintances whether the people I worked with couldn't, uh, *tell* -- the supposition being that an educated person is ineradicably different, and in a superior direction, from your workaday drones." What???? Or perhaps "they" just didn't care? Certainly there are differences based on traditional education. But "workaday drones"? She uses this kind of belittling prattle constantly -- as if the jobs these people have somehow define who they are.  I thought it was poetic justice when, upon revealing that she was their working-class hero in disguise, the response, as she describes it, was anticlimactic.In terms of the book's thesis ... First, let me state this: Having more money is definitely better than having less money. Being "poor" (a subjective term that is hard to define) to the degree of the people she describes is certainly no fun. I should say that my definition of poverty draws from a more holistic (i.e. worldly) and historical viewpoint than Ms. Ehrenreich's seems to. There is absolute poverty and there is relative poverty.  Poverty in the United States, for example, is relatively FAR, FAR less worse than poverty in other parts of the world. I'm "relatively" impoverished if, let's say, everyone in my neighborhood has air conditioning and screens in their windows but I do not. Conversely, I would be relatively wealthy, in that exact same situation, compared to some friends I have in Vietnam who do not have windows at all. Put differently, absolute poverty would mean inadequate shelter, food to prevent me from starving or being in incapacitating health, and clothing to shield me from the seasons.From there, Ms. Ehrenreich needs to avoid her wayward ventures into classical economic theory (in the same way that I need to avoid psychology and physics) and start with some better Home Ec 101. For instance:1.  Get rid of the car. For some reason she relegates it to the continuity of story. Dump it. Assume it was a previous asset and use the proceeds for better (more efficient economical) uses. She admits after the fact this might have caused her "mathematics experiment" to work.2.  Stop buying alcohol. Carts full of white wine and beer don't make you look "poor" or "black", as she accuses people of stereotyping in the story. But they DO make you look financially incompetent. Everyone has to have fun -- but she is supposedly emulating people who are trying to make ends meet and that's not, or shouldn't be, in their budget.3.  Stop doing drugs. I nearly fell out of my chair when I found out she had a) smoked pot and b) found herself paying $30 for a "detox" kit. I like to have fun just like the next one -- WHEN THE BILLS ARE PAID. There's a lesson in there somewhere from Marx I do believe. Take care of the functional utilities first, then visit Bacchus.4.  Do shares. Her astonishment at how all her co-workers "did it" is answered by her own inquiry time and time again. They have roommates with whom they share expenses. They often (gasp!) have husbands. That's how you do it on crap wages. That's how I did it. That's how everybody does it.In fairness to her, she did just plop herself down in these situations, which would almost necessitate a vehicle of some sort and would certainly hinder picking up reliable roommates in such a short time. But that's part of the problem with her experiment. It's just not reality.  Even when the "poor" have to move, they rarely do it on a whim -- they ensure support networks are available before striking out. That is known as smart economizing, just like my four gripes above. It's something, consciously or otherwise, that everyone does regardless of income, "class" or race. Some people are certainly smarter about it than others. Admittedly, the more wealth you have accumulated, the more frivolous you can be with your economizing (to a point). And I think that's where Ms. Ehrenreich makes a less than optimal candidate for this research. She makes a mistake of not showing her receipts (which would have made this book much more "scientific"). Not literally the proofs of sale, but a spreadsheet or something that would allow *us*, the reading audience, to determine if she could've made income match expenses. When I find out she is wearing a sleeping mask to bed and worrying with makeup in the mornings, I just can't consider her efforts a legitimate experiment.Find someone who can "keep it real" to do a book like this. There are plenty of people who economize smartly on low, low wages. Such a book would actully be beneficial to the folks she tries to highlight in her book, but it may not be as sexy to her NY Times reading audience.
4	1061251200	This book was fabulous.  The author sets out to study on her own if the average person can make it on minimum wage in this country. The fact that a woman who was financially secure and college educated set out to do this added to the credibility of the book for me. You would expect a person who complains about the working poor is part of that group. This way, the reader may more likely be sympathetic to the plight of the working poor. She also opens the eyes of those ignorant readers who ask, &quot;You don't have to be poor. Why can't they just get a better paying job? This is America, the land of opportunity, why don't they just move up in life?&quot;And it's not a sobering reminder, it's a highly entertaining and humorous story.  If you read this book, you could learn a lot about the working poor, and about yourself.
5	1060646400	This is a terrific social commentary on the state of the American workforce and a severe indictment on the state of American society. It will also shatter all your preconceived notions about low wage earners because Ehrenreich deftly shows that the "working poor" are making an invaluable contribution to society. Through Nickel and Dimed, Ehrenreich has really solidified many of the problems facing the "underclass" of America. She raises many important issues in this book, particularly the disparities that exist between low wage earners and the more affluent middle classes in America.Through her adventures in waitressing in Key West, scrubbing in Maine and retailing in Minnesota we get to see a side of life and a way of living that unfortunately analogous to many Americans. Her story is, at times, funny and heartfelt, but it will also make you sad and angry at the conditions that she's forced to endure. Ehrenreich's style is easy to read and flows well and she has a remarkable sense of humor which will really make you laugh at some of her observations at the jobs she has to do - cleaning toilets of the affluent in Maine is just one example!It's not just the economic gulf that exists in America that will shock you; it's also the way that Corporate America manipulates and belittles their employees and potential employees through creepy personality tests, drug tests and orientations seminars, which are really little more than illegal brainwashing. Ehrenreich also shows the remarkable lack of "choices" that low paid workers have and that getting access to some kind of government assistance, be it food stamps, emergency money etc., getting this access can be fraught with topographical and bureaucratic problems, for example, she has problems getting help in Maine when she really needs it.A low wage earner really need two have two jobs to survive, that is, if you want to be able to eat AND pay the rent. She also presents the economic disparity that exists between rents and wages, as the working poor are gradually being shut out of rental markets - witness her time in Minnesota where vacancies for rent were next to impossible to find. It's also no longer enough to work hard - working hard doesn't guarantee you a life of luxury and comfort and these days you have to have an angle and make money work for you through investments etc. Ehrenreich also stresses the importance of unionism, and that although unions aren't perfect; they are still the only protection that exists between workers and managers. Her time retailing shows the startling disempowerment and non-unionist attitude that many young employees have.Ehrenreich provides no easy solutions to the problem of too-low minimum wages, and she ends up raising more questions than she answers. This is an important book, a powerful story, and a must read for everyone.Michael
5	1060560000	Please, please..if you know of a student who is considering dropping out of school, or considering not attending college, do something kind and buy them this book.  This is what will happen to them.  They will be doomed to a life of minimum-wage jobs, and will never have society's respect.This book is a message to all.  GET SOME SKILLS!
2	1060300800	When I picked up this book, I thought I was in for a treat.  Having read works of actual anthropology dealing with poverty in America (MacLeod's "Ain't No Makin' It," Kozol's "Savage Inequalities"), I was intrigued by the notion of a writer actually joining the lower class and seeing how it all added up.  What I found was a gross parody of the American poverty literature that does more to harm perception of the underclass than to help.The provisions Ehrenreich grants herself instantly make any point she tries to make moot.  The most immediately discrediting advantage she gives herself is use of a car in the cities she works in.  One of the HARDEST parts of being poor is getting to work; many people have to take god-awful jobs simply because the radius of options is directly limited by our countries pitiful public transportation.  Granting yourself a car instantly gives you access to the very best jobs in the area and allows you to dodge the truly horrible low paying jobs.To be frank, the jobs the writer takes are not miserable.  They're not even all that bad.  To make up for this fact, Ehrenreich loads her tale with melodrama and self righteousness.  She speculates that the owners of houses might enjoy knowing that "their floors are cleaned only with the freshest of human tears."  Lest the reader be mislead, she's not being whipped or beaten, she's not working 14 hour days picking berries in the scorching California sun, all she's doing is wiping down floors in air conditioned suburban mansions.  Her regular smattering of Marxist references coupled with the inevitable self-righteous rants she spouts at the end of each of her jobs do little to advance her thesis and much more to ruin her credibility as an impartial researcher.Further, much as she tries to convince the reader how she is truly integrating into the poor lifestyle, Ehrenreich does a shoddy job of making any friends among her co-workers.  She exchanges idle banter at work, but does a very poor job of taking the relationship outside of the workplace and identifying with these people in their real lives.  Once more, where the writer has a chance to soar, she falls flat.Ultimately, Ehrenreich fails at her mission and tries to make up the deficit between reality and fantasy with melodrama.  It's a sad case where I agree with the premise, agree with the conclusion, and totally disagree with her actual research.  Yes, people are working at starvation wages in the US, just not the ones Ehrenreich is working with.  I give "Nickel and Dimed" a generous two stars only on merit of its technically solid though often heavy handed story telling.
4	1060214400	Nickel and Dimed is interesting and entertaining.  The book gives a look into the pink collar ghetto without being condescending or preachy.  It is also an easy read while keeping the reader interested.
3	1060041600	What would it be like to live the life of someone in a lower social class? Are the stereotypes of this lifestyle accurate? Is one's happiness directly corelated to his/her income level?Author Barbara Ehrenreich sets out on an adventurous mission in this book, "Nickel and Dimed". She spends several months working various odd jobs that are normally associated with the working poor, like restaurants, maid service, retail, etc. She explains what it was like to try to make a living in these type of occupations; how the supervisors and other corporate people treated the workers; and how the other workers behaved whom she got to know on the job.One thing I noticed right away is that Ehrenreich intended this as much more than just a book of adventure. This writing has definite political overtones. Ehrenreich seems to think that government should step in, wave its magic wand, and somehow make life better for everyone. She supports rent control, minimum wage increases, and all sorts of government intervention to make the lives of these individuals "less miserable".But are these people really all that miserable? Ehrenreich doesn't show any contempt toward her fellow workers, but she is convinced that they all live sad, pathetic lives and need to be rescued from this existance. I disagree with her on many of her observations. I once worked in restaurants, and I don't agree at all with her synopsis of the lifestyles of food service workers. Yes, there are some who are not happy. But the majority of them realize that low- wage jobs are the place that most everyone starts out and they learn to make the best of it. From my experience in fast- food, I recall having fun with my fellow employees; hosting parties; goofing off at work; joking about things; talking about the future; etc. There was no more sadness there, in the realms of the fast- food industry, then there is where I work right now, where the wages are much higher.I respect Ehrenreich for her ambition to temporarily join the ranks of the working poor and then publish a book about it. But I think the core problem with this book is that Ehrenreich is too far removed from the working poor to make a fair assessment of their plight. She is a member of the upper class, and I think her own social standing blurred her vision to some degree. It made things seem much worse than they really were because the conditions were so different from what she is used to. This book would have been better, and more fair, if the task of living among the working poor had been undertaken by someone closer to that level- like, say, someone currently in the middle class. This type of individual would be closer in rank to the working poor and would be able to make clearer judgements.Overall, this is an average book that definitely has its moments. Ehrenreich is naive and misguided if she really thinks that government is going to magically solve the problems of the working poor. She's also very ignorant of economics and other facts of business and free markets (she makes some really brainless statements about economics and wage rates in one of the chapters). On the other hand, she makes some good points about other issues of our day, like the constituional violation of rights that takes place when employees are subjected to mandatory drug testing.In spite of its occasional stupidity and its obvious political leanings toward government intervention, this is a good book to read. It's fun to read as Ehrenreich roams around the country from job to job, directly experiencing what it's like to scrape out a living, making only sustenance wages. "Nickel and Dimed" reminds us all of the plight of the working poor as they struggle to make ends meet. It's a good read, although a few changes would have made it better.
5	1059868800	Nickel and Dimed is an excellent reference for young minds who might want to reconsider any attempts to make it on their own as a minimum wage employee.Barbara Ehrenreich possibly had a somewhat negative slant with the living conditions endured, but the facts and the numbers speak for themselves, And even from the most optimistic of perspectives, there is no pretty picture that can be painted and that will last.Perhaps the main standout of her experiences is her ordeal in Minnesota, where vacancies for rent are next to impossible to find. Despite an economic boom at the time, the job in retail is paying little, gas prices have skyrocketed, and the best possible living arrangements are for several hundred dollars a month in quarters that do not come close to being in standard condition.Interesting quotes comparing and contrasting the cost of living in the year 2000 with that of the early 1960s are provided, and they state that, over time, a larger portion of the monthly budget has gone to rent and a smaller portion to food.As of late, this book has been under fire for being a required reading for freshmen at UNC-Chapel Hill. Young conservatives from this school have criticized it as being a reference of the liberal media whom they perceive to be carrying out a Marxist agenda to brainwash those who are trying to hold on to American, traditional values.In response to their sentiments, I saw nothing overtly liberal in Nickel and Dimed. In fact, the experiences written about were during the Clinton years, when the economy was robust. To me, Barbara Ehrenreich was merely mentioning that there were hard-working individuals in this country who were being left behind and were not at a vantage point of being able to truly reap the benefits of prosperous times.And besides, which is worse? 1. to tell the truth that there are hard-working people, some of whom are well-educated, that are not receiving decent pay and adequate health insurance, or 2. to give a young adult the notion that a $40000+/ year job, a Lexus, a cell phone with added features, and a dream house are automatic birthrights for the average American citizen?All in all, I found Nickel and Dimed to be a much more engaging read than those boring, academic textbooks I used in my economics classes as an undergraduate.
2	1059868800	I think that Mrs. Ehrenreich has very little appreciation for the fact that our country's poor have as good a lifestyle as they do.  I'm not saying it's easy to work a minimum-wage job and support a family, but perhaps the author could benefit from a comparison with a number of third world countries where the poor are not only literally starving, but also comprise a much larger percentage of the total population.  No society has it perfect, but the United States is doing a DARN good job of providing a high standard of living for its citizens while also forwarding the previously unprecedented idea that anyone has the freedom and the capability to take it upon themselves to better their situation.In short, &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; was fine as a personal story, but it fails as social commentary.  It would have greatly benefitted from a bit more perspective and a bit less agenda.
3	1059868800	In this book, author Ehrenreich takes low-paying jobs in different American cities and describes her experiences, both on the job and at living on her adopted wages.This book is an engaging read.  One feels for the author's fellow workers, and the author makes interesting points.  For example, &quot;unskilled&quot; labor in America is not necessarily unskilled.  There was a learning curve to every job the author undertook.  Also, the author's co-workers in her journey among the working poor were not lazy, shiftless, non-starters, nor sub-normally intelligent.  They worked hard at jobs many people would consider unsatisfying, for small remuneration.  This book provides a glimpse at an element of society that most of us rarely encounter in any meaningful way, and what we see through Ehrenreich's eyes will probably surprise some.  It may even make us more compassionate toward the working poor, a worthy end.My criticism of the book emerges from the author's obvious sympathy for communist systems, evident in her casual quotation of Mao Tse Dong and her insertion of Marxist jargon.  I have visited communist countries, lived in China for two years, and studied history.  I can only suppose that Ms. Ehrenreich's admiration for communism is only theoretical.  Anyone who thinks it is cool to quote Mao Tse Dong should please read some of the memoirs that emerged from his reign, like Jung Chang's &quot;Wild Swans&quot; or Wu's &quot;A Single Tear&quot;.  The suffering of the protagonists in these fine books is not theoretical.  Multiply their stories by many millions, and you get an accurate picture of life under Mao.  Alexander Solzhenitsyn's books are a good antidote to sympathy for Soviet communism, if the revelations of death and terror under Stalin, well known now, does not suffice for that purpose.And if the author thinks living is difficult in the lowest-paying jobs in America, which it undoubtedly is, I invite her to try the same experiment in China, and to try being a human dray horse pulling a heavy coal cart all day.  And that is what you see in the prosperous Chinese cities, under the comparatively enlightened economic policies initiated by Deng Xiao Ping and carried forward by his successors.  I hate to think what you would see in the parts of China so poor that foreigners aren't allowed to travel there.  To say nothing of the loss of political freedom that her emersion in a communist country would entail if she truly were to live like the masses.If not for the author's erroneous ideology, I would give this book four or five stars.
5	1059782400	Do middle-class people often ponder what poverty is really like? Do we realize the nitty-gritty details of the "other half's" lives? I would venture to say that we don't, and because of our lack of interest and information about the poor, "Nickel and Dimed" becomes an incredibly important book.Upper-middle-class journalist Barbara Ehrenreich was just like everyone else in her socioeconomic bracket until she undertook the "project" that made this book possible. Determined to find out what the lives of the "working poor" were like...Ehrenreich decided to pose as "one of them" and take various low-paying jobs in three different locations. Then life became hell. While slaving away as a waitress, tirelessly scrubbing as an employee of a maid service, or trapped in the oppressive confines of Wal-Mart, Ehrenreich discovered the numerous problems that plague the working poor. She realized that housing was primitive (to put it nicely), wages never improved, food was grossly unhealthy, insurance was nonexistent, and worst of all, that her rights to dignity, freedom of speech, and being a valued employee vanished. And she found out that as a single "poor" person, her life was practically easy compared to many of her married or single parent coworkers.All I can say is that this book is amazing. As I was reading it, it was impossible not to realize how excellent (yes, excellent!) my middle-class life was by comparison. Barbara Ehrenreich's truly skillful writing fills the readers mind with unforgettable descriptions of her "experiment," and she writes with a powerful sympathy and barely disguised outrage at the dead-end lives of her co-workers. The writing is at times darkly funny as well, and every bit of this masterful writing only heightens the impact of "Nickel and Dimed."This book makes you think, makes you feel, makes you angry, and forces your eyes open to darker side of life in America. Ehrenreich clearly wants us to solve this problem of too-low minimum wages and bluntly says in her "evaluation" at the book's end that action, not guilt, is what readers should be concerned with after reading this book. As an astonishing wakeup call to the woes of minimum wage work in America, "Nickel and Dimed" is a finely written work with a powerful story to tell.
3	1059523200	I did feel that &quot;Nickel and Dimmed&quot; was a good effort on Barbara Ehrenreich's part, but I believe she was only skimming the surface of living the low-wage worker's reality.  Like other customer's who have reviewed this book, I felt her investigating was too short.  She left many things out expense wise like insurance, break downs, and health insurance or lack thereof.  I felt the book was not providing enough information until the evaluation at the end.  Without this evaluation, the book would have been fluff.  She did attempt to understand the low wage workers, but I never felt that she delved far enough into their lives.  It seems as soon as things were getting rough, she would have to leave the city and go back to her real life.  I do applaud her for leaving her comfortable life and attempting to understand the cruetly that goes on in every day life, I was just looking for something much more comprehensive then what I found.  Maybe the book would have been better if she had did an evaluation after each city instead of all the way at the end of the book.I suggest this book for people who are not aware of the low-wage worker's ordeal and what it is like to try and live on so little.  After reading this, I hope that readers who were stunned would read more about this subject.  Ehrenreich said this is only the beginning and I believe her to be right.  Hopefully change will come about as writers, activists, and every day people attempt to come together to bring about change for the better of all.
4	1059264000	I am a subscriber to _The Nation_ magazine, which often features pieces by Barbara Ehrenreich, so when I read about this book I was excited to find out what her "undercover" work would reveal about living on minimum wage (or a few dollars above, actually).  I wasn't disappointed.  Ms. Ehrenreich, who points out that she has a PhD and that when she travels is often given an important title like "keynote speaker" or "discussion group leader," tries to find low paying jobs and a place to live in three different places:  Key West; Portland, Maine; and Minneapolis.  She was able to find work by going through the indignity of drug testing, personality tests, and computerized interviews without appearing too overqualified, but finding an affordable place to live was another matter entirely, and she had extreme difficulty with that in all three cities.It was interesting to read about her experiences waitressing in a busy, touristy restaurant and then switching to a busier, more touristy restaurant in Key West because it paid better...  but she wasn't allowed breaks, or even to "chat" with the customers or other waitresses.  In Maine, she worked weekends in a retirement home serving food to alzheimer's patients (probably her most agreeable job) and during the week for a house-cleaning company; in Minneapolis she suffered through a month-long job at Wal-Mart, where she actually dared to discuss the value of unions with other employees, something which would have gotten her fired had she not been leaving soon anyway to complete her book.Ehrenreich's conclusion is that it is impossible to finance any kind of rent on 7.00 an hour, and very difficult even on 10.00 an hour.  It is even worse for single parents (women are her primary focus) and most she meets on the job are living with relatives.  She points out that welfare reform, however much trumpeted as a success by the press and the Clinton administration, does not work if people just off welfare are going to make less at their jobs than they did with the government's monthly check (especially including the necessary gasoline, childcare, uniforms, and expensive health care deductibles).My only difficulty with the book was that at times it seemed slightly condescending.  I myself am in a service job, and in 1998 (until I was promoted and then got married) I actually WAS able to live in a small Ohio college town in an efficiency just fine on 7.50 an hour, even though I was living alone.  Granted, it was a horrible apartment, and I'm not trying to invalidate Ehrenreich's findings.  However, I did think some of her statements seemed to be biased by normally living in  "the top 20%," as she classifies herself at the end of the book.  For example, upon being told to show up the next day at the restaurant where she was hired, she writes:  "At the word _tomorrow_, something between fear and indignation rises in my chest.  I want to say, 'Thank you for your time, sir, but this is just an experiment, you know, not my actual life.'"  Well, for millions of Americans, it is real life.  And isn't that supposed to be the point?  Still, an important book by a brave woman who entered the lower classes with more guts than most in her position would have.
1	1058832000	The opening sentence exemplifies the basic problem with this book:  &quot;Mostly out of laziness, I decide to start my low-wage life in the town nearest to where I actually live...&quot; Aside from the absurdity of deciding to start a low-wage lifestyle, that tells me that, when placed in the situation of the average low-skill worker, Ehrenreich will still have her home &amp; job as a famous columnist to go back to if she fails to break out of poverty. And if she succeeds, there's not much of a market in a book telling people how she got out of poverty, because everybody knows how you do that.The bias resulting from this artificial situation runs even deeper than her readily apparent ideological biases, and effects the decisions she makes when placed in a nominal state of poverty.  Sure enough, when living with little income in a relatively high-rent city, she fails to do the obvious by either getting a roommate or moving to a low-rent city.  Likewise, she fails to discern the widespread availability of social welfare programs that might help her situation, such as food stamps, Medicaid, and Section 8.  Was this an intentional omission on her part?  It almost doesn't matter.  The very premise of this book is a foregone conclusion.What is most galling about the book is Ehrenreich's irritating tone of condescension towards the poor throughout, of which the whole prince-and-pauper schtick is but an example.  You know, the whole &quot;I will live among you&quot; thing.  For you who are voiceless, I will be your voice.  Who is she anyway, Diane Fossey?  That wouldn't be the first time such an exponent of forward-thinking and progressive-mindedness  witlessly insulted the people she mooned over, would it?
5	1058832000	Ehrenreich's account of the real life of the so-called &quot;lazy people who just need to go out there and get a job&quot; is sickeningly real.  A few reviewers who have posted negative reviews of this book discount it as &quot;femaley&quot; (if that is an actual adjective) in writing and placing the blame for poor people's woes on the well-to-do, college-educated, upper-middle class man.  My only comment to such criticism is that her book must hit closer to home than some of those people like and it's easier to castigate the book as &quot;womanly drivel&quot; than to actually realize that as a member of the upper-middle class, we have the power to change the system, and maybe, in small part, are partially to blame.Ehrenreich repeatedly notes that what she experiences in her bouts of &quot;living&quot; in Florida, Maine, and Minnesota is far from what the real low-wage working class experiences.  She notes her own faults and biases, and yet this book still comes off as a stunning and yet, depressing, portrait of Americana.There are poor in this country. No, the government does not always assist them, so upper-middle class America cannot use that excuse to assuage their conscious that there is &quot;nothing I can do.&quot;  And, no, just &quot;getting a job&quot; is not enough to &quot;get by&quot; in America.  The book is well documented and referenced, forcing even the most negative critics of this book to realize (much to their chagrin) that our illustrious leaders have misled the upper-middle class into believing that &quot;poor people&quot; do not exist anymore.  Moreover, that only we as a whole society can change the drastic downward spiral of the low-wage worker.
4	1058313600	Nickel and Dimed is well written, interesting and a little depressing. It documents author Barbara Ehrenreich's experience in trying to make ends meet in low-paying menial work.For those of us that have ever had to scrub toilets or the like for a living, or had too much week left a the end of the money this book will be not so much shocking as it is a reconfirmation of the all-too-real feelings of invisibility,hopelessness and insubordination. Some people are able to pull themselves up by the bootstraps and some not. Many of the people documented here fall into the latter category, with living circumstances that would make forward progress difficult.My concern is that the people that most need to read this - the odd remaining dinosaur of the middle and upper classes who still view the poor as lazy or unworthy of help, will not bother to invest time in it. Still, we need more books like this one that expose the unjustices and indignities of life in the 'working poor', an already huge class of people whose numbers swell with every passing day.
3	1058313600	Nickel and Dimed paints a picture that tells a thousand words. Far removed from the everyday world of unemployment rates, minimum wages, poverty lines and other myriad statistics that serve only to numb us from the true meaning of poverty, Ehrenreich aims right for the jugular -- and succeeds.Infinitely more compelling than her own travails, which are disappointing shallow in nature, are the stories of her co-workers and their managers. These are the people behind the numbers. Real, breathing flesh. The people driving their beat-up dodges behind your SUV.Ehrenreich writes well and has a flair for using the more-than-occasional obscenity to jar the reader out of his comfort zone. It is refreshing that she does not try to attack or 'guilt' the reader, but rather just sticks to narration.Nickel and Dimed is a quick read, definitely not a deep, literate tome you will find yourself reading over again. Ehrenreich has a simple story to tell. And she tells it well.
5	1058227200	With close to 500 reviews already posted about this book, is there anything new to say? Probably not, but i'll weigh in anyway.The level of response, and the fervor of these responses, both pro and con, indicate to me that Ehrenreich has touched a deep nerve here. For those who criticize the artificial nature of her experiment--picking a strange community, finding a job(s) and a place to rent, and somehow trying to hold together body and soul within her limited means--the author herself acknowledges many of these restraints. Of course, she will never live in the exact same circustances as her subjects...but by working alongside them for weeks, getting to know them as people, she gives voice to a segment of society that is too often ignored. I know many of these people. If not for a modest inheritance, I would probably be one of them too. There are millions of people in this country who are seeing the American Dream moving steadily further and further from their grasp. These aren't addicts, slackers or idlers. They are caring people with friends and families who want to better themselves, but are trapped in a system that, intentionally or not, seems designed to forever defeat them.As powerful as her individual stories are, Ehrenreich does not rely entirely on anecdotes to convey her message...the statistics she uses to butress her case make the depth of this problem clear. May those in a position to move us toward a more humane, more human, system, be moved by the message.
4	1058140800	In "Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America", Barbara Ehrenreich attempts to jump feet first into the world of low-wage, unskilled employment in order to determine, first-hand, the feasibility of getting by in the world of the minimum wage.Ehrenreich abandons (most of) her financial resources, credentials, and home in order to attempt to find jobs and affordable housing in three American cities:  Key West, Florida, Portland, Maine, and Minneapolis, Minnesota.  Her goal:  to find gainful employment, affordable housing, and earn enough in one month to pay for an additional month of housing.  This goal truly represents the bare minimum required to get by in America; food, shelter, and minimal clothing.Ehrenreich waits tables and rents a small trailer in Key West, works for a maid service and nursing home and rents a motel room by the week in Portland, and folds clothes at WalMart and rents motel rooms by the week or nightly in Minneapolis.Through her attempts to find employment, Ehrenreich describes the insult that she feels over the personality tests, drug tests, and disinterested interview techniques that seem to be commonplace when applying for entry-level service and retail jobs.  She takes great interest in her low-wage co-workers who seem to be endlessly struggling to ward off poverty and homelessness.  Most co-workers share one bedroom accommodations with multiple roommates or relatives...one even lives out of a van.Ehrenreich summarizes her overall experience by rating her work performance/ethic as a triumph and giving a neutral to mildly negative rating for her ability to secure adequate lodging.  Although she does pay homage to the more advanced trials that true low-wage workers face, she fails to calculate her lack of the mental and physical maladies suffered after years of degrading manual labor.  Ehrenreich does note that she benefits from a history of adequate medical attention and voluntary physical exercise.  But I think that she stops short of considering how her overall situation would be impacted by a shift in those factors.
1	1058140800	No one can afford this type of rent solo on these kind of wages. I made this work with a 2 or 3 bedroom apartment and splitting up the expenses with roommates. The general premise behind this book is that people are entitled to live better than minimum wage will afford. I do not believe that people are entitled to any standard of living. People are certainly not entitled to a standard of living mandated or granted by the government and definitely not by taking the money earned by one person and giving to another person who earns less. People are only entitled to opportunity. There are millions of stories of people starting with nothing and achieving success in this country. There is no caste or group that you can be born to or join that will bar you from the highest rungs of success in America.
4	1057881600	Honestly, people, is this how our ancestors at the dawn of the 20th century pictured livelihood for their offspring? Nowhere in America can any individual have even a decent standard of living on $ an hour. The different arrangements and living conditions Barbara Ehrenreich describes in her undercover investigation "Nickel and Dimed: On (not) getting by in America," are not only spot on, but hold a certain degradation to all citizens of the United States. The writing of Ehrenreich superlatively demonstrates how educated writers are in no way different from people who clean houses for a living, or work at Wal-Mart.To actually reason why Barbara Ehrenreich discovered and uncovered these findings in the current period, the reader must have some background information on economics and the current trend of globalization. Ehrenreich does present some worker's rights movement history and union information, but there is no correlation between how current government malfeasance in congruence with corporate empowerment seals the fate of wage working individuals. Ehrenreich is far too busy to go in-depth on these issues due to her need to focus on writing what she discovers, and the constant demands placed on her to support her own self with no outside help at all.The particularly femaley writing style actually helps the cause of the account because the compassionate attitudes of the Ehrenreich befall the reader's own compassion. Ehrenreich meets many people, does not tell these individuals what she is doing, and then writes their stories lacing them with one into her own tale of inequality. The legend of the missing health coverage and pension, the parable of the eight hour workday becoming less and less likely in society while working more than one full-time job, and finally, these people doing all this work are barely able to afford to house and feed themselves.Ehrenreich decides to wait tables in Florida, clean houses for Merry Maids in Maine, and work for Wal-Mart in Minneapolis-St.Paul. It seems as though in every situation, every job, and every geographic region, Ehrenreich has an incredibly hard time collecting enough cash to provide life-sustaining necessities like food and home. Ehrenreich tells of her co-workers who do extremely hard work with little pay, while being gracious and kind to customers and each other... most of the time. Besides these miracles, Ehrenreich describes of her own living standards, budgets from paycheck to paycheck, and living with a friend's annoying bird.Ehrenreich offers the reader a statement before the journey begins, describing how she came about the idea to go undercover and live on these wages. There is also a post-statement and set of reading group discussion questions after the anecdote finishes. The storyline does have slow points and hard spots, "but on the whole, preparation H does feel good."
5	1057881600	Like another reviewer, I agree that this is NOT the definitive treatise on the problems of the working poor but it takes a slice of the situation and analyzes it very well.We live well at the expense of others.That is a sobering thought.  Moreover (though Ehrenreich doesn't go there at all) we do it not only at the expense of our fellow Americans but also global family members as well.On a day when I had more time, it would be entertaining to read all of the one-star reviewers.  Those reviewers will tell you more about themselves than the book.  (I want to simultaneously apologize for that grossly biased remark, but many of those folks were unwilling to minutely face the costs attached to their life style and who pays).A thoughtful but quick read.
5	1057795200	I recently read &quot;Nickeled and Dimed, on (not) getting by in America&quot;.  I want to commend the author for her courage to face the unknown and her strength of character.  As a twenty six year old single woman with some college experience, but no degree, I find myself in some of the same positions as Ms. Ehrenreich endured on her journalistic adventure.  I have, in the last 3 years have only been able to find employers that only offered part time work with no benefits.  Sometimes the only reason to go back to work the next day are the good people I've worked with.I whole-heartedly recommend this book to everyone.
5	1057795200	I grew up with a magnificant woman who has struggled with-out complaint to rise 5 daughters on $25,000 or less a year. our  fater was simply never around to help out nor did he provide child support.  She was able to attain a college degree but only after we all left home.  Even with that degree,she still works for far less than she is worth.  This book was like reading my mothers true story.  We too moved around a lot so she could find work. I went to 5 different 7th grades and 4 high schools.  I also attended 6 different grade schools. My mom is a living inspiration for me and I will give her this book as a gift.  I was lucky enough to have married a middle-class, hard working man who is putting me through college and I thank my lucky stars I have been given that opportunity, I have lived both of the worlds in this book and  was my-self a house keeper at a hotel.  I witnessed a woman fired because she collapsed from fatigue. I know both worlds and this author portrays them with acute accracy. I will have all my friends and family read this book, chances are, they all will relate.
1	1057795200	I thought I had seen it all. I have read some of the most passionate of diatribes from those left-of-center bashing the very capitalist society in which they thrive, but this lady takes the cake. It is laughable at best for ANYONE with half of a fraction of a decimal of a single I.Q. point to take this woman seriously. Why, you ask? It is very simple. Ask the author how much money is she making from this book. Then ask her how much she is sending to the poor and the downtrodden she embraces in her &quot;journal of woes&quot;. Once again, another liberal (sorry to lay that label down on some of you...I would run like the wind!) biting the very hand that is feeding them. Avoid this book, unless you run out of Charmin.
5	1057708800	Barbara Ehrenreich has exposed part of America that too many of us neglect to notice.  This book may seem like liberal-biased media (as noted by some of these other reviewers, who it seems didn't even bother to read the book before lambasting it,) BUT IT's NOT.  It presents one person's experience, for your review.  READ IT.  Buy it here. Borrow it from a friend.  Hey, maybe you could even get it for free from those folks who wrote reviews below that didn't seem to enamored of it.  But it's eye-opening and mind-broadening. A quick and easy read that is well worth your time and a few nickels and dimes.Everyone in America should read this book. It's an excellent reminder that not everyone in America (let alone in the other countries)lives in the same social and economic world.And if you're from UNC-CH, be glad that you have a University so concerned with your whole education.  If you love it after reading it, that's nice.  If you hate it after reading it, that's nice too. But be glad that your educational institution is providing such mind and conversation-stimulating material for discussion.  I wish I was a freshman at UNC, about to join discussions (from all sides!) on this thin little book.
1	1057190400	This book is pure liberal propaganda. I was forced to buy this socialist pamplet by my like minded public university. Unless you are being forced to purchase this book by the University of North Carolina or some other educational institution avoid this book like the plague unless you are a dyed in the world socialist looking for justification to violate individual rights in the name of equality. However if you are a Republican, a Liberterian, or anyone who prefers personal freedom above the supposed good of society this book will leave you either stewing with rage or beating your head on your desk at every page.
4	1056758400	My reading this book stemmed from a huge debate I had with my mother regarding welfare reform, as the author basically wrote the book as a form of investigative journalism on how people - some who were once on welfare - get by, or don't get by, on minimum wage jobs.This book certainly is a dose of reality for those of us who don't work minimum wage jobs! Ehrenreich takes a journey in Key West, Minnesota and Maine, to work minimum wage jobs and she writes of her experiences in these positions.  It truly is amazing to read about the things people do to get by in life, to live day in and day out, on minimum wage jobs.While it gives me some hope that welfare reform actually has the potential to succeed, it also is a disappointment to see such reality in the economical gap, especially in America, between the blue-collar workers and others.Now, when I see janitors, hotel workers, and waitresses, I am more careful not to rush to judgement - instead I am thankful for their perseverance in life.It is a very good book - a modern product of muckraking at its best.
5	1055980800	Beginning the book, I had a few problems with Ehrenreich's &quot;cheating&quot;: she had her bank account to fall back on, she kept her car/rented cars because &quot;I just figured that a story about waiting for busses would not be very interesting to read.&quot; (yes, but it would be more accurate), and she researched job postings on her own home comuter.  But doesn't this actually PROVE that you can NOT get by on minimum wage?In the end, if her book can elicit responses like the one below from another reader on this site, it has performed an invaluable service.  If you didn't like the book, please, (re)read this person's response.&quot;I couldn't put this book down. I found it fascinating to learn about a way of life that I have had no exposure to, as my father is a lawyer and nobody in my family has ever had I job like the ones that Ehrenreich held. Even my very first job as a lifeguard earned me $... an hour, more than any one of the jobs that she took in this book. I really respect her for being able to get by (even though she didn't think she would be able to at some points) on such little money. This book also gave me respect for people who actually have to live their entire lives on a &quot;living wage&quot; that no person could actually live a reasonable life on. I never really respected people with jobs that you don't need any skills to get, and this inside look at these jobs made me think twice about the amount of hard work that these people actually do. From now on I will be more respectful of people who may not have ever had the opportunities that I have had, and I will no longer leave pathetically small tips when the waitress is slower than usual-maybe she's just very tired.This book is a must-read. It made me think differently about the life that I am lucky enough to have, and it helped me to see just how strong some people who have not had my luck can be.&quot;
2	1055894400	"Nickel and Dimed" might have been an informative study of the living and working conditions of low-wage workers, something like a modern version of "The Road to Wigan Pier".  Although Orwell's book was an exercise in proving his preconceptions, he was careful and observant in describing the horrific living and working conditions of depression-era coal miners.  "Nickel and Dimed" is, in contrast, primarily an inventory of the author's prejudices, incompetence, condescension, and petty hatreds.  A few bits of interesting (though not particularly novel) statistical information on the working poor sneak in through the footnotes, but otherwise "Nickel and Dimed" is merely a monumental exercise in solipsism.  Dr Ehrenreich's topic is her own limited experience; she only occasionally writes about her coworkers and it is done in terms of breakroom gossip and personal speculations.  The pages in between are filled with an angry prima donna's disdain for paid labor, contempt for social inferiors, loathing of wealthier people, and respect for herself alone (and perhaps Lewis Lapham).Taken as a memoir the book might still have been worthwhile, but it is unfortunately composed in the snide voice of a narcissistic freshman who seeks to demonstrate superior humor through easy sarcasm and superior morality with easier sanctimony.  It is awfully tiring.  The conclusive chapter, in which I hoped might redeem the book with some valuable insight, starts with a charitable self-evaluation, moves on to a promising discussion of the immense problem of rent inflation, but returns to admittedly thin musings on her coworkers' mindsets drawn primarily from her own preconceptions and her extremely brief life as a wage slave.  The class warrior rhetoric is a little hard to take seriously from a narrator who openly loathes the "owner class" two chapters before reporting a $20000 tax "subsidy" from her mortgage deduction.  (It is unclear to this renter whether the figure refers to the amount of income deduction or actual tax savings, but either way it sounds like an ownership situation.)"Nickel and Dimed" was both frustrating and remarkably disappointing.  I was hoping to read an honest and illuminating study of the working poor, but instead I got a snarky adolescent memoir which became increasingly boring by the page.  For some insight into low-wage workers, I strongly suspect that books like Studs Terkel's "Working" and Alison Owings's "Hey Waitress!" are far more lucid and enlightening.  If the "undercover journalist" element is what you're after, try Ted Conover's "Newjack".
4	1055808000	i just finished this book today.  it was a quick read, and felt like an extension of an entertaining essay one might read in a sociology 101 class.i was floored by all of the rebel-rousing this book has caused here on amazon.  i had no idea people were so worked up about this book! i suppose since it did make it to the bestseller lists it may be the only book on the subject of poverty a lot of people have read, and so they're taking ehrenreich's musings as 'the word', or lack thereof.  i don't know.sure, she came across as  a liberal, upper-class white woman - that's what she is.  you can't go into the world of poverty for an 'assignment' and really get to the bottom of it all.  i liken it to the person who is blinfolded to experience blindness, even though they know they'll be able to take the blindfold off.i enjoyed reading about her experiences at the various jobs she worked, and wish she could have left it at that. the summarization of what she learned backed up by statistics didn't do it for me, and the last i-have-to-finish-this-term-paper-it-was-due-an-hour-ago sentence was el-lame-o.i recommend this book as a light, sometimes funny, othertimes depressing, read.  it isn't groundbreaking, but it most likely will make you take a look around, whatever your life situation may be.
4	1055721600	..... The paragraph you quoted from Page 121 was an example of Erenreich's deadpan sarcasm and wit. She was offering commentary on racism, marginalization and stereotypes, not sincerely espousing them.There is no dearth of holier-than-thou liberal guilt in this book (already touched on in more eloquent detail by other readers, not to mention the band Pulp in the song "Common People")--after all, it's always grating to see someone from the affluent classes deign to see how the paupers live for the sake of journalism. That said, I think NICKEL AND DIMED is an excellently-written piece of muckraking and makes some good points, and it is a welcom alternative to the piles and piles Dinesh D'Souza pap out there.
5	1055376000	The well educated and affluent Barbara Ehrenreich joined the workforce of the moderately poor.  She labored for the purpose of writing this book as a waitress, housecleaner, a low level health care provider, and even a Wal-Mart sales associate.  Ehrenreich is politically far to the left of center and perhaps hoped to present an America that is cruel and ruthless towards its economically disadvantaged.  She, however, ironically makes an excellent case that while these workers struggle to make ends meet---they still can get enough to eat and prepare for better future employment opportunities.  The author stresses the difficultly of living alone on a $6-7 per hour job.  She overlooks the fact that many of these people share their quarters with others of similar circumstance.  I suspect that Ms. Ehrenreich did likewise during her college years.  Also, how many middle class families could easily survive if the two top bread winners lived in separate quarters?Are lower skilled and high turnover employees often looked down upon and treated as second best citizens?  The answer is unfortunately yes and &#65533;Nickel and Dimed&#65533; reminds us that our egalitarian sentiments don&#65533;t always survive well when tested in the real world.  The author most assuredly would like the government to take a more active role in the lives of these people.  Ms. Ehrenreich fails to comprehend that the poor will best improve their lot in life if compelled to compete in the private sector.  For instance, she mentions working with a nineteen year old Czech immigrant dishwasher.  I would bet a few dollars that this young man is no longer engaged in such menial labor.  A viable society cannot afford to unwittingly encourage perpetual dependency. Those at the bottom have to start somewhere, and these bottom rung jobs normally serve to help one to pull themselves up by their own proverbial bootstraps.Is the author arrogant and condescending toward the subjects of her journalistic study?  I don&#65533;t find this to be the case at all.  It is virtually impossible not to ruffle feathers with this sort of book.  Barbara Ehrenreich is damned if she mentions her actual privilege lifestyle, and even more damned if she doesn't.  Nonetheless, I did feel uncomfortable with her tolerance of the smoking habits of some of these people.  Would she do the same with those of her own social set?  I recommend this book as an overall fair and insightful look at those many of us will rarely interact with on an intimate level.  Ehrenreich leaves much to be desired as a labor policy theorist, but deserves praise as an astute social observer. I would also strongly advise the reader to seek out Mickey Kaus&#65533; brilliant book, &#65533;The End of Equality.&#65533; The latter work philosophically compliments her journalistic endeavor.
5	1055376000	Ms. Ehrenreich writes a credible memoir of her minimum-wage experiement.  She tried to live on minimum wage in different cities and economic markets, and reports dutifully on her inability to find affordable housing, decent working conditions, or enough sleep.  While Ehrenreich only tried her experiment for a short time, she provides us with more than enough details to bring to life that special combination of tedium and terror that frames the life of the working poor.
4	1055203200	Some reviewers need to calm down. This book is not marxist or communist or whatever. It's a quick read that can be funny at times & sad at others. Take it at face value & don't read too much into it. It's not 'left-wing' or trying to overthrow the government...it's a book about work.I really enjoyed reading about the author's different jobs around the country. I can totally relate to working retail and I laughed at her humor. I also felt for many of her coworkers and their situations. The book really makes you think about what it's like to be poor & Ehrenreich backs up her statistics with hard facts & data.Those who call the book marxist have completely misinterpreted it. Why does the right have to come out with guns ablaze when they disagree? There's no need for that.
5	1054944000	NICKLED AND DIMED is one terrific book.  It has a brisk pace, drama, intrigue, and examines sympathetically the challenges and threats that face the growing and eclectic horde of unskilled indoor wage-earners--everyone from homeless to pension-thwarted former middle-class retirees--who now are the butt of the "Post-Industrial" service economy.  Can folks actually work for the Marts and the Rent-a-Maids and the Burger Hives on not much above minimum wage--live on cheap food under a dry roof and keep their MasterCards from maxing out without medical insurance?Ehrenreich took a "hands-on" approach rather than an academic approach to answer this riddle.  Having tripped across this social dilemma while writing a feature piece for HARPER'S magazine, she later asked for and was granted permission to impersonate a middle-aged single working woman (not too big a leap--as most of us, she was a "working poor" college student who waited tables.)  With her editor as a backstop, Ehrenreich abandoned her cozy Manhattan digs and set out in Dubya's USA, armed only with a bag of t-shirt, khaki, jeans and Reeboks-type clothing, about $2,000 in seed money for apartment leases, and occasionally the use of an old beater car.  Goal:  this astonishing book.Ehrenreich spends several months in three very different areas of the USA:  in and around Key West, FL; Portland, Maine in the off-season; and Minneapolis.  She waitresses at two restaurants; was intimidated out of a "big-box" retail job in between training and reporting for duty; and vastly improved her dusting technique as a maid-trainee.  Just like reality, these and other of Ehrenreich's mini-careers were a mix of successes and failures, but she sure was poor--and the social-welfare safety net held vastly more holes than nylon.Some syndromes emerge:  everywhere Our Heroine went, job bulletins and daily papers announce that "new jobs are constantly becoming available" (yes, because they were intolerable and the prior workers quit); "affordable housing is within reach" (which often turns out to be an entire family stuffed into one room of a fleabag hotel that withholds the equivalent of one week's salary as a deposit).  And what if you don't have a car and "within reach" means 25 miles of Interstate from Big Box?  And spouse has mismatched schedule?  "You'll learn valuable new skills."  Sometimes yes, sometimes no--why train someone when they can learn by trial and error; we're dealing with pinafores here, not atom bombs, so at $8.50 per hour the help is the cheapest thing to waste.Ehrenreich's experiences in sum:  Everything isn't a disaster, but if not for my varicose veins I'd almost rather be Bob Cratchit.  Even though Ehrenreich's Seven Sister/Ivy League education leaves her with a snotty residue of social presumption, she at least acknowledges her slowly collapsing sense of entitlement with grace.  In terms of journalist-as-personality, is Ehrenreich to be condemned because she had the escape-hatch of jetting back to Manhattan when she got tired of smelling hay in Hooterville?  It's a factor she knows might distract from the verisimillitude of her lifestyle, but it doesn't doom her venture or type her character as a dilettante or a poor researcher:  in my opinion more than a few prior reviewers took her to the woodshed too vigorously on that account.Let's nuance it:  Ehrenreich leavens the blunt existential economic and social terror her new co-workers daily confront with a sympathetic yet mordant, witty flair not unlike Jessica Mitford's THE AMERICAN WAY OF DEATH (1963). Stand-up stuff, not at all flippant.  Let's also consider that she had no nuclear nor extended family to reach out to -- not even an unpleasant one -- for a loan for prescription drugs, utility hook-up, or car repair--and fortunately (but exhaustingly) she was too smart to approach the local macho masher for a three-mile lift home.NICKLED AND DIMED is relatively short, and readable and punchy.  The paperback edition even appends some literary-discussion group notes.  Like 2002's FAST FOOD NATION, any citizen ought to read this book and do some serious thinking about his/her place within the overall order.  How secure is secure?  How much of your 401(k) pension is in company stock?  Remember Enron?  Want to be a greeter for Mr. Sam just to pay for your Celebrex?  Do you despise the local underclass?  Do you have any control against becoming a member of it?
5	1054857600	This is an amazing book. I know projects like this have been done before, but Barbara puts facts, experiences and witty insights together in ways that will make you laugh out loud and get a little misty-eyed. Tragic, funny, illuminating and frustrating, it has been the best book I've read all year.
2	1054684800	If you have ever worked a minimum wage job in your life then you can skip this book. I gave it two stars because it isn't entirely useless and there are some people who maybe don't know that life [stinks] at the bottom. The work could have been better if Barbara's SEVERE bias didn't surface again and again. She seems to have a uniquely American combination of contempt for capitalism, the middle class, and religion combined with her own high standard of living. She regards the "owner class" as disgusting fat pigs and uncultured idiots whose only delights are low brow literature and abusing lower class workers. She has the upper class leftist fake reverence for the working class, trying hard to disguise her disgust at their bad teeth, clothes, and hairstyles. This "experiment" started with her trying to make it in Key West on minimum wage! Duh. You will hear again and again about her PhD, her years of working out, and her lifestyle as a "seminar leader". If you like Marxist ranting, then you might really love this book.BTW- I would NEVER hire someone for ANY job who thinks getting high in the parking lot and stealing from work are OK.
1	1054512000	The idea behind this book sounded very interesting. However, the way the author has written the book doesn't provide much more information than what we already know. The author did a half assed job in her experiment. The author could have gotten the same information just by making a few simple phone calls. The author really didn't provide us with information that we don't already know.
2	1054425600	This book was interesting, but not till the end of the book.  The first part of the book was really hard for me to understand Barbara because she came off so arrogant.  For me Nickel and Dimed wasn't new information, for me or anyone I know.  My life was worse than what she was writing about because I had to pay my next months rent.  I didn't have the option to just get up and decide it was time for me to move to the next town cause I was tired of dealing with the reality of life.  Barbara on the other hand had that option and she had her back up money, that the working poor don't have.  It wasn't till the end of the book that she didn't come off ssooo arrogant.  Barbara had a really  good idea about doing the study to see if she could live on the pay of a minimum wage job.  I didn't really care for how she went about her study, but the book wasn't that bad I guess.
2	1054425600	I read Nickel and Dimed with great interest recently.  Nickel and Dimed is to be commended for attempting to bring the daily struggles of poor Americans to the forefront.However the book's noble goals were overshadowed by its faults.1.  The author seemed unable to stop dwelling on how different (educated, smart, wealthy) she was compared to the people whose lives and tribulations she described.  There was a vivid arrogance in how she portrayed herself and those around her.  It may have seemed appropriate initially to address this difference, but it persisted throught the entire book, and often took on a belittling character with respect to those people around her.  After 50 pages of it, I began to believe that the book gave greater insight into the author's sense of superiority than into the subject matter.2.  The author's job experiences were disingenuous.  She typically quit her jobs over the first and slightest reprimand.  She admits to cheating (ie going back to her 'previous life') for a break.3.  The book gave little insight into the daily lives of poor working Americans.  She dealt mainly with the daily tasks of her jobs and how she came to choose those jobs.  The occasional footnotes were actually much more interesting, as they gave real information about life in America.4.  The bias.  From the book's clear political bias to the grossly anti-religious statements (calling Jesus Christ a 'wine-guzzling vagrant') it seemed that the author's personal views could not be separated from the story.  Bear in mind, a book with a bias is not necessarily dishonest.  But the author seems to have not had the confidence to believe that the facts and the events that took place could stand witness alone.Overall, Nickel and Dimed took on a geat subject, but poorly.  I was very disappointed at how little it said about the lives of poor Americans compared to how much it said about the author.
2	1054252800	As I began to read the book, I did not like it.  I did not like the fact how easy it was for her that she knew she could fall back on previous earnings that she had.  It is not the real sense of reality because those who do have a minimum wage income do not have that cushion.  Later on in the book, I found it interesting all the little tid bits of facts she provided from each job.  Also, on the drug testing, I believe in it because there are many liabilities for the employer, so most people should not be shocked to be tested.  Overall, I found this book interesting.  Once I started a section, it was hard to put it down because I always wanted to know what she was going to say next.  I do not think this book is a true-life fact of being able to make it on minimum wage though.  It needed to be a longer time period, and the way she left a job gave the book a false sense because not just anyone who needs the income will up and leave a job.  Maybe find someone who really does live this life and have them write a book.  Let's compare, then.
4	1054166400	I thought that Barbara Ehrenreich took an excellent shot at making it by on minimum wage. Although she did not excell at surviving, the point was not to prove the ease of making it in the blue-collar society. I have heard and read many say that she gave up too soon and with ease. How many of you could go from upper middle class with a nice cushion behind you to the depths of poverty? How much more would she have to suffer before the raging "leftist" label could be removed from her? I give Barbara my gratitude for showing those who have not had the headache of struggling to survive a taste of what it is like. On that note I say give my thanks there is a book out there that brings some insight on this often overlooked (and definiately overworked)group of people.
4	1053561600	Once starting Barbara Ehrenreich's book, &quot;Nickel and Dimed,&quot; I simply could not put it down (well, it helps that I was stuck in jury duty for 3 days, but, still...). I've been wanting to read this book for some time - the concept of someone abandoning their comfortable lifestyle to tough it out with the working class for journalistic purposes sounded very interesting to me.After reading this book, I can see that it is so much more than that. While trying to determine whether one can survive on the low wages of unskilled labor, Ehrenreich also uncovers several other topics. You'll read the horrors of the cleaning business and the relentless work that waitresses and Wal-Mart workers endure. She describes the hopelessness of the working class in such detail that you can't help but question the motives that these people have for sticking with a certain job (Ehrenreich has an answer for this question as well). There are even some moments when the author gets fed up with it all herself and resents everything from her fellow workers to minorities.Like most people, I tend to skip past footnotes when reading almost anything from textbooks to articles, but don't make the mistake of doing so with &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot;! The most interesting (and often shocking) portions of this relatively short book come directly from the footnotes, in which Ehrenreich quotes a wide range of sources, from cleaning experts to books on the conflicts of race in low wage professions. These bits of info are so interesting that I even feel compelled to read the books and articles that were referenced.The only thing that stopped me from giving this book a perfect score is the fact that the author had CHOSEN this way of life in order to gain further insight. Knowing this, along with the somewhat lenient self-imposed rules that she had when deciding to go through with this investigation, made it difficult to feel sympathy for her experiences as opposed to someone who legitimately has to be in the described situations. Otherwise, I highly recommend &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; for its original concept and its simple but revealing content.
5	1052956800	The author is a brave gal who showed me a world I did not know. More than ever I appreciate the blessings I have and how hard the have-nots have to work.Give this book to your teenager. The importance of training for the work world is paramount.
5	1052870400	I couldn't put this book down. I found it fascinating to learn about a way of life that I have had no exposure to, as my father is a lawyer and nobody in my family has ever had I job like the ones that Ehrenreich held. Even my very first job as a lifeguard earned me $... an hour, more than any one of the jobs that she took in this book. I really respect her for being able to get by (even though she didn't think she would be able to at some points) on such little money. This book also gave me respect for people who actually have to live their entire lives on a "living wage" that no person could actually live a reasonable life on. I never really respected people with jobs that you don't need any skills to get, and this inside look at these jobs made me think twice about the amount of hard work that these people actually do. From now on I will be more respectful of people who may not have ever had the opportunities that I have had, and I will no longer leave  pathetically small tips when the waitress is slower than usual-maybe she's just very tired.This book is a must-read. It made me think differently about the life that I am lucky enough to have, and it helped me to see just how strong some people who have not had my luck can be.
5	1052611200	That said, this book is very appropriate reading for all Americans who believe that this could be a better country. Not only are corporate employers using their employees as disposables, but also they are giving their customers some very unhealthy food and dangerously dirty house cleaning. If you don't care about your fellow Americans, there are tales to worry the complete egoist.
1	1052352000	Ehrenreich's  novella is anecdotally interesting.  The experiment is supposedly 'scientific,' (and the fact that she has a doctorate indicates that she should be familiar with the scientific process) but be prepared for a blatantly leftist orientation that colors the story and her conclusions.Ehrenreich cannot seem to accept the idea that maybe individuals from a different culture have a different outlook on life, live according to different values, and get pissed off at different things than she would.  I share Ehrenreich's displeasure at the way in which some low-skilled laborers are treated (by both customers and bosses); however, this rudeness is not relegated to low-skilled industries.  You can find a rude boss or customer anywhere--it does not necessarily lead to a scathing "expose" of minimum wage jobs; nor does it lead to a call for government intervention.Also, Ehrenreich has a habit of condescendingly forcing her comparatively upper-class 'sensibility' upon those she perceives as her lower-class coworkers (whether or not the 'advice' is needed or correct).  The holier-than-thou attitude is infuriating, because Ehrenreich mostly comes across as disinterested and unprofessional.  Each incident shows her inability to truly understand (and therefore relay accurately and fairly) the individuals' stories.  She seems to expect her coworkers to worship her words of wisdom, and alter their life plans accordingly.The individuals' stories are interesting.  They would have been much more interesting without the leftist slant of Ehrenreich's book.  I give it one star for the potentiality of the subject matter.  Done right, this idea would be a good way to look at the culture of minimum wage jobs.  I would recommend saving your money on this book, though, and simply reading it at a library--the amount of literary fluff cuts down the reading time.
5	1052265600	A girl I work with had this book and told me that I should get a copy to read.  She thought I would like it.She was right. I really liked reading this book.  It was a fantastic read.  I realize that working people struggle even more than what the author goes through.  I am a working person.  A lot of the stories in this book were ones I could identify with.  I am glad this book was written and I think overall the author did a good job.
1	1052179200	This was a really great premise, but was scattered, shallow and turned quickly into a naive rant.  This woman is out of touch with reality.  It is a shame, as a true adventurer could do this and come out with a gem. She is an academic snob, who can't write in logical sequence, and should stick to her biology. Even her co-workers were not impressed! A bore, from a well intentioned but a clearly 'out of her depth' writer.  Save your change, folks, and spend your silver elsewhere.
4	1052179200	Imperfect as an empirical study, but really highlights the impossibility of living on minimum wage. Certainly dispells the idea of the lazy, poor, working class.
1	1052006400	I applaud Ehrenreich for being up-front about her biases.  However, there was just too much of things like off-hand Marx quotations and terminology, fantasizing about poisoning a client because his/her house contained conservative books (p109), etc.  Pure venom, occasionally related to the surrounding content of the book, spewed at ordinary middle-class Americans.If you like the New York Times editorial page, you'll probably just skim right past this stuff.  If you are looking for a serious book about the plight of america's poor, skip this one.  There must be something better out there than this.  The factual content isn't worth wading through the vitriol.
5	1051833600	I had to read this book for a school assignment- I had no idea that this book would REALLY make me think long and hard about how lucky I am to be able to attend college, and as a result hopefully provide a better life for myself.  So many people don't have the opportunity to do so...Just like after 9/11, everyone American-born woman was thankful to have been born in America rather then in Afghanistan.  This book had the same impact on me-just stop for one minute and be thankful for everything I have.She really did a wonderful job of articulating the struggles of the poor.  I encourage everyone to read this book-I plan on holding onto this book and making my future kids read it when they are contemplating whether or not they want to go to college-There is no chance of getting ahead for the unskilled and uneducated in America today.Poverty is a societal problem, not necessarily a reflection of a persons worth!  Read this book and never forget that with a stroke of bad luck it could be you at the bottom, and no one at the top will care about you either!  If Pres Bush could read past a third grade level, I would recommend he (and his colleagues) read this book and rethink policy...we can win a war in Iraq in 3 weeks but we can't win the war on poverty in our own country! Too bad the poor don't sweat and bleed oil!
2	1051056000	The premise of this book is interesting and the author is reasonably successful at portraying the plight of the working poor. Unfortunately, the book degenerates into a lengthy and disingenuous leftist diatribe. This book would be much more persuasive if told from a more objective point of view.
5	1050537600	Wow! There's a huge, gray elephant in the living room and Barbara Ehrenreich tripped over it and ran out and told the neighbors! Thank God someone finally stepped up to the plate and told the truth about what's been going on economically in the United States for the past 20 years.As horrifying as this book is, however, it is far scarier to note that these living conditions are not merely suffered by the "lower class."  "Decent, middle-class" folks live this reality ever single day in America.  I am absolutely amazed reading these reviews that most people think that these experiences are only for the "poor."I am reasonably young, attractive, and college-educated and I graduated from college in 1991 and it is still difficult to "make a living." I wear a suit, I look great, I appear just as affluent, if not moreso than some of the millionaires who shop in the stores that I frequent after I'm done working at my $12.00 an hour job in affluent Northern New Jersey.  But I am one of the nation's poor, because, quite frankly, rent costs about 60% of my income, which is the true definition of poverty, if you follow basic economic calculations. When you're taking home $300 a week and rent is $1,000 a month...there's a problem.People consider me, and others like myself to be "Gen-X Slackers" or "Neo-Hippies" because we gag on the idea of working 9-6 every day in a corporation and only getting 10 days a year off combined sick/vacation time.  The lower and middle class of this country is seriously burnt out and spent serving gravy and fat to the wealthy.  What do we have to show for it? Maxed out credit cards and huge medical bills because most of us don't get health insurance.They call this the land of the free and the home of the brave? Does any thinking person seriously buy that anymore? Or did you have the time to read this review at all, as you were warming up your 5th box of Kraft Macaroni n' Cheese this month, lamenting the $2.00 a gallon gas hike and your 16th pink-slip?Thanks again, Barbara Ehrenreich, for blaring that big, fat horn. Everyone's up, and the coffee smells strong....
1	1049328000	The idea of this book sounded like a good idea and I was excited to read it, having worked in low-paying retail for many years. I was very disappointed, though. The "experiment" was poorly done. She gave up in each location she was at, not because she was forced to, but just because she felt like it. People in the real world can't do that. Also, waaaaaay to many simile and metaphors that are way to extensive. Her writing is way too froofy for this kind of subject. She'll describe something and compare it to something else to be humorous, but goes off on such a tangent, you forget what she was talking about or what it has to do with. She needs to tone it down. She'd be good for poetry, maybe? But, unfortunately, this book is a bust. Don't bother. I want my nickels and dimes back. This book is not what you think it will be, unfortunately. It's a snore...Also--Barb's a raging liberal lefty. Big surprise. I should've sniffed that out before I even opened the book. My mistake.
5	1048809600	I would like to be able to read this book to every single person who truly believes that it just takes "hard work" to "make it" in America. Also for those who actually think that the "trash" in this country who are just "lazy"  should just "get a job". This is an unvarnished, utterly honest look at what it means to have to work for minimum wage in this country and what unrelenting slavery is meant by that polite political term "working poor".The next time a poor corporation bemoans it will be put out of business by a union, or a few cent raise in the minimum wage, or health care, or any of the truly civilizing and humanizing benefits those who work for minimum wage should receive (like a LIVING wage), get this book out and find out what they're REALLY talking about.One other idea; know a kid who wants to drop out to "get a job"? Get this book for him/her, it's the best argument for staying in school and getting the skills to rise out of these jobs I've ever read.But don't get the idea this is a preachy book, or one with a pre-conceived agenda. It is, rather, a diary of experience, a view of life we'd prefer never to know about, but should. Beutifully written, heartbreaking and uplifting, you will never, ever forget this book.
5	1048636800	This book provides first hand research into what it is like to be a low income worker.  While the book is well researched and includes important facts and documentation that points out how hard it is to overcome the economic challenges of being a low wage earner, this book takes the issue an important step further.  It shows, first hand, the emotional direct effects of what it is like to live the life of a struggling employee.The author researched this book by living the life of a divorced woman attempting to reenter the workplace after decades of no employment.  While she had a personal financial security net and much work experience, she hid her experiences and sought not to use her safety net.The pressures and frustrations facing so many people struggling just to keep their heads over water is described.  We follow the author as she hunts for jobs, works long hours in difficult jobs, and then tries to manage living on her paychecks.  Readers learn how difficult life is for so many Americans.Life on low wages is difficult.  If one does not have the money to make a deposit, one cannot cook meals.  This means food is likely going to be more costly, which in turn makes it more difficult to save for a room.  Further, health care is usually a dream for most low wage earners.  Yet, prescription drugs and medical care are more expensive for people without insurance, which again makes it more difficult to break out of the low wage cycle.Stress is a major part of low income employment.  The author describes how employers of low income workers, perhaps knowing most will not remain with them long and definitely aware they can easily be replaced, attempt to get as much work as possible as they can out of employees while they have them.  This makes life difficult for low income employees.  This matches data showing that work-related injuries and illnesses have risen sharply over the past two decades.Almost 30% of Americans earned, in 1998, $8 an hour or less.  Yet it took an average hourly wage of $8.89 or more to afford a typical one bedroom apartment.  The author found she could save $500 a month for rent when it cost $675 go afford trailer rental.  She further found many co-workers living in cars or vans.  This supports statistis indicating that about one-fifh of homeless people are employed.This is a great book: it is a personal diary that tells about an American tragedy.  It is recommended highly.
5	1047427200	Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich was brought to my attention by my 61 yr old domestic partner who, having raised 5 children and worked blue collar jobs as a welder until the physical stress of the job created carpel tunnel syndrom so bad he can no longer work in this field, has just started college.To "retrain". Nickel and Dimed was required reading for his sociology course.  Funded by a small grant and student loans, we both hold hope that there will be some sort of living wage job at the end of the day.  Although we personally know at least 4 friends with college educations who cannot find jobs in their field.  Since I am self-employed and struggling in this "bad economy", I am also seeking work outside my field, and with a strong business and sales background I am beginning to suspect my age (51) is working against me.  Though both of us once enjoyed a comfortable lifestyle, and owned property...we are now renters and among the "working poor" that Ehrenreich writes about in this book.I feel this book should be required reading for all politcians, employers, and anyone who for any reason considers themselves above the struggling working classes (whether by reason of education or economics).I applaud the author for her experiment and research on how minimum wage workers are on a continual downward spiral, and basically "can't get there from here".  Minimum wage workers pay taxes, slave to meet ever-escalating financial obligations, love their families, and cradle dreams in their hearts....all the while under a level uncertainty and stress that, if they had health insurance and could get a regular check up, their doctors would surely warn them would lead to an early grave.  Adding to this degredation is the inner knowledge that they are scorned and looked down on, even avoided by those they serve.  They know the prevailing, unspoken thought is "why haven't you made more of your life...you must be stupid."  Defeat is the agar that breeds frustration, depression, rage, and domestic violence.One of the ironies the working poor live with is that many of those who underpay for their services proudly write off their donations to charities for which working poor don't qualify.Because they work.It won't get better.  I read recently that the number of homeless in urban areas grew by 19% in the past 10 years.  While those with healthy incomes can absorb the rampant cost of living increases, even while their 401K's and stock investments suffer, minimum wages are not increasing accordingly.  In 10 years the country will be swelling with homeless citizens, whose hope for employment has been extinquished by still another high-tech inovation that has wiped out yet more thousands of jobs.  Do you know that some employers now not only check for drugs, but run a credit check?  The premise of this pre-employment requirement is that if you haven't been able to handle your finances, you will be very likely to perpetrate some sort of theft or fraud, and should not be hired.I think the people who can afford to buy Ms. Ehrenreich's book... should buy it, read it, and have a little sympathy.  Or at least wake up and smell the future.  There WILL be a saturation point, and a breaking point for the ranks of the working poor, and you are not going to want to witness it...even through the window of your very own tank of an S.U.V.Boy would I love to have a long conversation with the author.  I found this book to be a long overdue study on modern day fuedalism.  We need more like it.
5	1046736000	Barbara Ehrenreich temporarily became a member of the working poor in order to write this book, and thank God she did.  This is a story that needs to be told -- the poor aren't poor because they're lazy, but often because that's the way things work out.  This bold experiment of hers is a valuable window into the way that a tremendous number of Americans really live.  This book is eye-opening and bold.  Highly recommend it.
5	1046390400	Barbara Ehrenreich wrote a quick-read book that scratches the surface of working at poverty level wages.  The book is well written as it avoids overloading the reader with impersonal facts and numbers.  What Barbara accomplishes is to tell a few people's stories, give us a glimpse of day to day relations people have, and explain that escaping from poverty is not as easy as &quot;hard work, living a morally clean life, and going to church.&quot;Well now that I've attempted to pontificate with my copious and pretentious lexicon...let me turn my attentions to the review by MacBeth Dernham, straight outta Harvard.Macbeth skips reviewing the story that Barbara has written and practically labels Barbara as a &quot;pot-smoking liberal hippie.&quot;  Either way, MacBeth reminds me of a Reagan era Republican, who probably thinks the poor deserve to be poor.  I think the biggest giveaway of being wealthy is that MacBeths name is MacBeth.Okay, so now that I've just attacked the rich....remember this.This book will learn you a lesson. Read it.
4	1045612800	First of all, the person who thought the Buddha scene was uplifting obviously missed the point: the Buddha points out the discrepancy between the poor and the wealthy liberals. And to all the people complaining that Ms. Ehrenreich earns $$$ for a book her subject can't afford, well, this is still a free market economy and there are libraries who carry the book. As for the drug tests: if they tested for alcohol abuse, we would have more newly minted privacy advocates than you can fend off with a free beer.Now on to the review: This type of book runs the risk of being preachy and condescending, which, of course, in places it is. The book looks at three very specific locations, draws some conclusions about the working poor (inadequate housing, lack of opportunity, subservience to management) and that's that.One has to admire Ms. Ehrenreich for even attemting to upset her life and undergo such an adventure. This book provides an easy and quick read. Sure, you can say she is a hypocrite, going back to her life, collecting her royalties, trying to organize a union at Wal-Mart(?) but does anyone really want to live in poverty?
1	1044489600	I read this book cover to cover, just to see if anything of scientific or economic value emerged.  The only thing we really learn is that Ms. Ehrenreich does not enjoy physical labor, that she smokes pot, that she resents wealthy conervatives while giving wealthy liberals an pass (she sees a statue of Buddha in a house she is cleaning, so she feels uplifted...a book by Limbaugh makes her plot...warfare against the owner), and that she believes corporations are bad.  The footnotes, with few exceptions, cite a plethora of liberal sources for economic statistics.At times, Ms. Ehrenreich sounds like Eliza Doolittle, spinning off into strains of griping and plotting:  "Just you wait, 'enry 'iggins!" ...BR>The book was brought to my attention through the alumnae association of the small women's college I attended.  It was required reading for all incoming freshmen...I hope the point was to show an example of bad research; there is no other value here.There are many questions we can ask about poverty in America, but they are not addressed here.  Better research questions might include:  Who makes it out of poverty, and how?  What are the strategies people use to "get by" in America?  What strategies fail?
2	1044230400	Nickel and Dimed  by Barbara Ehrenreich:For what the book is about see the summary above. The book is short and can be read in one sitting if you have time to sit. One waitress I mentioned the book too gave me a very patronizing comment that she hadn't heard about the book but would read it when she gets the chance. I suspect this book does not get read by many it purports to study since reading is not one of the things they have time to do. It suggests the individuals working in entry level jobs for minimum (or less) wage and trying to support themselves and perhaps children and others as well are unable to do so, primarily because of the cost of housing. The clear point is that greedy corporations are to blame. If only they raised the minimum wage until it was a living wage - especially by taking into account the cost of housing, or if better more secure cheap housing were made available, this large group of people would lead much better lives.While some people I know point out that they know people that fit the description of the "nickel and dimed", some even clients, and I am sure there are people in this situation, it has been my experience that the majority of people in entry level jobs are young people still in high school or starting college (or beginning to realize college would be a good idea) and that they are working primarily to earn money they can spend on what they want, not for basic support. For those who are stuck there are lots of reasons and I have no doubt that change in the local economy up and down will make life more or less miserable. I remain convinced that folks like James K. Galbraith have a lot more serious insight even if they are not loaded with comments designed to keep a person from dining out in cheap restaurants or hiring help for around the house.It strikes me that the primary readership of this book are those who enjoy the occasion to know there are many - perhaps most of the working people - who are leading far more miserable lives and that we should be concerned to do something to help them. It reminds me of the special TV coverage of poor people in various parts of the world who need financial help and this TV coverage typically attracts the most donations from those who have the least to give. It is tremendously spiritually uplifting to recognize you are doing well and can help others who are not. Considering the weak impact of such aid especially among those that figure prominently in the video, it is clear to me that non-profit is primarily to the benefit of the bureaucracy that supports it. I am sure that Barbara made some nice change with her book as well.
4	1043971200	Women working 16 hour days for pennies, with not enough food to keep their bodies nourished. Renting motel rooms and being gouged for rent in dangerous neighborhoods... sound like something happening in one of those other countries... perhaps a charity is looking for your money to send to some unfortunate people across the ocean. WRONG... this is happening right here in our communities. Ehrenreich goes to three different cities and sees if she can make it on a minimum wage job. The resounding answer is NO. From scrubbing floors to being a waitress and then working at a mega store with bright lights and little compassion  it's astonishing to see the things that are happening right under our noses. Wake up America! Passive reading is not allowed here.
3	1043798400	In this book, Barbara Ehrenreich decides to perform an experiment where she will cast off her diplomas and journalistic experience and get a job as a low skill worker in a series of places.  She actually chooses to be a Waitress, a House-Cleaner, and then a Wal-Mart employee.  She will only live off what she earns, and will not tell anyone about her book until the very end.While noble and somewhat insightful, she tries desperately to insight pity and utterly fails.  She tries the typical black and white approach of showing the corporate or owner class exploiting the workers.  She provides plenty of examples of her poor treatment, but doesn't provide much insight.Her criticisms are one-sided.  She rarely blames her coworkers, or even herself.  She complains that the drug tests are unfair and that it prevented her from landing a job.  Well, gee, maybe she shouldn't have taken drugs?  She feels sorry for a fellow waitress at a local restaurant, but doesn't really mention that it's her fault for not going to another restaurant that could treat her better.  She talks with a co-worker who quit college because of a lack of funds.  She doesn't mention that whether or not he even tried for financial aid, which, believe me, is definitely available for low-income independent students.One of the worst flaws of the book is that she only experiences the first few months of a job, and doesn't really research the long-term ramifications.  I know for a fact that many low skilled jobs offer large pay raises, medical insurance, and even 401(K)s after a few years of work.  She conveniently ignores that.  She even ignores all pretense of a book and starts trying to unionize Wal-Mart employees.This book is not all bad.  When you're finally accustomed to the whining, it actually provides a lot of information.  It's cleanly written and flows smoothly.  I do admire the fact that this book was made, I admire the effort, and I think it's a book that should have been written.Of course, in an ironic twist, since this book is in trade paperback form, it's largely unaffordable to the people she worked with in the book.
5	1043107200	Lots of the specifics about Ehrenreich's project are catalogued in the other strong reviews -- so I won't repeat what's written.Nickled and Dimed changed the way I see my immediate, middle-class world.  It sharpened my awareness of the inequities and injustices that my middle-class life may depend upon, and at times enable and create.  This may sound like a depressing epiphany at best, but the implications are far too important  for mere sadness or resignation.  My question after reading this book shifted from "What's to be done?" to "What can I do? NOW."What I'm doing now is writing this recommendation, and buying this powerful little book for about 5 friends...
4	1043107200	This book gave a very interesting look into the working class industry, especially waitressing, I always thought that was an ok field of work, the tips seemed good when I was at a restaurant. But I only had the customer point of view,not the workers point of view.I'm glad I read this book, it teahces you to appreciate the things you have in life.I recommend everyone to read this book.
5	1043020800	Lots of the specifics about Ehrenreich's project are catalogued in the other strong reviews -- so I won't repeat what's written.Nickled and Dimed changed the way I see my immediate, middle-class world.  It sharpened my awareness of the inequities and injustices that my middle-class life may depend upon, and at times enable and create.  This may sound like a depressing epiphany at best, but the implications are far too important  for mere sadness or resignation.  My question after reading this book shifted from "What's to be done?" to "What can I do? NOW."What I'm doing now is writing this recommendation, and buying this powerful little book for about 5 friends...
4	1042934400	Barbara Ehrenreich decides to abandon her middle class life in exchange for super low wages, and the extreme form of living from paycheck to paycheck. He story documents her own experience as well as those around her, who unlike her have no house, savings accounts, or cars to fall back on when the experiment is over. Barbara Ehrenreich writes a sad story of how millions of Americans have to live in near poverty, and how huge corporations keep these people where they are and make them feel like they are lucky. A great work that shows the true impact of corporate greed on American workers.Highly recommended for any jaded American looking for more information on what this great nation lacks. Right up there with Fast Food Nation and Stupid White Men.
5	1042761600	There are many vantage points that one can write about our economic system from to illustrate the lack of sustainability we're creating for ourselves in America, but Barbara Ehrenreich arguably chooses the most effective route through the issue by going undercover to find out how America's millions of working poor get by from month to month. Besides describing in vivid detail the experience of struggling to get by on wages that so many of our largest employers pay, Ehrenreich opens your eyes to disturbing practices that are the norm in restaurants, hotels, cleaning services, and big box retailers across the country. Though I believe everyone can benefit from reading this book, those who will benefit most are those who already consider themselves liberal, and believe that they know the extent of the problem we've created in America -- this book will prove to you that you only know half the story, at best. This book will make you a better tipper, and it will make you think twice before you ever hire a cleaning service or shop at Wal-Mart again.
5	1042675200	I read this book in a politics of poverty class. It is clear that she has an agenda as any writer does. This book would be an important antidote to conservative screaming about "personal responsibility" if only they would be willing to think about it. Of course one of the most important benefits of this book is it demonstrates a very important method for understanding the problems the poor face, not her trying to be a poor person, but actually talking with them and learning some about their lives. Mitchell Duneier in _Sidewalk_ does something similar as does Elliot Liebow in _Tell Them Who I Am_.Ehrenreich's scathing portrait of isolated struggling mostly, women, trying to make ends meet is a surefire indictment of the quick fix our politicians continue to proffer of "making jobs." With full employment still leaving about 5% of people unemployed, we must look not just at "jobs" alone but at the quality of working conditions and wages which will determine whether jobs are really, or can ever be the solution.Especially enjoyable was her visit to the revival. Religion can provide a certain a solace to those in problems, but her point about the obsession with the dead Christ on the Cross, as opposed to the philosophies that Christ espoused as a living teacher demonstrate a significant problem with our faith. If we look at his philosophy Christ assuredly said that we are without a doubt our "brother's keeper" and this is not limited to our brothers (and sisters though the male translators of the Bible seemed to neglect them as well) who come into the church searching for help. It is our position to seek out those in need and help them as he did in his ministry. He offered help to all and did not make it contingent upon them "following" him.Our society is unique in the "Western" world in that we leave so many of our citizens to just scrape by and struggle with a far lower quality of life than those of us with wealth. Perhaps if we sought out those that we presume to "judge" as lazy or irresponsible, the way Ehrenreich searches them out, we might pursue humane policies based more upon human principles than upon economic principles.
4	1042502400	Nickel and Dimed is a documentary of a middle-aged, middle-class writer that goes undercover in a variety of low-wage positions: waitress in a family restaurant, hotel and in-home maid, nursing home helper, and Wal-Mart associate. Her goal is to determine whether these common jobs could support a single person. These jobs challenge the author's expectations. She learns that no one can tell the difference between her and the other low-wage workers; all her education and upbringing do not distinguish her. She also had her belief confirmed that it is difficult to support one person, let alone a family, on minimum wage. Throughout all this, Barbara keeps us entertained, with the sometimes funny, sometimes depressing, anecdotes of her experiences.Much of the benefits that the professional classes take for granted - affordable healthcare and flexible hours for example - mare not offered to the low-wage worker. This consciousness-raising book delivers the news that America's poor are not lazy - they have a much harder lot than many of us can imagine.Some have criticized Ehrenreich for her background, but it gave her a better perspective because it was so different. Having experienced the benefits of an autonomous writing career allowed her to make a comparison between that and the near-dictatorial nature of low-wage work. Some of her co-workers seemed almost content with conditions that Barbara realized were inherently unfair. It took someone from a different milieu to recognize the injustices fully, and the author was in a position to express these thoughts to a large audience.
5	1042416000	The American right espouses `compassionate' conservatism. Barbara Ehrenreich has tried to live by this vision - and found it not just wanting, but humiliating. As a healthy, intelligent woman on her own she tried hard to live with what she earned - around 7 $ per hour in 1999 - and failed. Not once - thrice - as a waitress in Miami, as scrubbing woman in Maine, and as a saleswoman in Minnesota. She tells the tale briskly, clearly, and deftly. Her book deserves to be read and pondered by all, but in particular by all those that cast aspersions on the poor, and like Dr. Higgins, chant: Why can't they be more like me?Her indictment is devastating: "The `working poor' are in fact the major philanthropists of our society. They neglect their own children so that the children of others will be cared for; they live in substandard housing so that other homes will be shiny and perfect; they endure privation so that inflation will be low and stock prices high."The market system makes it easy for us to forget the poor, even as the conservative ideology provides the justification for doing so. Conservative politics undermine the role of state and ensure the status of the deserving rich. As a result, we lack the likes of Dickens and Steinbeck today. Thank God we still have Barbara Ehrenreich.
4	1042329600	Ehrenreich is a clever--and likeable--writer, and the intention here appears noble enough: to assume the role of an underpaid laborer and report first-hand on the economic struggles of the lower class. It's been done before, of course, but it always makes for good reading.The book is insightful, entertaining, and informative, and it will, predictably, make liberals shudder with horror.Conservatives won't get past the introduction.Throughout the narrative, the reader is aware that Ehrenreich is a successful writer who will never have to worry about paying the weekly rent. This doesn't exactly undermine the credibility of the project, but I hoped to see something on the jacket about how the author contributed all of the proceeds from the book to the Salvation Army--or at least some grass roots organization that's fighting for workers' rights.It's also irritating to read the gushing endorsements on the back cover and elsewhere about what an important social statement the book makes--all written by upscale, well-paid literary types who never missed a meal in their lives.Nevertheless, it's timely to take a Steinbeck-ish look at the plight of the workers in America, and Ehrenreich does it with apparent good intentions.
5	1042243200	I tore through this book and would recommend it to anyone. It is a mix of politcal commentary/journalism, memoir, and travel diary. The working poor is the subject of this book, specifically, the myriad minefields awaiting anyone who lives in the U.S. and is struggling financially. Ehrenreich's observations show how intimately connected life factors can be: poverty and health; education and outlook; support systems and the breakdown of families due to societal problems. It is still fashionable to blame the poor for their condition, and the "American Dream" still has enough success stories to keep its stock value up. But the vast majority of working poor are living how the people in this book are. I believe this because I live in New York City and see for myself my own friends' and associates' lives, and how even with education, a supportive family and friend network, and a positive outlook, life can at times be excrutiatingly difficult. The divide between rich and poor grows ever wider in the U.S., and this book reveals in detail how wealth inequality affects a human life. It is shocking that a country as "advanced" and rich as the U.S. can not provide for its citizenry in a more humane fashion. Over time, the effects of not building a strong citizenry will come back to haunt this country. At this point in time, it apprears there is a working cadre sufficiently anesthetized to work for meager wages and fulfill their role at the bottom of the social heap. But lack of education, healthcare, lack of job preparedness and technological innovation will eventually become a burden on this society. The U.S. could be investing in its human resource and building a truly great nation. But clearly, as Ehrenreich's book shows, the working poor have been cast as "screw ups" who need to find the solutions themselves.
3	1041811200	The concept of this book intrigued me so I bought this book. A couple of my friends support families with minimum wage jobs and I just don't know how they do it. I just thought the research seemed a little flawed because I didn't feel she stuck around long enough to get more information from her coworkers about how their lives really were.
3	1041724800	After reading Nickel and Dimed I had a greater apprencience for the work force. I only being 16 years old haven't really truly been out there living on my own off my own salary. I have had the assistance of my family. I hadn't realized that getting a job could be so hard. I also hadn't known that with a job, or even two, sometimes there just isn't enough money to pay the bills. I learned how expensive living is, especially in today's world where the housing value is so expensive. I learned that there are people out there struggling with jobs to make enough money just to survive. I thought the book, made me think more about all the people out there who can't get high paying salary jobs and have to settle for minimum wage jobs, waitrising, or working at wal-mart. It made me think about how many people out there struggle to pay for food, and shelter. Not only jobless people face these hardships but people with jobs also face them too. This book made me open my eyes and realize how hard it is to survive in today's world.I thought that the author, Barbara Ehrenreich, deserves a lot of credit. She had a good career and she could have easily researched the topic without actually going out there and being part of the work force. She actually left her family and friends to research this topic. She took on a new, low paying, and life style. She didn't cheat her self by bringing extra money that she could use to stay in a nice hotel; instead she took on the living style of those who can't afford the expensive luxuries. She actually became a part of this low paying work force. There aren't many people who would give up a life style full of luxuries and without worries for a lifestyle full of extra hard work, plenty of bills, and a lot of headaches.I think that this book will make a lot of people realize that they shouldn't be petty or concentrate on the materialistic things in life. Instead they should just be happy to have a home, food, clothes, shelter, and benefits. This book will open the eyes of people who never had to worry about having a place to live.
5	1041724800	After 15 years of working in exactly the kinds of jobs  described in this book, I decided that everyone should have to do the same work for at least one day in their life. Now I think they should have to read this book while they are at it. Most people have no idea what kind of back breaking and degrading work  millions of people do for minimum wage. I hope Ms. Ehrenreich opens up some eyes.
3	1041724800	Jackie DiModicaNickel and DimedQuestion 3This book taught me alot on how I value my life. This book taught me not to take things for granted. For example when I go into a store and see something I like I buy it, even though I have enough shirts. I could have donated the money that I used to buy the shirt to buy some food for the poor.  She valued life from a different perspective after doing this experiment. Reading this book opened up my eyes alot it taught me something new on how I value my life.  I think Barbara was very brave to put her current life aside and, start a new life by working many different jobs and trying to live off of minimum wage.She found working all these different jobs very difficult, just trying to live off of minimum wage. She found it very tiring because, she would be going from job to job, just so she could make ends meat. One part of the book i didn't like was when Barbara decided to do this experiment and went off holding down many different jobs, to show how the real poor people try to make ends meat. These jobs that she has taken, real poor people that needed jobs could of had one of these jobs but, instead Barbara was working these jobs to show how the poor people actually lived.Other then that I found this book to be quite interesting. I would say that I learned a lot from this book. One thing that I learned was to go to college, and get a good education so I won't be working many different jobs, just so that i make ends meat so that i can survive. This book taught me not to take life for granted. After reading this book, it made me stop and think about what things i take for granted every day. It made me realize that i may not have some of the things that some of my friends might have, and i probably want them but i can't have them. I realized that i can be happy with what i have. There are people out in the world who want certain things, but can't have them because they can barely make ends meat.Barbara went through a tough time just doing this experiment, she was pratically living another life, she was living this life a lot differently then she would be living her normal life. While living this life she got frusterated and aggravated at times. There were times that she just wanted to stop doing this experiment, but she had faith in herself and kept going. She wasn't going to give up, because she was doing us a favor by showing us all the things that the poor people have to go through.  No one forced her to do this, she decided to do this on her own, and she has learned a lot from this even though through out time she had faced some hardships, but managed to get around them.This book also came as a shocker to me, I never knew that poor people went through this much trouble just trying to find a job so they can make ends meat and, occasionilly treat themselves to special things. I didn't realize surviving off of ends meat was that hard. Some people think that when you are living off of ends meat you can have a t.v., radio, computer, go out to eat, and buy brand name clothes. The truth is that you really can't you might be able to have a t.v. without cable and maybe a radio but that is even pushing it. I think if you were poor you would be spending your money wisely and not foolishly.
2	1041724800	THIS BOOK IS EXTREMELY WELL WRITTEN BUT THERE ARE DEFINITELY TWO PERSPECTIVES YOU CAN LOOK AT IT BY.THE FIRST PERSPECTIVE IS THAT SHE IS EXTREMLY BRAVE TO GIVE UP WHAT SHE HAS FOR A LITTLE WHILE AND WRITE ABOUT THESE WORKING AND POOR PEOPLE.  THE BOOK IS SO WELL WRITTEN BECAUSE SHE IS ACUALLY THERE.  SHE GOT TO KNOW THESE MEN AND WOMEN AND ACTUALLY WORK WITH THEM.  I FEEL THAT SHE PUT HER HEART AND SOUL INTO IT.  ANYONE COULD JUST WRITE ABOUT HOW THEY FEEL THE WORKING-POOR LIVE.  SHE WENT BEYOND THE ORDINARY AND ACTUALLY SET OUT TO LIVE AS ONE OF THEM.  IT'S NOT JUST THAT SHE'S WRITING ABOUT THIS LIFESTYLE AND SHE HAS NO IDEA WHAT SHE'S TALKING ABOUT... SHE WENT ALL THE WAY FROM FLORIDA TO MAINE! SHE WORKED AS SUCH PLACES AS WAL-MART, CLEANING COMPANIES, A NURSING HOME AND EVEN DINERS! SHE DID WHATEVER SHE COULD TO SURVIVE AND PAY RENT WHILE STILL NEEDING TO HAVE ENOUGH TO EAT.  SHE EVEN STRUGGLED WITH SOME JOBS BECAUSE SHE COULD BARELY AFFORD TO BUY THE PROPER PANTS THE COMPANY INSISTED SHE WEAR, BLACK OR KHAKI.tHE OTHER PERSPECTIVE IS THAT MAYBE BY GOING INTO THESE TOWNS AND TAKING THESE JOBS SHE IS DEPRIVING SOMEONE OF A JOB WHO ACTUALLY NEEDS ONE.  THEY MAY NEED TO SUPPORT THEIR FAMILIES OR EVEN JUST THEMSELVES.NO MATTER WHICH PERSPECTIVE YOU HAVE YOU NEED TO ADMIT THAT THIS BOOK IS DEFINITELY AN EYE-OPENER.  THIS BOOK DEFINITELY WASN'T MY FAVORITE BUT I KNOW MANY PEOPLE WHO ENJOYED IT. SO READ IT AND DEIDE FOR YOURSELF!
3	1041724800	After having read an excerpt of Nickle and Dimed in The Sun Magazine, my interest was piqued and thought I'd purchase a copy to see what I could learn from Ms. Ehrenreich's sobering experiment.  I'm unfortunately disappointed.  I admire Ms. Ehrenreich's guts in pulling this feat off.  I am discouraged though by her hypocrisy, her belittlement of her colleagues, and her sarcastic and biting whining.  Ms. Ehrenreich has enlightened me but her writing style is stifling and suffocating.  This is the first time in my life I have felt anger and rage reading a book not so much because of what I was reading but more so because of the author's contempt towards her indiscriminate subjects of the working class.
5	1041638400	It is a sad reality that many in this country think that one can get by on a wage of $7 an hour and that many think of people on welfare or in shelters as "lazy".  Ehrenreich dispels the myth that these people are truly lazy -- in reality, they cannot get decent work.  For those that claim that these people can work full-time and go to college, she dispels the myth of that in describing one of her co-workers ar Wal-Mart.I recommend this book for those in government and those who think they know abou society.
4	1041552000	What happens when a successful, middle-aged writer delves into the world of poverty and low-wage jobs?  She finds a whole new place that is much more complicated than she ever imagined.Becoming a low-wage laborer began as an experiment for Barbara Ehrenreich.  She felt that poverty would be a good topic to write about in her coming features in Harper's magazine and she was really interested in learning about how anyone could live on $6-7 an hour.  However, how would someone who had never been in a situation like that before be truly able to write about surviving on low wages?  Ehrenreich realized this little problem and volunteered herself to venture into the low-wage workforce in order to have a firsthand account and unforgettable experience.With only her laptop (to record her experiences), a car (she either used her own or rented one using her credit card), and $1,300 ($1000 for the first month's rent, $100 for her first batch of groceries, and $200 for emergencies), Ehrenreich started a cross-country tour into the low-wage workforce.  The journey began closest to home in Key West, Florida, where she rented trailers and usually found herself working two jobs at a time.  These jobs included waitressing at two different restaurants and the short-lived trial of housekeeping at a hotel.  Next, she moved to Maine's Portland area, where she stayed at motels, and worked both as a dietary aide serving the elderly and a member of a housekeeping team, known as The Maids.  Her last stop was in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where she stayed in hotels and worked as a Wal-Mart associate, rearranging and stocking the shelves of the ladies' department.Barbara Ehrenreich found herself in an array of jobs, living quarters, and places, but realized that being a low-wage worker was a difficult task no matter what your situation.  How well she did in her experiences was nothing compared what she learned.  One of the most important lessons that she gained was "no job, no matter how lowly, is truly `unskilled'" (193).  "Unskilled" refers to the jobs that many of the poor are forced to take, offering the lowest wages of all - usually $6-7 per hour.  Ehrenreich had a different opinion on the title given to these types of jobs, though.  She says of the "unskilled" jobs she came across, "Every one of the six jobs I entered into in the course of this project required concentration, and most demanded that I master new terms, new tools, and new skills - from placing orders on restaurant computers to wielding the backpack vacuum cleaner" (193).  Also, she found that many of the jobs she took on were physically demanding and "damaging if performed month after month" (195).  The working poor are extremely underpaid for the work that they have to face day in and day out.  Not only did she take on a new perspective on the types of jobs offered to the poor, but she saw what sacrifices the working poor were often forced to make.  For example, the low wages make it impossible to pay for medical care.  Once, when a co-worker broke her ankle on the job, she refused to stop working and went back into the house that she was cleaning at the time, scrubbing the bathrooms using only one foot.  When the choice between medical attention and losing out on some pay presents itself, the low-wage laborer usually skips the medical visit because every little earning counts.Most importantly, Ehrenreich opened up what was most likely a new world for her readers.  (Well, this was true in my situation, at least.)  What Ehrenreich learned in her experiences only broadened my scanty knowledge of what it is like to be a member of the working poor.  Every bit of knowledge she gained, I gained, too. Through her writing, she urges her readers to desire for a change in the work force.  I now know that the most important change that can be made in the low-wage working world is increased pay.  However, as a 16-year-old student, the most I can do is learn about the working poor and respect them for the sacrifices that they have to make to survive.  This book was a surprisingly entertaining and obviously knowledgeable read that I would recommend to anyone who wants to see what it is like to suddenly drop a middle-class lifestyle to learn what it is like to be a low-wage worker.
4	1041552000	What happens when a successful, middle-aged writer delves into the world of poverty and low-wage jobs?  She finds a whole new place that is much more complicated than she ever imagined.Becoming a low-wage laborer began as an experiment for Barbara Ehrenreich.  She felt that poverty would be a good topic to write about in her coming features in Harper's magazine and she was really interested in learning about how anyone could live on $6-7 an hour.  However, how would someone who had never been in a situation like that before be truly able to write about surviving on low wages?  Ehrenreich realized this little problem and volunteered herself to venture into the low-wage workforce in order to have a firsthand account and unforgettable experience.With only her laptop (to record her experiences), a car (she either used her own or rented one using her credit card), and $1,300 ($1000 for the first month's rent, $100 for her first batch of groceries, and $200 for emergencies), Ehrenreich started a cross-country tour into the low-wage workforce.  The journey began closest to home in Key West, Florida, where she rented trailers and usually found herself working two jobs at a time.  These jobs included waitressing at two different restaurants and the short-lived trial of housekeeping at a hotel.  Next, she moved to Maine's Portland area, where she stayed at motels, and worked both as a dietary aide serving the elderly and a member of a housekeeping team, known as The Maids.  Her last stop was in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where she stayed in hotels and worked as a Wal-Mart associate, rearranging and stocking the shelves of the ladies' department.Barbara Ehrenreich found herself in an array of jobs, living quarters, and places, but realized that being a low-wage worker was a difficult task no matter what your situation.  How well she did in her experiences was nothing compared what she learned.  One of the most important lessons that she gained was "no job, no matter how lowly, is truly `unskilled'" (193).  "Unskilled" refers to the jobs that many of the poor are forced to take, offering the lowest wages of all - usually $6-7 per hour.  Ehrenreich had a different opinion on the title given to these types of jobs, though.  She says of the "unskilled" jobs she came across, "Every one of the six jobs I entered into in the course of this project required concentration, and most demanded that I master new terms, new tools, and new skills - from placing orders on restaurant computers to wielding the backpack vacuum cleaner" (193).  Also, she found that many of the jobs she took on were physically demanding and "damaging if performed month after month" (195).  The working poor are extremely underpaid for the work that they have to face day in and day out.  Not only did she take on a new perspective on the types of jobs offered to the poor, but she saw what sacrifices the working poor were often forced to make.  For example, the low wages make it impossible to pay for medical care.  Once, when a co-worker broke her ankle on the job, she refused to stop working and went back into the house that she was cleaning at the time, scrubbing the bathrooms using only one foot.  When the choice between medical attention and losing out on some pay presents itself, the low-wage laborer usually skips the medical visit because every little earning counts.Most importantly, Ehrenreich opened up what was most likely a new world for her readers.  (Well, this was true in my situation, at least.)  What Ehrenreich learned in her experiences only broadened my scanty knowledge of what it is like to be a member of the working poor.  Every bit of knowledge she gained, I gained, too. Through her writing, she urges her readers to desire for a change in the work force.  I now know that the most important change that can be made in the low-wage working world is increased pay.  However, as a 16-year-old student, the most I can do is learn about the working poor and respect them for the sacrifices that they have to make to survive.  This book was a surprisingly entertaining and obviously knowledgeable read that I would recommend to anyone who wants to see what it is like to suddenly drop a middle-class lifestyle to learn what it is like to be a low-wage worker.
5	1041206400	Ehrenreich went "undercover" and worked as a minimum wage worker and did so in order to better convey the epidemic of poverty that exists here in the world's richest nation. Millions of Americans have to struggle to survive and have no time or resources to attain an education or escape the poverty they were born into. Health coverage in this country continues to leave millions of Americans (including children) out in the cold and having to crowd into free clinics where the resources are limited and less than adequate. This is the reality that the wealth elites would have the masses not scrutinize. Instead, we get the whole "pull yourselves up by your bootstraps" garbage. That's fine if you're born into a stable family and have had the advantage of going to safe and relatively competent schools (which I have had), but it is foolish to believe that those people who lack these advantages can simply rise above their lot in life without some aid (either in education or at least providing all Americans with basic food, shelter, and health coverage). What is perhaps even more disconcerting are the number of poor and middle class Americans who have bought into the whole conservative myth that the rich are the ones being discriminated against because people want to take away their hard-earned money! Exactly how hard does a person who inherits millions work? Does a CEO work any harder than a lifelong construction worker? It's about fairness. After a certain point, the money you've earned can be increased through investments and not hard work. And without an education and the means to attain wealth, the poor masses remain stuck in the position they were born into while the rich and privileged continue to pull the wool over the eyes of their supporters by duping them into believing that minimum wage is a livable wage. Not here in California it isn't. I work and go to school and barely scrape by, but I'm not going to complain. It's the people that I've known and still know who are stuck working low paying jobs and I see them barely making rent payments and going without health insurance that troubles me. Ehrenreich shows through example that working minimum wage jobs is not enough for survival in this country (even in states where the cost of living isn't as high as here in California or New York etc.). Not to mention the fact that the work is itself extremely taxing and no doubt there are many workers who toil their entire lives only to die in abject poverty and all so the very rich can keep their hoarded billions in a form of gluttony and greed that is pointless and contrary to the American dream. Ehrenreich has done us all a great service and this book is definitely worth checking out.
2	1041033600	In a previous reveiw of this book it was written, &quot;Anyone who is curious about why poor people can't stop being poor should read this book.&quot;Typical of the sort that should read this garbage and consider themselves &quot;enlightened&quot; as to the difficulties millions of Americans face.Buy the book, throw it onto the passenger seat of your Ford Expedition, and read it while waiting for Brittany or Blake to finish soccer practice.
5	1040947200	Hopefully someone will leave a copy of this book in the office of every &quot;Big Box&quot; executive.  Working two jobs and still not being able to afford decent housing is inexcusable in this country which is overflowing with excess.  Barbara Ehrenreich's experiences were authentic for the time she worked the three jobs and provided a window to truths the &quot;powers that be &quot; choose to ignore.  Life should not be so hard, read this book.
1	1040860800	The author went out to prove her thesis that it is impossible to live on minimum wage and guess what--she proved it!  What a surprise.I wanted this book to provoke thought and make me uncomfortable, but I could not get past the author's incessant whining, corporate bashing and misinterpretation of constitutional rights.  I am fiscally and socially a conservative.  I enjoy reading books from both sides of the aisle--I had hoped this book might be an interesting story.  It isn't.I believe the point at which I completely tuned out was when the author implied rights and protections afforded to the citizens of the US by our constitution--protections from government--should somehow be used to protect workers from "evil" corporations.  It was amazing at how far the left will go to make a point.  It is as if the framers of the constitution believed and spent their time creating a constitution to protect us from "evil" business owners and corporations, and that ALL are inherently evil. What a stretch!Please find another book.  There must be some intellectually honest books (on the left) which can provoke and stimulate thought and discourse.
4	1040342400	Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrenreich is a new, unique, hands-on analysis of the working poor in America. The book takes the reader to three regions of the country and demonstrates the struggles endured by countless people including the author. In the book, some not widely known facts about certain large corporations are brought to light which would make anxious many baby boomers who's parents worked from nothing to provide them with a better life a reality check that there are still many people who have a hard time getting by in American culture.This book attempts to pique the reader into contemplating whether our current treatment of the poor is adequate or whether there is another way.This a must-read for any economist, public policy maker, and businessman. It has a lot to offer anyone who has strong opinions on what they think America is all about.
5	1040169600	The book, Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America, written by Barbara Ehrenreich, is an intelligent and witty account of the author's personal experiences as she goes undercover as a low wage worker.  It is thought provoking and insightful, and provides a deep understanding of the struggles faced by low wage earners.  It serves as a conscience for all of us as we interact with those who serve us in restaurants, hotels, and stores.  Working poor are often treated as if their presence is not worthy of recognition.Ehrenreich demonstrates that the difficulties faced throughout her journey are wide spread, and are not limited to a specific city or part of the country.  Ehrenreich worked as a waitress in Key West, Florida, as a cleaning woman and nursing aid in Portland, Maine, and as a floor clerk for Wal-Mart in Minneapolis, Minnesota.  Each of these jobs paid approximately seven dollars an hour, which was barely enough to provide for her bare essentials.  She struggled with housing, food, transportation, and miscellaneous expenses that pushed her over her budget.  She was often forced to make compromises such as staying in cheap hotels while she searched for a place to live.Despite her own struggles, she recognized the hardships of less fortunate individuals and made efforts to reach out and befriend them.  She became an advocate for her co-workers.  One time she was working as a cleaning woman on a crew and another member, Holly, injured her ankle but was afraid to get assistance from the manager.  Ehrenreich recollects, "I blow.  I can't remember the exact words, but I tell him [Ted the manager] he can't keep putting money above his employees' health and I don't want to hear about `working through it,' because this girl is in really bad shape (p. 110)."  This is just one example of how the author puts her own welfare on the line for the sake of another.  It also points out how invested she became in her role as a low wage earner.Ehrenreich found that one low wage job was insufficient to cover necessary expenses.  She tried holding down two jobs, but quickly found that this was not as easy as she had hoped, as it quickly exhausted her physical and emotional stability.  In a moment of complete and utter exhaustion, she realized that she was unable to meet the demands of two jobs, and just walked out.  "... clearly I have failed.  Not only had I flamed out as a housekeeper/server, I had forgotten to give George my tips, and, for reason perhaps best known to hardworking, generous people like Gail and Ellen, this hurts.  I don't cry, but I am in a position to realize, for the first time in many years, that the tear ducts are still there and still capable of doing their job (p. 48)."  This moment crystallized her understanding of how hard the work is along with how much stamina is required.  Being smart and educated will not provide her with protection.In the final analysis, Ehrenreich creates a window into the pain and suffering of a large number of Americans who work for small amounts of money and obtain few benefits.  Despite these dismal conditions, she colorfully outlined the inner strength and the human bonds that are formed which help sustain these workers throughout their lives.  Ehrenreich's insights cannot help but leave a reader with respect and admiration for the low paid worker who plays an essential role in the American economy.
5	1040083200	This book was a great read. I enjoyed reading about all of the different things that she had to do to just keep a roof over her head. Having a minimum wage job and that being your only source of income is something that is very hard to do. It is virtually impossible if you have someone else to support because you can barely support yourself. If someone had to do that here in Santa Monica it wouldn't be possible because rent nowadays is nearly $1,000 a month for most areas. Then adding your other bills you would probably not even be able to live on your own. Barbara Ehrenreich does a good job in this book conveying that so many people are treated unfairly and can't live comfortably and live check to check because of their minimum paycheck.
1	1039219200	This book really pisses me off. Here's why:I appreciate the initiative Einrich took in trying to live in the working poor's shoes, but what kind of benefit does she see in addressing this subject? Which is a better solution, to have 12 million women pushed out of the welfare system, and into jobs that pay below living wage, or to have them sitting at home at our expense? We are very lucky in this country. Even the poor have a vastly higher standard of living than in 2/3rds of the world. News Flash: we are not socialist. Americans get to live as either kings, beggars, or somewhere in between, based primarily on a capitalist system. Survival of the fittest, or at least the fit, and to hell with the rest. I'm classify myself as a liberal democrat, but the author promotes the kind of "I'm not responsible" thought that plagues this country at all levels, and is likely responsible for many of our social ills. Liberalism needn't imply irresponsibility, mental helplessness, entitlement, or defeatism, and Barbara Einrich ought to be embarrased of her promotion of this new "ideal."Also, I have taken many drug tests in my life, since they are mandatory at basically all major companies in the US (Ford Motor, Pfizer, US Government, etc.) I don't consider them degrading, just a fact. (Although, I don't approve of drug laws.)Another thing: The trick question "Everyone works a little better when they're high" is not a trick, unless you're stupid, in which case I see it as a perfectly valid employment question.
5	1039132800	Barbera Ehrenrich illustrates that there is a mean and cynical side to the people in this country.  If you criticize her as whiny or not honest or aver the "I was there and it wasn't like that then," misses the point and I would hate to have you as a boss, because you're a mean person.  She did this to see if a welfare mother could make it as an entry-level wage employee and she demonstrated that there is no way to make it on your own as a single person with no children.  That you have to rely on family or friends, that you are treated with disrespect by employers, that our modern transportation network and zoning laws are a major obstacle, that a working stove and refrigerator is a luxury, that fresh, healthy foods can be a luxury, that the point where poor people make the trade-off between health and work is lower than any feeling, much less objective, person is comfortable with.  Thank you, Barbera for showing me in new ways just how rich I am.  My increased empathy for the poor has forever been set in concrete.
5	1039046400	This book is well written and thought provoking, and exposes some major fallacies in welfare reform theory.  I am constantly questioning how my colleagues in the retail industry  survive on their salaries, which in most cases, are several dollars above the current minimum wage.  (I do it only because I am single, have no children and several roommates, and gracious family members who have helped me finance my higher education.)  Ehenreich goes beyond the grim statistics and uses her personal experiences to provide a meaningful glimpse into the culture of low-income, mostly uneducated working women. She does a great job at exposing the "profit over people" motive of many U.S. corporations ... , and she does it without sounding overly self-righteous as she is acutely aware of her own priviledge.  It's too bad most working women won't get to read this book because they are too tired after long days scrubbing pubic hair out of bathtubs, stocking lightbulbs for dear Mr. Walton, and serving out their roles in the master-slave relationships that modern day capitalist economies demand.  If you are self absorbed and only concerned about making money and/or believe in the time-worn false cliche that "it is possible for everyone to pull themselves up by their own bootstraps" I hope nobody gives you this book for Christmas or your birthday because you will not like it very much.  Three cheers for Barbara Ehenreich...
2	1038873600	I disagree with the findings of this book. I'm poor. I started off working at 7.20 per hour at the job I have now. I opted to live with roommates to save money, rather than live alone as Erenreich does. I worked really hard, asked for raises and now I make 10.85. I live quite comfortably, I have enough money to go to school and go out. This book essentially says that America is a bad place to live. This is far from the truth. Ehrenreich should go try the same experiment in Ethiopia and then she might have a different opinion about America.
4	1038787200	In her latest social commentary, Nickel and Dimed, Barbara Ehrenreich went undercover to experience, for herself, life as an "unskilled worker." In order to find out how anyone could survive on $7 an hour Ehrenreich left behind her life as a prominent member of the press, and underwent a journalistic foray into the world of the "low-paid" worker. For three month-long spans between 1999 and 2000, she took her car, laptop, and $1000 to three completely new locations and attempted to sustain herself while following her three rules. First, her educational background must not be a factor in her employment; second, she would take the job that paid the most; third, she would take the housing with the lowest costs while maintaining a suitable standard of living. Even as a healthy, white, native English speaker without the burdens of childcare or transportation issues, Ehrenreich soon experienced the mental and physical hardships that accompany life as a low-paid worker.She worked as a waitress in Key West Florida, a cleaning woman and a nursing home assistant in Maine, and finally a sales representative for Wal-Mart. She quickly noticed the limitations of her new life. At seven to eight dollars an hour, she found herself confined to "flophouses and trailer homes". Her food situation became restricted to fast foods and the cheapest of deli foods. She also was forced to deprive herself of many activities she had enjoyed in her previous life. Not only was she not making money, but her principal was actually shrinking and eventually in Maine, she was forced to hold down two simultaneous jobs in order to supplement her rapidly diminishing savings. Unfortunately, even while holding two jobs, she found herself slipping further and further out of her sense of financial security.The true thrill of this book is not the exciting conclusion that Ehrenreich draws from her experiences as a member of the lower class, but her experiences along the way. Ehrenreich learned of the many injustices that plague these overlooked workers. She proves that no job is truly unskilled, and the "working poor" are as diligent as an executive or a journalist. However, it seems that no matter how hard they work they still seem to find themselves moving toward homelessness or worse. Their wages remain outrageously low, while their rent and expenses continue to rise astronomically.Through this passionately written book, Ehrenreich tries to give an inside perspective into the challenges that millions of Americans face everyday, but that many of us may never experience. She gains an edge over any Academic, Economist, or Social Scientist through her personal approach. Actual accounts of people's lives give a private touch that draws us into the book. She writes in detail about full-time employees who cannot afford housing and are forced to sleep in their cars thus refuting the theory that a full time job assures the basic necessities of life. She addresses the invisibility of the poor to those living in the upper-middle class or as she terms, the "other half" (217). She tackles the economics of the lower working class and gives insight into the never ending cycle of poverty.In a clear-cut style all her own, Ehrenreich confidently takes on these issues and addresses other potent subjects like the "living wage." She fits the "working poor" into the national economy and culture by deducing that the "working poor are the major philanthropists of our society." It is a masterfully written, humorous, and irate account of lower working-class America. Recommended to anyone who has ever had a job.
4	1038787200	The point of Ehrenreich's book was not to bash Americans who work, it was to point out the disparity between the AMOUNT of work they do and the compensation they recieve for it. She not only does this with the details of her own experiment, but with extensive economic analysis at the end of the book. She's on your side people! The truth is that low-wage workers are often prevented from recieving 40 hours per week, thereby entitling them to insurance benefits, and that the average wage paid out for these jobs might support one person, but without a second wage earner in the home, they will in no way support an entire family.She is talking here not about well-spoken, well-educated college students, who can earn hundreds of dollars a night serving in upscale restaurants. Sure, if you have a job in Bennigan's or Friday's, you can claim to earn "only" $2 an hour, but we know that's not true, don't we? She is talking instead about people who work in so-called "greasy spoon" restaurants, earning maybe $30 in tips on an 8-hour shift. I've been there, she's right about these people.If this book didn't change your life and the way you view the working world around you, you're obviously scared.
4	1038528000	I have jsut read this book and the reviews on Amazon.com.  As usual, some of the reviewers miss the point.  The point of this book is NOT whether the author should/should not have a cash cushion, should/should not have taken a roommate, etc., etc.The point of this book is that: (1) this country is filled with honest, serious, people dedicated to doing a good job no matter what that job is -- no matter how dirty, how tiring, or how they may be looked down on for doing that work AND (2) in spite of their hard work, honesty, and dedication to doing a good job, these people cannot make sufficient salary to afford a decent place to live, to save the assets necessary to improve themselves, or to support a family.Folks who have read this book need now to read:  "Fast Food Nation," by Eric Schlosser; and these two books by Jim Hightwoer -- "There's Nothing in the Middle of the Road but Yellow Stripes and Dead Armadillos" and "If the Gods Meant Us to Vote They Would Have Given Us Candidates."
4	1038182400	On one level I'm not terribly impressed by Ms. Ehrnereich's &quot;experiment.&quot;  I think that most people who have worked their way through college with low-paying jobs have had many of the same experiences that she had.  I had a couple of bosses who made some of hers seem easy-going by comparison.  I have plenty of stories from my low-income years about how niggardly wealthy people can be as well.  What I don't have is Ms. Ehrenreich's wit and style.  I've been through similar experiences to her's but it was still fun hearing what she had to say about them.  This isn't a book that changed my life or opened my eyes to social inequities but it was a good read and I recommend it.
1	1038182400	I'd like to give this book a zero star rating but unfortunatly for us this isn't an option.  This so called research project and its resulting insult is just about the most selfserving piece of work I have read in years.  I'd call it complete dripple except that its too insulting to too many hard working people and the people who appreciate and even rely on them. This book actually does harm.  Barb is either self-centered at best or an out and out bigot at worst and since she takes so many fortuitous pot shots I'm betting on the latter.  Spreading ones condescension around does not make for fair play. And who let this stuff get out there?  Where's the editorial staff? Shame on all of you.
3	1038009600	Wow, I didn't know I was so poor working as a food server. Interesting, I put myself though a 4 year university working part-time as a food server for a national restaurant chain. My average tips paid for schooling, books, an apartment (fully furnished on the beach) a car (2 year old Toyota tercel), a trip to Jamaica and a graduation trip to Europe. Oh I didn't mention the state I worked in during the 1990's had a tip credit so my wage was $2.01 a hour. I must have been really poor.But this book isn't about getting by, which can be done very easily if you budget correctly. Instead this book is about bashing the majority of Americans. It is about bashing us because we have pride in the job that we do. To Barbara Ehrenreich any person who works for another is demeaning themselves. She uses the salary she is paid as a smokescreen to put forward her abnormal views on the work ethic of Americans.This book is an affront to anyone who works, I personally don't like being put down because I have pride in my job. Maybe, just maybe that is why all those people who do have pride in their work seem to move up the company ladder and become moderately successful while those like Ms. Ehrenreich seem to stagnate at the bottom, bitter and upset, never wanting to put forward the effort to EARN something more for themselves.
4	1037404800	The facts and research in this book has been very informing and enlightening, especially as I have never really considered the tribulations and hardships faced by people in low - income situations.  I think the author, Barbara Ehrenreich is a gifted journalist, and I feel like I have a new and more realistic view on employees I encounter in relatively low - paying positions.  Working at Mcdonalds isn't the 'all - American, teenager's first job' retrospective anymore.The aspect that spoiled this book for me was the rare, yet ignorant and degrading lingo or stereotype professed by the author : once, something unfair was referred to as "niggardly" ; when referring to the workforce in California, the worry stated was that  " ... the Latinos might be hogging all the [bad] jobs and substandard housing for themselves, as they so often do."  I felt these comments were very rude, not to mention offensive as our country is very diverse and you will encounter all ethnicities in various social and economic classes.I believe the author has captured the situation and mentality of a person / family in a low - income situation very well - the pain and hardship, making you realize what you take for granted.  However, some things mentioned in reveiws about this book already (like the author spending 9 dollars a day on fast food) is probably not accurate for the average low - income person.  Also, when the author wasn't raging about the outrage of corportations and the rich, at times wrote in a very pitiful and condescending manner about the economic class she is not apart of but is only pretending - as a Ph.D who REALLY lives in the affluent, tourist driven Key West demographic, this is merely role-playing for her.In conclusion, I must say that the author as a journalist did a super job reporting the facts and executing the research, but I do not particularly care for her mentality or personal opinions.  Should be read by everyone but not everyone should take up the author's outlooks.
2	1037404800	and finds out in chapter:1) that actually working for a living sucks;2) it is humiliating to have to use your brain in real life; after all, it's just cleaning toilets, right?3) sexism, classism and racism DO affect job performance - if you're a paranoid victicrat, which most of you are!4) it's time for class warfare, baby.Understanding that Americans don't want to become the welfare states that Europe has become, this author resorts to attacking policies that try to get people off welfare. In this area she provides more problems than answers. Why this book is so popular is because it appeals to a sort of "working class angst", a general sentiment by this generation who thinks they've had it worse than anyone else, and blames "government policy", "corporate greed" and other social-problem buzzwords for their troubles in the workplace. Her vision of this angst is not even accurate either - the low point in this book is where she laments that it is considered less socially acceptable for female employees to cuss in the store. Talk about picking your battles! Martha Burke would be proud. Ms. Ehrenreich needs to understand, for people who don't write rubbish like this for a living, creating a friendly atmosphere for the customers, whether you be a MAN or a WOMAN - is the name of the game, not preserving personal principles like your right to cuss as much as your male counterparts! There are also other golden moments where she whines about her job getting in the way of her holier-than-thou liberal ideals. Her condescending writing doesn't even resonate with the working class, as she assumes poor people only aspire to be "trailer trash".Of course, she deserves a second star for her ability to maintain a steady following of fools who majored in drivel such as English, gender studies or sociology while in school; their only consolation being to nod in agreement with this book while waiting in the unemployment line.
5	1036713600	This is a powerful, sad book.  Anyone who is curious about why poor people can't stop being poor should read this book.  Anyone who has ever stiffed a waitperson or left a messy dressing room for a salesperson to clean up should read it, too.
5	1036627200	My dad lived through the great union revolt back in the 1930s and 1940s. He was a union steward when the workers finally said "no" to low pay, long hours and mistreatment. In the same way, these Walmart Workers and maid services have to go on strike and the government must protect their right to form unions. After reading this book, the readers also know the story of poverty. They share the guilt if they don't support and vote for politicians who will help. This last election certainly points to the mood of America, and it is again selfish and antitax oriented. Until this rich country is willing to share, society will just get meaner and more self-absorbed with the trappings of wealth.by Larry Rochelle, ...
4	1036454400	Barbara Ehrenreich takes an inside look at what it's like to be one of the &quot;working poor.&quot;  She spent three months at three widely differing locations (Key West, Portland ME, and Minneapolis, MN) trying to make a go of it working for 6-7 dollars per hour.  In spite of her advantages of good health, education, a car, and a fund to supply her with a deposit on a rental; she needed to work two jobs, seven days a week to barely survive.Two points that struck me over and over were 1) no matter where you go, there is NO affordable housing and 2) during possibly the most prosperous decade in the century, wages never increased on the lower end of the job scale (fast food, retail clerking, waitressing, house cleaning).  Though at almost every Wendy's and Wal-Mart across the country, there are big &quot;Help Wanted&quot; signs, the wages are and remain at a flat six to seven dollars an hour.The author does an excellent job of describing her various job duties, many of them far more complex than you would ever dream, and humanizing her fellow workers and her interactions with them.  The crunch for many people is the inability to put up a rental deposit plus the first month's rent for a place to live.  The practice of the large chains and fast food industry of deferring the first week's pay for a week or ten days is frequently devastating. Advising people to cook up a big stew and make their own bread to cut food expenses is quite beside the point when they have nowhere to cook.  Ms. Ehrenreich points out general health is poor because they rarely have health insurance and cannot afford to take any time off for illness.  The work is usually strenuous, and bad backs and pulled muscles are endemic.The author has a built-in bias against people who do not clean their own houses.  Her trials and tribulations as a housecleaner are sometimes unintentionally funny, but the grueling work and the indignities suffered are very real.  Her solutions are breathtaking in scope and possibly too sweeping to have a chance of fulfillment. However, the ever-increasing disparity between &quot;working poor&quot; and &quot;lower-middle class&quot; must be addressed and acted upon soon before we have a huge transient peasant class always on the verge of homelessness.The next time you drive by a beautifully &quot;gentrified&quot; section of your town, ask yourself &quot;where did the poor people go?&quot; And keep in mind, that person &quot;flipping burgers at Mickey D's&quot; is working long, grueling hours on their feet for very little pay.  &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; is highly readable.  It may make you uncomfortable, but it is well worth the time.
4	1036454400	No subject matter seems to get people as excited blatheringnonsense as income inequality, low wage worker and "what's wrong",i.e. the good old rich versus poor debate.  This book is a goodbook to read, in particular given the reviews you see above.I'll explain why and then give my brief review.You know people have an agenda reviewing when they spend moretime trying to refute what the author says or paint the author'sexperience in a bad light that talking of what the book is about.So you'll have to read the book to see why some of the reviewsare actually quite biased and have an agenda (easy to spotin this case).The book is about an experiment: can a person live on minimum-wage in America during the 1998-2000 economic boomin a self-sustaining manner?  The author, a writer in normallife, decides to try the experiment and sets some reasonablerules.  She doesn't stick with them at every single moment, but one cansee the reasons for it (although it does distort the experimentfrom a strictly scientific view).  She finds, not surprisingly,that if you are alone and try to have a place to yourself,you can not survive on minimum-wage.  The author could havetried to share living space, but since she was also trying to see if allthe welfare-mothers being booted of welfare could survive,and since many working folks have children, the fact that shechose to have a place to herself would balance for the costsshe did not have to pay for: child health care, school and/ordaycare, and feeding the kid (and losing time taking care ofhim/her and not sleeping).The book is well written.  The language is clear and straightforward.  The author is a bit bitter and does complain a lotabout the structure of the situation she is in and does indulgein ranting against the rich folks (and their houses) that shehas to clean in one episode.  But the relevant thing this bookshows is how the whole problem is structural: almost any person,regardless of who they are, will likely develop the attitudeshe has given the way the social system is set up andrules and attitudes that prevail, all of them "rational"and easy to understand (sadly).I "enjoyed" reading this book:  one sees low-wage service laborall around, but does one know what it is really like?  Wheredo these folks live?  What to they eat?  Can they afford to livealone?  Or do they have to shack up with lots of other folksin dirty places essentially in perptuity (yes)?It is a book that puts the "prosperity" of the 90s intoperspective, one that anyone not making the big bucks in theinternet stuff or wall street knows about first hand.  Despitesolid economic growth, inequality in wealth and income has increased in the last 30 years, wages haven't budged much since 1970, and folks have to work much harder and for longer hours (and both spouses) just to have more or less the same level of living. Unless you're in the top 10% of the wealth bracket: then you've been doing just fine.  This is a structural problem andthe book talks about it in a simple, everyday, nose to thegrindstone way.A good wake up call in case you weren't paying attention towhat is going on around you in the real world.  If you have,then you should still read this book to understand the dayto day problems faced by the working poor (or even lower middle class).
2	1036022400	If whining turns you on then this is the book for you.It's too bad because there are some salient points here, particularly concerning the economics of trying to make ends meet on entry level wages. Unfortunately the author would rather complain about supervision, pre-employment screening and consumers who have the audacity to use products or services provided by low wage workers.
4	1035676800	I found this book very interesting both in its topic and its approach. I now find myself more aware of employees and grateful for their help in the stores and establishments I go to that are similar to those depicted in the book.Unlike some readers, I didn't take the book from a political standpoint, but rather from a human one. Nor did I choose to question the authenticity of her experiment.This book simply made me more grateful for things I tend to take for granted and after I closed it, I found myself counting my blessings...
3	1035504000	I found myself sympathizing with the author's plight, but couldn't help forgetting she had the option to return to her comfortable world. The real poor don't. Still, we need all the light we can shine on this very real often overlooked problem. For more on this subject, I'd recommend Affluenza and a novel called Only in America for an in-depth look at underemployment and the toll it takes on both spirit and body. Whatever you think of this book, Ms. Ehrenreich deserves credit for addressing the subject matter period.
5	1035244800	While this work does have it's faults, they are few in number.The book draws attention to a very, very common and worrisome problem our country faces.  The book is quite well written.  Admittedly, the author is examining problems through eyes (hers) that cannot possibly, fully understand the plight her subjects face day after day, she nevertheless hits pretty close to the mark, all things considered. I do feel it would be good if she did some follow up at a later date.  I would like to hear and read more.  Thank you Ms Ehrenreich for the research and writing.
5	1035158400	Wow, before reading this book if you would have told me that it was hard to live on $7 an hour I probably would have said ok, but I am sure it is not that hard.  Then I read this book which detailed out sleeping in your car and having meals of just hot dog buns, this really drove the point home to me how hard it would be.  This author took a year off of her normal job to live in three different parts of America and work at entry-level jobs.  I guess the word "live" would imply a bit of a comfortable or even safe lifestyle, which, given the slums she had to live in is an over statement.The author sums up the book with some liberal leanings, but overall does not present a bunch of big government solutions to the problem.  I do not think that was her point nor what she is good at.  What she did do is present what life is like at the lowest rung of the current American economic ladder which is really eye opening.  She is adding her voice to help a segment of the population that can not effectively speak for themselves in one of the richest countries ever.  That is probably the most shocking thing for me, you would expect these kind of sad stories of poverty in parts of Africa, Asia or Central America, but not Key West Florida.  Overall it was an entertaining and interesting book that you can finish in a weekend.
3	1035072000	Barbara Ehrenreich actually puts herself in the position of a minimum-wage worker to get the full "minimum-wage experience."  She records her journey of going through numerous job interviews, drug tests, and orientations only to finally get hired at a job paying a mere ... an hour.  She reports her struggles of finding decent housing that is not only affordable to her small budget but also not too far from her job or jobs.  Ehrenreich juggles up to two phsically-demanding jobs a day while still striving to meet her bills.  She shows her surprise at some of the other employees she comes across through several jobs, and how they manage to do all she does while injured, sick, or even pregnant!  Many of these workers have children or families to support from their salary alone.  Ehrenreich is astonished at how hard these people work and how little they get in return.  This document truly opens your eyes to how far some people will go to meet their needs (or at least some of them), and how most people do not realize the injustices they suffer every day.
3	1034812800	After having recently read &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; the first thing that stuck with me was Ehrenreich's skill as a writer. The prose is deft, and it reads well no matter what your preference (fiction, biography, &amp;c.) happens to be. Comparisons with Orwell, especially &quot;Wigan Pier&quot; are accurate, though I would not go as far as to say that anyone is in his league today as a writer or social critic. There are only a few class assumptions that give me pause, thus the three (3.5 if I could) star choice. The first is the assumption that a journalist lives at an upper-middle, or at least (to borrow from Orwell) a lower-upper-middle class life standard. Some do, but the wage scale for a working journalist is far closer to the Home Depot ballpark than the author's. Second, the experiment does have a certain lack of Gestalt, as she lives only a month at a time in a given place, and one would have to suppose some of her upper-middle class background skews some real-life elements about this particular living standard. Ehrenreich, to her credit, makes no secret of this, which is a tribute to her honesty and integrity. I would say that middle- to upper-middle class people should absolutely read this. There is a lot of information that working-class people would take as a priori, but for the BoBos of the world, this is a very revealing book. She deserves further credit for the illuminating discovery that living standard is not really determined as a result of intelligence or work ethic, pointing out that as a PhD. holder, she is not found to have any distinguishing differences from her fellow laborers in the experiment. Despite misgivings about some of the aforementioned assumptions (I think that a person in this income bracket could have written such a book; but how would s/he get published without credentials?) the quality of the prose and the fact that a person in Barbara Ehrenreich's position could even comprehend the state of the Union below the poverty lane make this a must read.
3	1034726400	I started this book with the hopes that she might get some real insight into what it's like to be a wage slave.  To have to worry about how much money is coming, to never be able to take a day off, to have to work through whatever ailments you have.  Unfortunately this book comes across more as a higher middle class woman &quot;slumming it.&quot;  From the very beginning she is realizes that she is set apart because she has her real life to fall back on.  She doesn't deal with being forced to share an apartment because she can't afford one alone.  She always has a car and she never goes without eating because she is cannot afford to.  She always has a &quot;real life&quot; to fall back on.  So each expedition into lower class wage slave is more like a sadomasochistic vacation.At one point she even mentions that she isn't willing to go to California because the Hispanics had &quot;hogged all the low paying jobs&quot;.  As if these people wanted so much to work multiple jobs.All of this is not to say she doesn't gain some valuable insight into the working world.  She came to understand that despite how lowly a job may be that people tend to take pride in their work, and how despite their income how they try to make it easier for one another.Unfortunately because the book is so short you rarely get a feel for the people she meets.  You have to take her word for what they are like.  This makes the whole book feel rushed.At the end she has a chapter summing up her experiences.  While it is a well thought out piece of writing it lacks any feeling for the desperation which the people she was trying to emulate feel every day.
2	1034640000	The author certainly has a great idea, and is to be commended for undertaking this project.  Yet there is strong evidence that she entered into the project with the notion that living on the minimum wage would be impossible, and therefore did her best to fail.How else to explain her failure to share lodgings with another, something most of us have done somewhere along the line.  There is simply no reason for a single person not to be able to share lodgings with two or three other people in order to make ends meet.  Admittedly, finding roommates might not be easy for someone who flits around the country "sampling" the job market, but for real people this is a necessary option.  Likewise, the author eats most of here meals in fast food and other restaurants.  Again, real people would quickly find that foods like beans, rice, pasta and potatos, cooked at home, are virtually free.Ehrenreich is honest about her views towards employers, business and the wealth, and quite frankly she doesn't like any of them.  She finds much work too demeaning for anyone to do.  Cleaning toilets almost causes fainting spells when she has to deal with pubic hairs or even fecal matter in the toilet or under the seat.  When some soapy toilet water dribbles on her shoe she has to supress the immediate urge to discard the shoe.  You know, we've all cleaned toilets before.  It isn't that awful.While working as a maid, the author is clearly offended that the rich seem to like John Grisham books.  For pete's sake, what's wrong with liking John Grisham?The author seems to think that employee theft and employee drug use are just fine and dandy.  Efforts by employers to eliminate both are presented by the author as silly, demeaning and ineffective.  When there is a theft from a restaurant where the author is a waitress, she clearly sides with the thief.Despite the fact that studies show that drug users are much, much more likely to have an accident on the job or to miss extra days of work, the author is clearly hostile to any effort of employers to protect themselves.  Given that achieving a drug-free workplace is the public policy of this nation, the author's views are clearly off-base.On a personal level, I certainly would not want to get by on the minimum wage.  But I, like many readers of this book, attended college, where I found the basic costs of living to be quite low, since I shared my housing with others and cooked affordable meals at home.  It's really not that hard.I'd like to suggest that the author embark on a new project.  This time she should make some friends, find roommates and cook at home.  Of course, the resulting book will be rather dull, but at least it will be a bit more honest.
5	1034208000	This is an extraordinary book that every American who can afford to eat out, or rent a video, or visit a doctor, should be required to read.I had no idea just how irrelevant the "poverty" line as a measure of true poverty--nor did I realize how constained people are, the 60% of America that earns less than $15 to $20 an hour, in seeking out other options.The author does a really effective job of investigating and communicating the horrible realities of life where...managers and corporate regulations and plain meanness deprive hundreds of thousands of people of things many of us take for granted: the right to go to the bathroom, to pause for a few minutes, even to sit down quietly for a few minutes in a clean room.Especially admirable is her focus on rent and the conditions that are imposed on the poor and lower working class (between minimum wage and $15 an hour)--not having enough money for a deposit, being forced to pay outrageous rents for decrepit motel rooms rented by the week, having to spend a precious working day finding a place to stay, etcetera.This is a very valuable book, both from the perspective of someone who might benefit from a little humility and gratitude for their blessings and advantages; and from a policy point of view--our understanding of poverty and welfare and what it takes to allow decent hard-working people to have a *life* appears to be terribly, terribly flawed.  As the author documents so ably, it is not enough to have a job in America, you need to have one that pays enough to cover rent, food, and medicine.I was especially moved by the many details the author provided on how life at the lower levels brings on more and more hardships--not enough money for good shoes, bad shoes causing major spinal and related injuries and pain.  The pain--the endless hours, the desperation for aspirin and other pain killers, cigarettes as the least expensive narcotic for the pain--this is very powerful stuff.At a minimum, this book changes how I will evaluate politicians that speak in ignorance about welfare and poverty and safety nets--and it is going to substantially increase how much I tip and how I tip--from 15% to 25%, and in cash...  This might be a good time to think of ourselves, and follow the Golden Rule--our welfare system should be what we would want it to be if we were the ones asking for welfare.
5	1033430400	Barbara Ehrenreich takes the reader on a journey on what it's like to make a &quot;minimum wage&quot; in the U.S.A.  She decides to attempt to live the life of a minimum wage worker in three different mid-sized cities.Barely getting by, even with special &quot;perks&quot; and &quot;rewards&quot; she gives herself, as well as aided by the fact that she starts off with no kids or medical problems, she shows the reader that it truly is practically impossible to live decently as a minimum wage worker in the U.S. today.While at times it is terribly depressing to face the reality, she also manages to inject several moments of humor and irony into what could have been a rather dull field report.A must-read for any U.S. citizen. and an eye-opener for anyone who has ever seen a homeless person on the street and thought..&quot;oh, get a job!&quot;
4	1033257600	I don't agree with everything Ehrenreich says in this book--Maids are made to scrub floors on their hands and knees so they will be "anally accessible"?  Oh please!--but nevertheless it is a true-to-life portrait of real life at the bottom of America's economic ladder.  I especially enjoyed Ehrenreich's very strong anti-drug testing stance, though I disagree with her opinion that "living wage" laws are a solution to the problems she uncovers in this book.  Even if you, like me, don't agree with all of Ehrenreich's politics, this book will open your eyes and encourage dialogue.
4	1032912000	I thought that Barbara Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America" (2001) was a very interesting and well written book.She well describes the difficulty of being an unskilled laborer in contemporary America. While this is without question the wealthiest country to have ever existed in human history, that does not mean that everybody has an easy time making ends meet. The unskilled jobs like waitressing, house cleaning or working in retail are physically demanding, generally unstimulating intellectually, lacking perhaps in upward mobility and poorly paying. Ehrenreich takes us to the bottom of working American society and shows that it is sometimes ugly and often brutally difficult. As far as her descriptions of her jobs, her co-workers, and all of that, this book is 5 stars.The problem is that Ehrenreich lacks a solid understanding of economic principles. She concludes that rents are too high and wages are too low and blames the latter on the greediness of employers, saying that the reason wages aren't rising is "employers resist wage increases with every trick they can think of and every ounce of strength they can summon" (pg 203). Her solution is the typical, thoughtless modern liberal solution: government intervention to raise wages and create more affordable housing. What she fails to realize is prices (such as wages and rents) are determined by the natural laws of reality, in this case usually by the law of supply and demand. Thus, if you raise wages, you cause unemployment because more labor is demanded at lower wages, less at higher. As costs get higher, marginal costs can exceed marginal benefits for employers and they are therefore not interested in hiring more workers. The same applies to housing: if you impose rent controls, this makes it unprofitable for certain landlords to operate their buildings and thus they will take their buildings off the market, decreasing supply and putting some people out on the streets. Raising wages will raise wages for some but cause unemployment for others; rent control will lower rents for some but cause others to be without housing. I think that anyone wanting to seriously and honestly deal with the problems of poverty has to at least recognize these laws of economics.Because of her modern liberal beliefs, Ehrenreich overlooks factors beyond the greed of capitalists and employers that are partially responsible for poverty. One obvious, and overlooked, cause of poverty is taxes. Low wage workers in California pay almost 30% of their gross income in taxes (15% in federal, 6.2% social security, %1.45 medicare, .9% disability insurance, and I am not sure what CA state taxes are but I believe around 5%). This kind of huge expense makes the difference between being able to meet the rent and not being able to.Another overlooked area is all the government regulations that increase the costs of doing business and thus increase the prices that business must charge in order to meet costs and make a profit. I am not an expert but I would bet that one of the reasons that housing is so expensive is the mass of government regulations boosting the cost of contstruction and operation of affordable homes and apartments.  For instance, I often see articles in newspapers about home and condo builders being sued for construction defects and juries awarding huge damages to plaintiffs.  This kind of high liability environment increases costs for builders and thus increases prices for homes and apartments.I don't believe that the free market is a panacea that will create a capitalist utopia but modern liberal solutions are tired and ignorant and they don't help anyone. In fact, alot of Ehrenreich's fellow employees in her low wage jobs didn't appreciate her tirades about low wages and employer exploitation because they were happy to have the jobs they did, or at least would rather have the jobs than not, and her tirades threatened their well being.In sum, Ehrenreich has written a clear, entertaining and sobering book and I enjoyed reading it very much. But her solutions are tired and ignorant and they don't take intellectual responsibility for dealing with the problem she cares so much about.Greg Feirman...
4	1032652800	A gritty, tell-it-like-it-is eye-opening look at how minimum wage workers struggle to get by in America.  Bottom line:  they don't.  This should be required reading for every corporate CEO, state and federal lawmaker.
3	1032652800	Although the book is well written and insightful, the wrap up is infinitely unsatisfying.  If Ms. Ehrenreich really wants to help the plight of the working poor, perhaps she could come up with a fix for the problem, instead of pointing out all the flaws.  If the Wal-Mart workers go on strike to get higher wages, Wal-Mart will need to charge more for their goods and the workers will spend the additional wages they earn on a higher cost of goods.  Selah.Thanks but no thanks.  Lets think of some different solutions.bkk
5	1032048000	Nickel and Dimed is worthwhile for the simple enjoyment of following the author and her colleague's day-to-day plight struggling to surviving on an average of $6.50/hour, and enduring the indignities of these low-wage positions.  At the same time, the book is a quick and painless way to gain some insight and empathy for the current state of the working class poor in America.The book suffers for the concluding 29-page evaluation spelling out the what the author sees as the implications of her experience, and her prescriptions to address the growing income inequality in America -- essentially creating more low-income housing, increasing wage transparency, and encouraging unionization.  Such policy prescriptions take away from the power of the narrative, and I am afraid create a knee-jerk rejection of the whole book by the potential readers most in need of having more empathy for the working poor.I live outside the United States, and it struck me as a tribute to the American economy, that it is taken for granted that an individual in Ms. Ehrenreich's situation should be able to arrive in an entirely new city with no social safety net of friends or family and survive.  Such labor mobility helps America's GDP, though most American tax and fiscal policy has not favored it.  Moreover, even when funds are available to build housing for single, low-income, transient workers such as Ms. Ehrenreich, you can be sure that the homeowners in areas where jobs are most plentiful, such as suburban Minneapolis, will fight like crazy to keep her out.No matter your political viewpoint, I would highly recommend Nickel and Dimed.
5	1031961600	This book is a delight.  Every other line is a chuckle.  Ms. Ehrenreich effectively exposes the shrewd and manipulative ways in which management exploits low-income workers.  She peels away the veneer of false authority that mid-managers depend on and she reveals them as the buffoons they often are.  At the same time the workers are shown to be vulnerable, yet retaining the dignity they so justly deserve.  A fun and enlightening read!
5	1031788800	I run my own flower shop and although I think of myself as a fairly progressive employer, this book opened my eyes to some of the problems some of my employees face. Now I'm in the process of raising their wages and shopping around for a better benefits package. Things like this have been niggling in my mind for quite a while now, but this book brought things to a head.
3	1031529600	A fascinating sociological experiment in which the author goes into the field to study the plight of the low-wage worker in America. Her observations point to the woeful lack of affordable housing and medical care, and the rampant mental and physical stress perpetrated on the proletariat class. Ehrenreich's strongest statement is not so much the hopelessness of it all, but the fact that as a group, they suffer in silence. Though huge in number, they are considered above the poverty line, and thus largely fall through the cracks of government aid and representation.While it certainly raised my social consciousness about this "lost" strata of the population, the book falls short in 2 areas. First, as a participant in the low wage sector, I would hope the author could offer more concrete ideas on how to relieve their burden, and secondly, the book often comes off as self-serving, with the author's self-congratulations wearing progressively thin throughout the text.
4	1031443200	I read this book while doing research for my book ...  My interest was to determine how work adds meaning and self worth to people's lives.  Ehrenreich details her experiences, while she joined the ranks of the working poor for several months.  During this time she work as a waitress, for a home cleaning service, and in retail at what would be considered the lowest end of the labor market.  The primary purpose of this effort was to determine if  a person would earn enough money to provide for the basic necessities of life, food and housing, which is the primary objective of work.Ehrenreich worked in several different geographic markets. The general conclusion that Ehreneich reached from her experience was that depending on the cost of housing in the specific marketplace the working poor can earn just a little more or just a little less than is required for basic survival.  Basic survival was defined as taking any housing that was available that would provide basic shelter and security, and either preparing simple meals at home of purchasing fast food.  Basic survival did not include any form  of health care or automobile expense. If they incurred any other unavoidable expense, or became ill and could not work, they quickly fell behind financially. Ehreneich pointed out that most people who work in this sector hold two jobs, if they have the physical strength and stamina to do it, or the team up with another individual to help share expenses.Ehrenreich worked under cover in the sense that she did not let people know, including her employers, that she actually held a Ph.D., and that she was working in these jobs to gather material for a book.  Thus, her coworkers shared their feeling, frustrations and attitudes with her as if she was someone who was in the same predicament.  Based on her account it appears that many of her coworkers still believe in the work ethic in spite of fact that many employers indicate through their policy and procedures, that they don't really believe in it themselves.Ehrenreich says that as a waitress she was told that her boss could search her purse at any time.  Almost all jobs required mandatory drug tests.  In other words, a person could not start work until the drug test report was negative.  Many jobs required people to take personality tests, which in addition to questions such as "would you turn in some one you saw stealing" also asked questions about their moods and feelings.  Although employers treat people in low level jobs with suspicion, Ehrenreich claims that she did not encounter any thieves or drug attacks among the people she worked with.Most importantly, employers did not provide a free and open market with regard to wages and opportunities.  Many employers forbid employees. under the penalty of dismissal, to disclose their pay to fellow employees.  When applying for jobs applicants are often given misleading information about starting wages and the ability to get raises.  Naturally, employers will deny that these practices exist, but they also know, but are not willing to admit,  that if they and not their competitors allowed wages to follow the laws of economics, they would eventually go out of business.  The bottom line is that it is very difficult for people to improve their position through hard work, and they have very little opportunity to develop any sense of self worth and purpose in life from these jobs.Many years ago, when I was a student, I worked in low end jobs as well.  I can still remember that a summer working in one of these jobs was one of my biggest incentives, when I was back at school, to study hard.  However, everyone does not have the opportunity to move high enough in the job ranks to avoid the practices by employers that take any potential for personal meaning out of a job.  I believe that we should limit our expectations with regard to the meaning that we can get from working.  However, as a general rule society will benefit from an effort to put the most meaning possible in every job.According to Ehrenreich the management style of first line supervisors and company policy was to discourage any form of initiative from workers.  In spite of their managers and company policy  many workers were able to find meaning in their work by taking the initiative at times.  In general, she believed that many workers succeeded in spite of rather than because of management direction.
5	1031097600	If I were making a list of books every American had to read to understand how the world we live in works, Nickel and Dimed would definitely be on it.  Any of us can do the math that shows that it's nearly impossible to live on the kinds of wages that so many jobs in this country pay; few of us seem to _do_ that math, though, and even if you look at the numbers it doesn't necessarily sink in what they mean, if you're living a more comfortable life.  So Barbara Ehrenreich's experiment in making a living from the kinds of jobs available to someone without a college education or a lot of work experience is valuable as a graphic and immediate illustration of how hard and unjust life is for so many Americans.Ehrenreich found that, without working two jobs -- and two physically grueling and often messy and disgusting jobs at that -- she simply couldn't make a living.  And it wasn't just her -- few of her co-workers were doing any better than she was, and many were sleeping in their cars despite working full time.  In one of the most vivid accounts of how inadequate these jobs are, one of Ehrenreich's co-workers at Wal-Mart (the nation's largest employer) couldn't afford a shirt that was on clearance there, despite the fact that Wal-Mart is a discount store to begin with.Anyone who wants to talk about work, poverty, homelessness, or government policy on any of those subjects in the United States should have to read this book.  Yes, you could get the same basic facts in other books, but this one puts a lot of facts together with a compelling personal account of just how those facts affect people day to day.
3	1030838400	While her little social experiment was interesting and enlightening, she spent much too much time indicting people and situations that were beside the point.  For example, she criticized Minnesotans for being fat, the rich for having dirty toilets needing cleaning and Wal-Mart for actually wanting to keep its stores organized.  Her footnote quoting experts about how to clean counters and floors juxtaposed against the guidelines dished out by the Maids would be more apropos in a book about the cleaning industry in America!
3	1030838400	The review below entitled, "Not all it should have been" is fairly on point. The idea that this book springs from was perfect. However, the book itself reminded me of comments that I'd sometimes get on my papers from English teachers back in high school: "Your paper doesn't quite match up with your thesis." The thesis of this book is that it is really hard to get by in America on a minimum wage job. However, rather than focusing on that, Ms. Ehrenreich focuses on the horrible working conditions that she encountered. I wanted more details about her budget. Frequent updates on how much money she had and what bills were coming up would have been helpful. I think most of us, even the die-hard Republicans out there, are aware that trying to support a family by working on the floor &lt;of some store> would be awful. The more interesting question is, how hard is it for someone in that position to improve his or her life? Going into this book, I was hoping to get some good information to whack my conservative friends over the head with about how, even with hard work and dedication, it's almost impossible for people who were born into the bottom 20% to escape from it. Instead, I got a lot of description about the awful conditions that having a low-wage job leads to (e.g., repetitive, boring work, poor diet, small, dirty apartment, little leisure time, etc.). Well I could have guessed that. It doesn't help that Ms. Ehrenreich occassionally slips in a comment that indicates she had an agenda going into this. That isn't terribly surprising, but the lack of neutrality in her writing makes you wonder, if she did encounter something that didn't support this agenda, would she tell us?Still, despite the fact that she didn't do exactly what she said she was going to do, she still does something pretty interesting. At the very least, this book made me want to put a much greater effort into avoiding businesses that exploit their workers. After all, who is really to blame for the wildfire growth of businesses that prioritize low prices over humane treatment of their workers?
1	1030752000	This book would have been far better and much more informative if the author would have given us in-depth looks at the lives of the working poor including their home life, their hopes and dreams for the future etc. Essentially, letting them tell their story in their own words.Instead Barbara Ehrenreich made this book more about herself as if she needed to prove to the world that she could live the life that they live every day and survive at it.But she pretty much set herself up to fail. She put herself in situations where she was all alone in unfamilliar cities with no support system of family and friends to rely on.She didn't take good advice from a friend of a friend who said that she should find a church to help her settle in and make new friends and they could provide her with some food or financial assistance when times were tough, instead she went out of her way to mock religion. Also, she walked away from her waitress job mid-shift which her co-workers could not afford to do.She also had the need to prove her superiority to those she worked with and for. She kept reminding her readers that she had a PhD. and that unlike the fat people who worked and dined in the restaurant, she was very fit.She didn't have much to say about solutions to the problems that she saw except that these people should form unions and that governments need to mandate living wage laws.These ideas come from people who fail to understand the great benefits of capitalism. A person can start at the entry-level job and work their way up through the organization but, there has to be a desire to do it and it usually will require some sacrifices which some people just aren't willing to make.She was very suprised that the workers were not outraged at their "condition" but actually took pride in their work, which is a feeling that living off of the welfare system sure can't offer.This book was too one-sided, too political in its overtones and too much about Barbara Ehrenriech.
5	1030492800	I am surprised that there are so many problematic reviews of this book.  Go figure.  My roots are certainly similar to those of the folks that Ms. Ehrenreich worked with, and I found this book to be truthful, authentic and well-written.  It is true that many writers have tackled this topic; but I don't know of any others who have actually lived for a number of months working at these jobs and attempting to live on these wages.  So that makes it singular.  It is also well written and readable and I enjoyed her style very much; I don't usually find myself staying up until 3 a.m. because I'm excited about what is basically a sociological essay!  She's funny and insightful about her self, while making a huge effort to not make judgements about the people she is getting to know.  She does get frustrated at different points.  Really, I'm confused about some of the other reviewers.  At no point does she go on about minimum wage earners smoking dope; at one point she worries about having to take a drug test herself because of "a chemical indiscretion."  She also refers to the U.S. as "chemically fascist" in it's use of drug tests and documents studies on their costs and effectiveness.  Nor does she promote unions; instead she documents how the employers discourage unions and wonders why people who are paid and treated so badly would not seek any alternatives, including unions.I enjoyed her writing, her insightfulness, particularly about herself, her refusal to pass judgement, her capable research of the subject and her willingness to take on the myth that people can get off welfare and make it in the world if they will only get to work.  I'm going to look for more of her books.
3	1030492800	First off, an important caveat:  If you've read the two long excerpts from this book that were published in "Harper's," you can consider yourself as having read the book and can save your money.  I was disappointed, after having read and enjoyed the excerpts, to discover that they make up about 75% of the book.  Second, this book just simply isn't all it could or should have been.  Ehrenreich, who is a great writer, seems to have phoned this one in.  She gives us neither the wealth of anecdotes we'd imagine she amassed over the course of her research, nor the analysis we'd expect in her summary.  I can't really recommend this book, as much as I applaud the ideas behind it;  and it's a reasonably entertaining read, too;  but low-wage workers in America desperately need a voice, and this simply ain't it.
5	1030406400	I felt this was excellent jounalism. I felt that she was describing my life. It's easy to write poverty off as lazyness or lack of a strong character trait. But this book tries to put that belief to rest. It was refreshing to read in print the truth I have known for years and have been fighting for... a decent wage based on CURRENT COST OF LIVING in the area you live. I think this book is a nice starter book on current trends in thinking of poverty, the way it is portrayed, and the way it really is. Bravo, Barbara!
1	1030406400	This is a most disappointing book especially when compared to the investigative &quot;workplace&quot; journalism provided by German author Guenter Wallraff.  (Unfortunately, I do not believe that his books, such as &quot;Ganz Unten&quot;, &quot;Der Aufmacher&quot;, &quot;13 Reportagen&quot;, were ever translated into English.)
1	1030060800	It is amazing to me that a person would spout such nonsense.  As a person who has worked many low paying jobs, I can say with authority that the author's portrayal of life is dead wrong.  We don't sit around and whine, we try to better ourselves and succeed.
4	1029801600	This is not a temperate review.Some will feel it is not merely intemperate but presumptuous,with me not being an American.I feel qualified to comment on the book by virtue of my own experiences on the UK job scene and by virtue of an enormous respect for the USA allied to a belief that support does not mean always giving unstinted praise and that love consists of telling what feel like home truths no matter how uncomfortable that makes both the speaker and the listener.At the back of my mind when reading this book were quotes from the men I consider to be the 2 finest American presidents.One was uttered in 1860 by Lincoln and goes " All that harms labor is treason to America".The second quotation was uttered in 1933 by FDR and runs  " No business which depends for existence on paying less than  living wages to its workers has any right to continue in this country.By living wages I mean more than a bare subsistence level.I mean wages of decent living"As an aside ,it seems to me when corporations like Duane Reade are,according to litigation filed by workers ,routinely breaking state and federal labour laws by paying as little a 75 cents an hour,much still remains to be done to make FDR' s words a living reality.The phenonema of low wage unskilled work is not peculiarly American and the experiences catalogued by Ehrenreich across the States are paralleled in my own country and I can vouch from experience for the way low pay consumes a larger slice of money for food and basic living costs than does work higher up the economic scale.When well over 70 percent of your money goes on food,and a roof over your head where does that leave the ornaments of life -reading,vacations,and not facing a major finanacial problem when your shoes wear out and you need new clothes for job interviews or for your job itself. Looking good takes money.The author conveys with admirable accuracy the thousand and one humiliations of life on the margins-where choice is a hollow mockery and every stroll past shopping malls and restaurants further drives a nail into the coffin that is now housing your self -respectSome of the employment practices detailed are truly odious especially advertising vacancies which do not exist merely in order to build up a picture of the labour market in your area,and the interview conducted without human agency.The wiping clean of overtime dockets and curious induction practices further shame the employers and the nation that permits such practices.I was uncomfortable with the idea of the book -a white middle class journalist "slumming" always has an out which those about whom she is writing do not possess but she has performed a service in raising the issue of poverty both of money and expectation.The pity of it is she is more likely to be read by those already sympathetic to the issues and people involved-it should really be read by the advocates of such pernicious nonsense as "monetarism" and that comic modern shibboleth "trickledown"I worked construction,drove trucks,swept the streets for 20 years due to family necessity and what got me through into an education which turned things around was blind cussedness and family support to die for.Others-equally bright ,equally courageous and less white, will never get the chanceWhat emerges for me here is that we are not talking race or gender but power and until economic power is distributed with more compassion then America will be failing to ensure equality of opportunity for all its citizens.I never criticise what I dont love,and this is written from love because I still believe in the American dream Pity more CEO's dont.Longer on description than diagnosis though it is this is still a powerful starting point for debate and the book is worth yur time especially if you instintively shy away from its arguements and its subject matter
3	1029369600	There are hundreds of excellent books out there in both mainstream and alt presses which portray the plight of the working poor with aplomb and scholarship.  Some of these books are thorough and entertaining, mixing good social science and journalism with an entertaining voice.  Some books even show the world of the working poor from within successfully.This is not one of them.The premise of &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; is interesting (three different geographical, month long &quot;experiements&quot; to see if working &quot;unskilled&quot; jobs will really make ends meet, as welfare critics claim) but Ehrenreich comes across as too shallow to do more than study herself alternating between a) an exhausted, hopeless despair that she imagines is the despair of the working poor and b) a libertarian, union-crazed, &quot;something must be done about this&quot; champion of the labor class from within, which ultimately comes across as one of the worst possible cases of classism I've ever seen a sociologist not notice in herself, especially since, as Ehrenreich herself shows again and again, people who are REALLY within this class are too tired and mis-informed to develop on their own.  Her inability to truly identify with her subjects -- she uses the work &quot;overqualified&quot; to describe herself more times than I can count -- while nevertheless trying to constantly identify with her working-class faux-peers as subject in her own experiment seems to have created too confusing a perspective for a successful analysis or for strong subjective conclusions to be made, but unfortunately Ehrenreich doesn't seem to have realized this, and tries anyway.That said, Ehrenreich does portray place well -- you get a good sense of the spaces she inhabits in her journey, and of the geographical diversity of Maine, Minnesota, and Key West set against the working class &quot;sameness&quot; of situation in each site -- and the sub-narrative that shows her working through her guilt at &quot;cheating&quot; (i.e. taking advantage of the temporary nature of her situation at every turn) is entertaining.  She is a good and well-trained sociologist, so her concluding chapter, which tries to contextualize her own experience in a larger national sense of class struggle and failure, both establishes a serious problem and shows us why it is worsening.  Plus, it's a fast read, so might be worth it if you didn't want to think too much.  But overall, Ehrenreich has done much better -- her book &quot;Fear of Falling,&quot; a mid-eighties study of the identity of the middle class in America, was excellent.  I recommend reading that instead, if you haven't yet gotten to it.I note that many reviewers here seem to be championing Ehrenreich for &quot;exposing&quot; the way the working poor are mis- and dis-served by our modern cultural norms and institutions.  Surely, this is a noble pursuit.  But Ehrenreich is only one of many who have tried to do so -- and her attempt is marred by some serious personal and professional sticking points, which combine to make a slick but ultimately empty and suprisingly short book.  Praise her for her motives if you must, but please, for all our sakes, review the product, not the intent.  It's quality, not just subject choice, which makes a &quot;good&quot; product.
4	1029369600	This is an excellent little book for anyone, especially the following:The techie who boasts about the &quot;New Economy&quot; but can't figure out why everyone isn't as thrilled as him.The frustrated middle-class progressive who can't understand why the working class isn't better organized or more responsive to left-wing politics.The sincere politician who wants a better understanding of her constituents: even the ones who can't offer monetary contributions.In trying to get a better understanding of the working poor, Ehrenreich went further than most journalists are willing to go: she voluntarily joined their ranks. This was not a half-hearted effort like &quot;work-days&quot; (a stunt several congressmen use, where they spend one day a month--usually near an election--doing common labor), but a full lifestyle transition.Granted, as she even admits, she could never make a full transition. But her experiences are nevertheless eye-opening. I especially appreciated her time in Maine working for the maid-service. It's amazing how people in that line of work manage to keep their dignity.This book does not offer any lofty solutions to the problems of poverty in America. It merely presents a brief sketch of those Americans who (for whatever reason) missed out on the &quot;prosperous&quot; 1990's. It's a realistic counterbalance to the market-cheering op-eds one finds in almost all mainstream newspapers.
2	1029369600	Bare in mind that I read this book for a college cource, so I have had to read, re-read and analize every page, paragraph, word and fragment.I was sceptical about the book from the begining.  A book that thries to answer the question, &quot;Is it possible to live on min-wage in America?&quot;  The problem is that that question has been answered over and over by investigative news reports, magazines, and even congressmen and women who advicate the &quot;living wage.&quot;  So, do we really need another book that tells us that it is not possible to live on min-wage.  After reading it, I have to say the answer is no.Ehrenreich's book was an unnessicery addition to the flood of information we have on the subject.  Not only that, but her introduction is lacking in hummility, and it quickly slated me against her work.  Her attempt at &quot;undercover&quot; research gives her so much more of an advantage over the welfare mothers that she is trying to relate to.  So much of an advantage that the reader cannot possibly comprehend how Ehrenreich suffered the burden of a tremndusly tight budget.In the end, this book does one thing right, show the public that the single mothers, often the result of divorce from deadbeat husbands, on welfare are not the lazy, greedy, government money waisting women that the conservitive right would like to believe.  The truth is that they are hard working women often with several jobs to support their children, forgoing so much to make sure their children have what they need.  It's a crime the government took 6 million of these women off of welfare.  And if you ever see someone with a &quot;Work hard, millions of people on welfare are counting on you,&quot; bumber sticker, wait untill a red light, get out of your car, and slap them.As for Ehrenreich, it must be nice to be her.  She gets to return to her comfortable life after pretending to live a difficult one.  Not only that, but she gets to enjoy the proffits from a best selling book, which has to be somewhat gaulling to the women on welfare who, if they could have had the free time from rasing their children and working two jobs, could have writen a much more indepth and very personal account of being on welfare, and maybe made some extra money.  Then again, no one said life was fair.
4	1029283200	Ehrenreich does an interesting social expirement by leaving her nice upper-middle class life to see what it's like to live in the working poor. Though I find some things odd such her avoiding places multicultrual setting such as Chicago, New Jersey, California or New York and choosing Minnesota and Maine as two of her locations. Such comparisions between those two environments would have been greately appreciates especially taking into account that the multicultural places tend to have higher costs of living further hurting the working poor. Though Ehrenreich does give voice to a segment of the American population that is overlooked. One of my favorite part of the book is when she is in Maine working as a maid. She is watching TV realizing that the life of the working poor is not mentioned causing them ot believe that their numbers are smaller than they actually are. Enrenreich gives voice to the working poor by shoing the level of difficulty involved with living on ... an hour. She is often forced to work two jobs or consider it in order to make ends meet. In addition, she deals with the hard work that's involved in a lot of menial jobs. She mentions the strain of jobs such as maid work and waitressing have on people.
2	1029196800	The first thing I'd have to say about this work is that the issues and problems that Ehrenreich is so incredulous about are so incredibly obvious and accessible that I can't even believe she managed to make an entire book out of it.  If you really are as oblivious as her, save yourself twelve bucks and just sk your teenage kid who works at Burger King about the book's topics.The author spends her whole introduction trying to establish her "true proletarian" roots but that still doesn't excuse what was to me a rich lady's fantasy sight-seeing tour of  difficult lives.  If Ms. Ehrenreich truly believes that spending 2 weeks in each job is enough to understand the world of her lower class neighbors, she is her own punishment.In the end, this was a cheaply conceived book by an author who, if nothing else, has very limited knowledge of her subject (as evidenced by such always shocked "they were smoking weed on the job!" anecdotes).  I can say two things in her defense: 1) she seems sincere.  2) she has managed to draw attention to the problem of substandard living.For my own part, I returned the book.  A waste of money.
5	1029110400	I had a little bit of experience working service jobs like the ones Dr. Ehrenreich held when I was a teenager.  They were hard work, they paid little, but I always knew that this was just a starting point, and that because I was born into privilege, that I would have much better jobs as an adult.  But nothing I did or didn't do gave me this privileged life, and by the same token, the millions of people born into unprivileged circumstances did nothing to deserve it.I'd like to thank Dr. Ehrenreich for her excellent book.  Educating people about a problem is the first step toward fixing that problem.  I resolve to help, in whatever ways I can, the people I encounter whose lives are harder than mine.
2	1029110400	Before I read this book, I only knew Barbara Ehrenreich as a loose cannon columnist in The Progressive (her latest offering blames Bush for the 9/11 disaster because he took a vacation seven months earlier).  Now I'll always remember her as a pompous egotist who is more interested in touting her own hip musical tastes and ability to recognize Somolis by accent than in forming sustaining relationships with those outside her class.Taking on unnecessary hardships to benefit others is a noble choice, but Ms. Ehrenreich is no missionary - quite the opposite, in fact.  Her intention is not to give up her own comfortable lifestyle and give to the less fortunate, but rather to temporarily dip her foot into the same pool that the common folk swim in for the purpose of selling a book to support said lifestyle.Perhaps that is why she comes across as so disdainful of the poorer people she encounters, be it their appearance, practices or beliefs.  She describes having to work for managers without teeth, "pudgy fourth-grade teachers" and "large Mexicans" (though, of course pointing out that the "Anglos" are larger - and this from someone who openly anguishes about whether to describe a young woman as Asian-American, Hispanic or both).The obese receive particular criticism for their size and Ehrenreich is careful to tell the reader that she herself is "an unusually fit person, with years of weightlifting and aerobics."  Yet she reserves the most venom, it seems, for those who hold religious beliefs, giving the clear impression that she feels these people are beneath her.  This sort of intellectual bigotry fits perfectly with her style of writing, and perhaps the company that she keeps in her "real life," but it doesn't enhance her image among those unimpressed by such snobbery.No less than six times, an average of once every thirty-seven pages, does Ehrenreich remind the reader that she has a Ph.D., apparently to distinguish herself from the average people around her, lest we forget.  Yet, even overlooking the fact that she smoked pot days before an expected drug test, the sources that she uses for statistics are highly questionable, academically speaking.  Asking the AFL-CIO to estimate undocumented employer transgressions and getting figures of any kind from the National Coalition for the Homeless, which did nothing to correct Mitch Snyder's gross exaggerations in the 1980's, does nothing to augment credibility.Still, to call Ms Ehrenreich an "Alec Baldwin" liberal wouldn't be entirely fair.  She's not as wealthy and her research did involve a sort of sacrifice, albeit in small doses and to no one else's benefit, really.  In the end, perhaps she's merely "Ebenezer Scrooge" material, feeling that the poor are the responsibility of the taxpayers and shouldn't hamper one's personal standard of living.
2	1029024000	While I applaud the intent of the book, I wince at the concessions that Barbara Ehrenreich allowed herself-- because those concessions serve as security blankets that many of the working poor don't have or have never had in their lives.She marvels at how her co-workers accept their lot in life.  What she fails to do is to really explore who they are and where they came from in an attempt to figure out where this acceptance stems from.  Even while partaking in the experience, she's on the outside looking in- reporting how people live, but not necessarily how they got there and why they stay there.  If a person is raised in poverty, they're often not given opportunities or hope for a better life.  They exist and they do what they can to survive.  They don't have any other choice.  What privilege, money, and education gives someone is hope- they have someone or something to fall back on and they have proof that life can be better, even in the tough times.  None of the people Ms. Ehrenreich worked with had her advantages.  Her experience was akin to saying &quot;I'm going to put on black make-up for a day, so I know what it feels like to be black.&quot;  In short, Ms. Ehrenreich tried on the shoes but never really wore them.
5	1028937600	This book was one of the fastest I've ever read.  If you enjoy &quot;real-life&quot; horror stories, you will jump right into this amazingly candid look into the lives of modern-day slave laborers ... not in some third-world country, but right here in the United States.  You will never look at maids, retail workers or waiters and waitresses the same way again.By walking in their shoes, the author showed me ... rather than told me ... what it is like to live in the quiet, underpaid desperation that plagues so many of our lower middle-class workers.  This should be required reading for everyone!
4	1028678400	How you react to the indignities heaped upon the real people in this book will let you know where you really stand on a wide variety of societal issues.  The author doesn't just research her material, she lives it.  She took the phrase, "walk a mile in someone else's shoes" literally.  And what a tale she tells...Educate yourself.  Read this book.
3	1028678400	First off, let me say that the concept of this book is brillant. It invokes the hay day of investigative journalism and muckrucking. However, the book's author leaves much to be desired This is my first encounter with Ms. Ehrenreich's work, and I must say I am not that impressed. Not that there were any major flaws in her experiment. That was actually done quite well, as good as most could have hoped to do it. My problem with the book is that Ms. Ehrenreich comes off far to egotistical for her own good. Many times in the course of the study, she turns it into a personal account, why she is so great for doing this, why she is so smart, why she is so much more qualified then the rest of the poor (she says 'over qualified' so many times I nearly threw a fit). Basically, she strikes me as an Ivory Tower liberal who wants a medal for doing what millions do every day. Maybe I'm just nitpicking though. Overall- I agree with the concept of this book, and it raises many important questions, and for that reason it is worth reading, at least until a study by a better author comes along.
5	1028678400	After being loaned this book with the caveat that the author's middle-class escape hatch somehow invalidated or at least dulled the impact of her experiences, I was prepared for disappointment.  Instead I found myself glued to the book, finishing it in 24 hours, and almost missing my train stop.  While Ehrenreich herself has a way out of the circumstances into which she has thrust herself, the people about whom she writes do not, and it is their circumstances that are so frightening and heart wrenching.Those of us in the middle class rationalize the lives of the working poor by saying to ourselves or each other, "they could get out of this if they would work harder/stop spending money on booze/take advantage of all the programs that are out there" and so on.  In fact, options are limited, in part because it is so difficult to learn about the resources available, and in part because the luxury of time and energy to investigate said resources is unavailable to so many.  Ehrenreich takes the time to find an agency that will provide her with an emergency food supply, which on the one hand I approved, as it showed how time consuming the process is, even for someone who has no children or other dependants for which to care, but on the other hand, I found myself thinking that someone else needed that food more than she did.Ehrenreich makes it clear just what the consequences are of the service economy for the people who provide the services, and how corporations are responsible, no, should be responsible, for their plight.  I am not the Marxist that Ehrenreich is, but anyone with a sense of social justice, or justice at all, will find himself moving from anger to pity and back again throughout the course of this small book.  The question is, what are middle and upper class Americans able to do, and for what are we ultimately responsible?  Is it better as an individual consumer to stop patronizing the employers of the working poor as a protest against their plight, or to continue to shop at Wal-Mart and eat at chain restaurants because then at least we contribute to their wages and can leave larger tips?
1	1028678400	As a dedicated populist, I was looking forward to reading this book.  I teach high school history and assign the Grapes of Wrath to all my AP US History students.  I was looking for a book for the students to read to demonstrate how the poor live today.Instead, what I found was a book about Barbara Ehrenreich and her jobs.  It was not about the people who hold those jobs.  I do not want to know why she refused to hire a maid when she could afford one, I want to know why someone takes a job as a maid and how they live on those wages.It helped me truly appreciate the stark brilliance of Steinbeck and his ability to portray the reality of poor American people. It also demonstrates the distressing inability of the popular liberal media to understand or describe the reality of life for poor Americans.I agree with another reviewer -- read Studs Terkel.  I would also would welcome other recommendations for short reading that I could assign to my class.
5	1028592000	I read this book in almost one sitting. I worked my way through college doing many of the same jobs as &quot;Barb&quot; but I always knew it was just a way to get by and me eye was on the bigger goal of getting out of school. Her look at these jobs from a more mature vantage point gave me a real cause to pause and think. The mark of a good book is the way ideas and thoughts keep coming back  to you in odd moments and they are directly related to what you just took in from the author. I found myself discussing the book with my lunch buddies, my husband and even my boss. The gentle way she presented the problems faced by the working poor didn't preach, just teach.I found myself in a national chain variety store buying cat treats yesterday and I almost put them back thinking that the lady ringing me out would look at this as a waste of money as she probably is making due on a small budget. Being a childless women in a world that makes kids the golden calf I fully understood the comments of her co-workers while they cleaned for or served a meal to the &quot;client&quot;. Longing can come from any everyday situation, a running shoe display as seen from the low angel of a wheel chair, a cart full of kids back to school supplies passing a lady who's childless, or a holiday spent in an empty house. But this book brings us back to the all too often hidden longings of thousands of people for simple things like a safe place to live, a hot dinner, and a chance to rest a sore back. I'll keep this book to read again and again. I'll also go from tipping 15% to 20% and be even nicer to the folks that stand behind counters. I never had a maid, for many of the same reasons bought out in the book, but if I ever need household help I will not be the boss, just the very thankful person being helped.
5	1028592000	Barbara Ehrenreich has written a very readable, fasinating, and enlightening book about the very real problems of millions of Americans who have to subsist on minimum wage incomes. It will come as no surprise that minimum wages haven't begun to keep up with the cost of living. The primary culprit is the lack of affordable housing in the United States. The author makes a compelling case with her anecdotal evidence of just how miserable the housing is that low income families can afford. What is not so easily recognized as Barbara points out is that the minimum wage workers in the U.S. are subsidizing the rest of us, who really don't need to be. Her stories about working for Merry Maids and Wal-Mart are especially interesting, since those two companies are so well known.  This book should be read by every politician who purports to represent the interests of the working class while at the same time greedily pocketing money from corporate lobbyists. Neither Democrats nor Republicans as the author points out, seem much interested in the working poor. The book has taken on added interest in this time of manifest corporate greed and corruption. At Wal-Mart, a question is posed to prospective workers: Would you turn in a fellow worker if you caught them stealing? I would add, even if that worker is the CEO?
4	1028592000	This book was my first exposure to Ehrenreich. Little did I know of her activist past. However she does something few writers do....puts their holier then thou theries to the test. Well written and a great idea this is the book for all you who think all people are poor because they choose to be.
3	1028246400	We usually think of the Third World as Africa, Asia or Central America, but in this book Barbara Ehrenreich shows how closely much of America is starting to resemble the Third World in terms of income inequality and living conditions for the working poor. I recommend this book mainly because it will inform many members of the middle class and above about things they commonly ignore and may in fact prefer not to know. I wasn't completely enamored of the book's style. For one thing, Ehrenreich brings to the enterprise a strong left-liberal bias that colors all of her pereceptions. And, while her experiences working at low wage jobs was interesting to read about, the nature of her experiment was a bit disengenous. She was supposedly trying to determine whether these low wage jobs such as waitressing, housecleaning and retail sales would enable her to meet normal living expenses. In fact, as a writer who specializes in such topics, it's fairly certain that she knew the answer to these questions prior to going into the field. The experiences were more of a way to illustrate and dramatize what she already knew. And her observations and interactions with co-workers at these jobs is necessarily artificial. Like many members of her social class, she is unable to discard the persona of a privileged, white, educated, upper-middle class professional. Like many such people, her feelings regarding this identity are ambivalent, a mixture of pride and guilt. This causes her to bend over backwards in an effort to show her liberalism and lack of condescension to the poor people she meets. In the introduction, for example, she goes out of her way to point out that the working poor are fundamentally no different from the educated and prosperous. This, as Ehrenreich's experiences clearly show, is simply not true. This isn't to say that poor people are inferior, but it's a basic sociological fact that a person's job, income and environment greatly influence their beliefs and behavior. At the end of some of her assignments, Ehrenreich reveals her true motives for taking the jobs. In all of the cases she relates, the people were almost indifferent to, and clearly not very interested in this revelation. I cannot imagine such a lack of a reaction among more affluent people. The reason is clear enough; these people are struggling so much that they don't have the time or energy to be interested in abstract ideas. This is not a criticism of them, simply an observation, but one that Ehrenreich's ideology prevents her from looking at too closely. One of the fascinating subjects explored in this book is the culture of corporate propaganda, in which companies like Walmart use a sophisticated combination of techniques to ensure that their workforce remains docile and unrebellious. From the moment you fill out the job application, you are made to feel like, if not a prisoner, an institutionalized drone. Several of the places she applied to required personality tests that measure one's willingness to completely conform and turn in co-workers if necessary. I find it interesting how some of the consequences of capitalism have come to resemble communism.I was most impressed by the Evaluation chapter, the one that follows her work experiences. Here she points out that the working poor today are mostly invisible to those who live comfortably. In an increasingly fragmented and vicarious world, it's all too easy to live entirely within the sheltered cocoon of your milieu. This trend may be reversing, as the economy in general has taken a fall since Ehrenreich wrote this book. The basic points she brings up here are extremely important, and go beyond questions of politics and ideology. You don't have to be a socialist to agree with Ehrenreich that people who work hard should be able to pay their bills.
5	1028073600	Ever since I read this book I look at waiters, maids, clerks in stores and supermarkets with a totally different eye.We (the more or less affluent ones with good jobs) tend to take these people as granted and sometimes don't even treat them as human beings anymore, just as machines who have a useful function.I never was unpolite or tried to save on the tips, but because of Ehrenreich's book I make sure to treat the people that "serve" me with extra respect and give them very good tips.So I can say, that reading the book definetely made a difference in my life. My wish would be that many people get a chance to read it and in my opinion it should be required reading in our high schools.Update September 2011:Wouldn't you know, the Austin/TX school district added this book to required reading for high schools!Thanks to me (just kidding).
5	1028073600	OK, many of us worked manual labor as kids while still under mom and dad's wing.  But Barbara lays out, with humor and despair, the reality of supporting yourself at the lower end of the scale.  What an amazing read.  I will never avert my gaze from the Wallmart employees again.  If you need a reminder of just how spoiled you and your friends are (trust me, if you're on Amazon, you're spoiled) give this excellent book a read.  Most highly recommened for those of you with TEENAGERS.
5	1027900800	I am among those who found this book very valuable reading.  No, I don't think that I was as shocked at what the author found as she was.  The American Dream is beyond the reach of many of us and few of us are treated with a lot of respect in the jobs we do.  Apparently the author has been unusually lucky in those respects, so she found some of the demeaning treatment more remarkable than I think many of us would.  However, the inability to obtain stable housing even with none of the problems that many people face (past evictions, bad credit, utility shut offs) was discouraging and helped my sensitivity to that issue.  And some of the inhumane treatment, like the rule that the maids couldn't drink water in the houses after hours of hot, strenuous work, was hard to believe.  The author's goal was not to develop national policies to address all the issues that she discovered; her role was to outline for us what the problems are and I think she did an admirable job.  The more people who read this book, the greater the possibility the we will be on the road to needed change.
1	1027382400	I admit, I was lured by the marketing ploys used on the cover of the book (who can resist &quot;riveting grit&quot;?).  By the end of the book (well, before, really) I was ready to throw it across the room.  Ehrenreich's experiment turned out to be merely a pretext for promoting her ready-made, pampered-liberal-white-woman's views.  Instead of being transformed by her experiences, she seems to have come away even more entrenched in her already-held opinions and two-dimensional views of working-class women.  Her &quot;instant proletarian&quot; identity, and the way she suddenly began spouting the corresponding rhetoric, was disingenuous, if not laughable.  She knew that she was not one of &quot;them,&quot; nor even that she would end up being a friend to one of &quot;them.&quot;  She seemed to care so very deeply about these women collectively, while remaining at an arm's-length on the personal level, never truly getting involved.  Then, her conclusions at the end seemed sophomoric, based largely on subjective notions of psychology and sociology.I was glad she pointed out that some of the &quot;Merry Maids,&quot; when interviewed about how they felt about the people whose houses they cleaned, never felt the kind of resentment, malice, or self-righteousness that Ehrenreich evinced while cloaked in her over-sympathetic, contrived persona.  Disappointingly, whenever Ehrenreich encountered views and attitudes among these women that challenged her preconceptions, instead of taking them to heart, she just seemed to write them off as curiosities and anomalies.The nerve this book touched for me was one of embarrassment, since I consider myself a liberal of similar educational and economic background to Ehrenriech, but apparently not nearly as sheltered from (or surprised by) the working class world as she seems to be (doesn't she even have any family members in dire straits?).  That there are so many elite, insulated people &quot;enlightened&quot; by this book, enough to make it a bestseller, worries me.  I'm considering whether this book hasn't pushed me a few notches to the right.I concluded that a more interesting experiment would be to have a poor woman write a book about taking the place of a Barbara Ehrenreich for a year, with all the P.C. trappings of the upper-middle-class educated elite, and see what conclusions she reaches.
2	1027296000	Perhaps this writer has never worked (thankfully her father did).  She should not have bothered to waste her time experiencing the work force.  Her conconclusions were all preordained although she claimed she was investigating her hypothesis.  I'm sure she's planning to give the fortune she makes on this book to those unfortunates she has written about.(Perhaps George, the Czech she failed to defend on charges of stealing).
1	1027296000	Ms. Ehrenreich rants on about how awful the lower income classes in America have it and attempts to fill the reader with guilt should they be fortunate (lucky) enough to have reached a level of comfort regarding their personal income. Although she has at least one Ph.D. she attempts go undercover "to live" the life of a minimum wage earner in America and tells the tearjerking reality of underachievers. Knowing that she will never have to stay at this income level beyond her research time, she makes no effort to elevate herself out of and escape this "reality". That is the flaw in her writing. It leaves the reader sedated with the ether of permancy; that being the assumption that there simply is no way out. She ignores the very foundation of what this country was founded on, opportunity. She does not mention the millions of Americans who began in abject poverty and today are found among the middle class to the very wealthy. She couldn't help to take a few cheap shots at the "rich" by making the observation that they read books across the spectrum, starting on the very dredges of the literary world with such authors as Limbaugh and Grisham. So if you're a Grisham fan, according to the Author, you simply do not have the gray matter to "get it" anyway. If you have read a Limbaugh book, (or listened)well, let's not go there. Perhaps Ms. Ehrenreich will paint her face with dark shoe polish for her next book and go undercover to live the life of an African/American or a Hispanic American. Don't waste your time on this one.
2	1027296000	Barbara Ehrenreich, in an attempt to raise our consciousness regarding the plight of America's working poor, has done nothing but humiliate them in this self-righteous attempt at "real journalism." In taking three supposedly demeaning jobs and sticking them out for a month to see if she could make rent, she supposedly explores the lives of the millions of Americans who work full-time for poverty level wages.While she does bring to light some of the lesser known facts about American poverty in the footnotes, the body of text does little more than proclaim her contempt for anyone who isn't privileged to be like her. No one who is actually poor could walk out in the middle of a waitressing shift or call her dermatologist to prescribe antibiotics over the phone. In living a combined rich/poor lifestyle and claiming to have experienced an impoverished lifestyle, she is merely mocking those who actually struggle to make ends meet, for survival, not to score a sweet book deal.You would think that an experience like this one would change a person's attitude, make a difference at the deepest level of there humanity. But all we learn from this book is that Ehrenreich is sure glad she isn't poor.
5	1026950400	I believe that Barbara Ehrenreich gifted the world with this book. It is a telling tale and she takes us where she went. As an American, I felt some shame. American waiters and waitresses are famous for their friendliness and willingness. Many Americans have been in that role. She takes us farther when we go to Portland, Maine to clean houses. The franchise gets the most money, of course. What a world she exposes. Then, Wal-Mart in Minneapolis, phew. I was cheering that Sam's darling and deserving heirs give up a fraction of their inheritance and allow the poor worker bee employees a $14 per hour life. Imagine, such a world.My only beef with this splendid writer is that she allows her own sparsely informed prejudices to pass judgement on the nutrition and sanitation standards of the insider world where she treads. A true liberal would never brag about using oceans of hot water to kill the bacteria.And there were way too many references to her expensive middle-class work-outs. A true liberal would know that many people work-out without a dime spent.But I appreciated her bravado and spirit and humor. I like the way she discloses how she finds humanity in places where she has not been before. She finds some wondrous souls and she shares them with us. These worker bees she tells us about certainly seem a better lot than the CEOs being exposed in today's news.We need way more books like this.
4	1026950400	An interesting look at the problems encountered by the working poor, but I would have preferred if the author had been more in depth about making ends meet on a minimum wage job. Thousands of us do it every day, and few of us have the resources the author had for _start up costs_. Try scrabbling for a place to live on $200 and a 16 year old car. I know, because I did it. And I am well educated and literate and a published writer, too. I would have been in heaven with the amount of money she had to start out on.
4	1026604800	All I have to say is that once you read this book, you'll never look at eating at Denny's (or any other such restaurant), shopping at Wal-Mart (Kmart or Target) or staying in any hotel quite the same way.  Ehrenreich offers an unsettling look into the lives of people who occupy perhaps the lowest rung of the working class in American society, in the wake of welfare reform.  In order to write the book, she thrust herself into that socio-economic strata, taking jobs as a waitress, housecleaner, and Wal-Mart salesperson to see if she could make ends meet between the needs for food and shelter, etc. on the salaries provided.  If nothing else, by the end of this book, whether you agree with her conclusions or not, you will have plenty to think about.  The &quot;Book Group Discussion Questions&quot; in the back of the book are a nice &quot;jumping off place&quot; for thinking further about the situations she writes about.
3	1026604800	I have read some of the other reviews here and some of the critiques are indeed fair, but I am going to praise the author as she is covering ground that very few others bother with. Yes, I expected more from the book and it should have been more in-depth, but the author at least made the attempt to find out what it was like to be a low wage worker. It is an important book for that reason and hopefully will inspire other authors to follow her example. For what it is worth, I currently supervise low wage workers and can tell you that many of them dont know how to get out of their situations and many feel that there is no other alternatives. I face a moral dilemna at times, as I want to tell them to unionize as the author suggested to her fellow workers at Wal-Mart. In fairness to the author, she seemed geniunely remorseful that she could not finacially hold out long enough to help them form a union. This is worthwhile reading.
1	1026604800	I truly thought this would be a thoughtful and thorough evaluation of how people try and live on minimum wage jobs.  Instead it is a long rant by an obviously overprivileged writer who is offended that people actually take jobs cleaning other people's toilets.  Rather than tell us HOW she gets by one low wages, she rages about the indignity of the jobs.  Every day in America people go to work and bend over to load a dishwasher.  For most, it's a job, not a an oppression by an Aristocratic government.  The only social study going on here is how far removed someone well-educated and well-fed can be from working class society.  Skip this book and read something by Studs Terkel.
3	1026604800	I don't really know what I was expecting when I purchased this book (I guess I was hoping for more of a book such as &quot;waiting&quot;). Although I do enjoy the casualness of  the author's writing style, I was left wanting more. It seemed to me that the author never stuck to a situation long enough for us to get a real feel for what she and the people around her where going through.I believe this book would have worked better if she had stuck to a job longer instead of fluttering from job to job. Although I realize that the premise of this book is to &quot;study&quot; the lower paying jobs, this book doesn`t deliver on a deeper level.
4	1026518400	I regularly work in the USA, and when I mentioned this book to 10 or so US colleagues over dinner in Minneapolis last week, only 1 person had heard of it, which exemplifies the fact that the Middle Class America have little consciousness of the realities of the 'slaving classes'. This book does not go into a detailed damnation of the 'system' in the way that 'No Logo' does, but it offers well-written personal recollections of times spent in 3 locations, Florida, Maine & Minneapolis (hence why I asked my dinner companions if they'd heard of it). Even though I consider myself 'socially aware' it gave me further insight into the circumstances of those around me in hotels & restaurants, and reconfirmed my already low opinion of the inequalities in US society. I agree with other reviewers that it wasn't the greatest read, and lacked impact. I noticed that the US Minimum Wage is $5.15, and hasn't been changed for 5 years (ie since 1997)
4	1026432000	I cannot help but notice a little more closely or tip a little more generously each time I have the opportunity to come across folks working on or close to minimum wage - yes, they are everywhere - ever since I began to read this book. Yes, it will affect you and it is a good thing if it does. For it is the customer who demands 99 cent specials at fast food joints or the business which provides cut throat offerings which leads to such a dichotomy in our society today. Read this book and you will be a little more appreciative of your surroundings. But don't go about looking for the answers to the worries of life - that's something which Ms/ Ehrenreich did not set out to do... happy reading!... and consider reading Fast Food Nation as well - a scary but well written account of the evolution of the fast food industry (I read it two years ago and have not been able to go to a BK/McDonald's since...)
5	1026432000	Ms. Ehrenreich's book should be required reading for all students of politcal, economic, and social theory, whether conservative, moderate, or liberal.  While her views in the books are obviously liberal, the people she describes are neither liberal nor conservative.  They spend too much of their time worrying about paying rent and buying food to have any time left for such esoteric matters as a living wage and anti-trust legislation.  This is America, and we must be able to deal with it.  Those on the left should read it to see what really needs to be and can be done by the government.  Those on the right should read it to see what needs to be and can be done by business.  All people, however, especially those who have opinions about glogalization, immegration, the minimum wage, unionization, and housing shortages, and basic human dignity should read it--and try to experience the lives depicted.  These are real people, and this is real life.  Welcome to the Great Society.
4	1026172800	In order to give a true representation of my experience with this book, I must admit one detail-- I had never heard of it before it was assigned to me.  During college orientation, the book was handed out on the way out the door and I had only begun reading it on the way home as a way to save myself from a potentially mind-numbing drive home.  But, to my luck and surprise, the book was good...really good.Nickel and Dimed is more than just a study done by a group of distant scholars and intellectuals using statistics and figures to prove their point.  It is an experience by one woman who wanted to move from the distant surveying position outside the fishbowl and decided to dive in and see for herself(no pun intended).The work is clearly political, stressing the need for the living wage and better protection and aid for those who work the unseen and unregulated jobs in the United States.  I learned quite a good deal from this work.  It causes one to be more socially and economically aware, as well as appreciative.
5	1026086400	Before I give my opinion on this very articulate and insightful book, I must say that is was appalling to read the harsh words of criticisms this book has received. There is nothing misleading about the book. Barbara, has informed the reader about the situation she is putting herself in as well as certain predefined rules for her two year journey into hardship. Now that the air is clear....let me begin by saying that the book is a melting pot of all human emotions which each and every one of us has encountered. Once I graduated with high honors from college, I was forced to take a job at a cafe due to the massive downturn in the economy. And let me tell you it was not easy....This book is very humbling, puts things in perspective for many of us who take things for granted or who treat the low wage workers with disrespect.On the whole, I found this book delightful as well as heart rendering. Good job Barbara!!
4	1026000000	I think that this book does a good job of showing more fortunate people what life for many Americans is like. It obviously isn't completely realistic, because she did cheat sometimes, and she did have somewhat of an advantage. I disagree with one of the other reviewers when they say that most intelligent Americans already know what it is like for those people. MOST people don't undertsand why they couldn't have gone to college and had a well respected job. This book does a good job of showing that not everyone has such luck, and great opportunities in life.  I think that you should definitely read this book, and hopefully, everyone who reads it will learn a lesson.
3	1025913600	What I am doing is inexcusable: I haven't yet read the book. But I enjoyed reading the reviews as much as (or perhaps more) than I am looking forward to the book itself.Readers are hereby warned that since I haven't read it, you might skip over my &quot;review.&quot; I will be honest with you.I've been very, very poor and am now quite well off. I don't know if Ms. Ehrenreich mentioned the issue of grammar and communication skills among the &quot;working poor.&quot; I've always felt that those without good &quot;White English&quot; communication skills were doomed to a life of poverty unless they had extraordinary other skills or luck to help compensate. (Like professional baseball players, etc.)It would be more interesting if her &quot;study&quot; identified this issue. Surely those who spoke with her during the course of her peregrinations recognized that she spoke with university educated English. That would have automatically made her &quot;manager material&quot; had she decided to stay long enough in any job to apply for such a position.You are what you speak...
3	1025568000	This is an entertaining if at times overly simplified story about living on minimum wage.  Of course the author is only doing it temporarily, and has resources to fall back on, so she isn't &quot;really&quot; doing it.  And sometimes the preaching overpowers the story.I enjoyed reading Nickel and Dimed but also found it annoying and at times infuriating.  Other reviewers have commented on Barbara Ehrenreich's attitude and political viewpoint - inherent in much of the story is a superior attitude toward working people, for example: Why does she seem to expect everyone to be impressed when she &quot;comes out&quot; to them with who she &quot;really is?&quot;  And, why does she keep mentioning welfare reform and it's impact - not one of the people in the story seems to be coming off of welfare - the only relevance is that it's part of her ideological agenda.Still, on balance,despite the artificiality of her circumstances she does have some interesting stories and insights.  Some of my executive friends would benefit from taking a few minutes to consider the impact of low wages on people's lives.  However, the ones who would benefit the most would not be interested in or likely to read a book like this.One of her observations that I thought was useful is that upper middle-class teenagers no longer seem to work entry level jobs during school.  This gives them a certain narrowness in their point of view.  I remember my highschool and college years spent waiting tables, working as a clerk, and so forth.  I think that was an important part of my life experience.  For affluent teenagers this would be a good book for a civics class.
3	1025222400	It was interesting and made some good points about how tough it can be to get by without a good education and when your life savings are represented by next week's paycheck.  However I also thought that it could have been better.  I do not regret reading it and I would suggest that others might enjoy it as wellBarbara Ehrenreich went abandoned her upper class lifestyle and spent a few months moving around the country looking for unskilled work.  She attempted to show how tough it can be to get by on the low but seemingly livable wages that many Americans earn.  In each of three cities the author tries to find housing, employment, and a stable life.  In each of three cities she is forced to admit that it takes more than she has to get by.  Along the way we are treated to amusing and sometimes tragic anecdotes about her fellow wage-slaves.While an exploration of the working class plight is a great idea it might have more sense to have explored it from the residents themselves rather than as a tourist who brings her own views and judgements in to the story.  Also the fact that Ehrenreich stayed so briefly in each place meant that she wasn't really able to get a good picture of the day in and day out grinding level of despair that grows as one is unable to maintain a space in or join the middle class.  The author does talk to her co-workers and presents their stories as well as her own.  However, these are only small vignettes and fail to provide a real look at the lives of the working poor.With the advent of cars and the suburbs all too often people from one socio-economic group are isolated from the others.  Cars and trailer parks allow the downwardly mobile to be bussed in and out at the convenience of the more fortunate when they need a lawn trimmed or a house cleaned.  I applaud the attempt of this book but wish it could have had more participation from the people who live that life as opposed to those who just benefit from it.
4	1025136000	If you have never been exposed to the world of a low-wage worker, this is a good read. It is a small book, not packed with statistics, but with a story that reads like a travelogue. Among other things, it makes a good case for affordable housing and for treating people who work in the service economy with respect. It compliments &quot;Fast Food Nation&quot;, another very interesting book on the service economy.
4	1025049600	Right of the bat, the book conveys a sense of desperation, of not having ends meet, and it is an eye opener. Everyone who criticizes that Ehrenreich's attitude is cavalier and "easy" is probably right, but somebody had to write this book. True, it has an axe to grind, and it does grind it with ferocity sometimes against the upper class, but that doesn't make what she reports less real.It humanizes the poor, and explains many things that I had ignored. Yes, it can go easy on the socialist rethoric, and yes, it could be less self-absorbed. Although far from perfect, it will give incredible insights, which is why it's so commendable.You may hate the author, but what she brings to the table is fascinating, warts and all.
4	1024531200	Ehrenreich expertly dodges the glibness potential inherent in her "dressing up as trailer trash" premise.  Instead, she delves deep into the lifestyle and mindset of America's working poor, shattering myths -- and learning a thing or two about herself -- along the way.This book made me grateful for everything I've got, and opened my eyes to the private lives of those supermarket cashiers and Wal-Mart floor people I usually barely notice.  I'll never look at them the same way again.
4	1024358400	Some impressions of the USA:  On a recent trip to San Francisco I was shocked and horrified by the numbers of homeless people people on the streets.  In the entire time I was there (2 weeks) I never got used to it.  Friends there didn't even notice the shop doorways full of people settling down for the night.  One friend - with a college education - and a 'good' job with a big corporation can only afford a scuzzy apartment in a 'bad' neighbourhood. Yet he works hard and believes in the American Dream (hard work = success).At the same time people I met were horrified to find out how much tax etc I pay here in Germany - but jealous of the 6 weeks holiday and the excellent healthcare and public transport.It seems to me that you can't have one without the other.  I would rather pay high taxes and live in a society where everyone has enough to eat and a roof over their heads.  Where people have a minimum wage that really is what it claims to be (It is disgraceful the wages waiting staff in the US are paid), and where education is subsidized to make it both affordable and accessible.  I am not saying that Europe is a paradise, but the only time I have seen anything like the poverty I have witnessed in the US was in India and Africa.  And that is the truly shameful aspect of 'caring' conservatism.There are many myths associated with poverty (welfare mothers, drugs, etc.) and it will always be possible to find examples to prove the case.  But I would certainly challenge the idea that the majority of the poor conform to these myths.  Poverty is not enobling, and no-one would ever willingly choose to be poor.
3	1024358400	I compare this book with Fast Food Nation. It is similiar in that it is trying to look at an aspect of society and make larger connotations. Where it fails is in the execution. Fast Food Nation uses sensational anecdotes to highlight well researched material. Yes there is a slant, but its more of a wake up call to how society changes/changed then a polemic. Nickle and dimed is too controlled. It uses a stilted test format to see if a person can earn a living at menial labor. However, as most people know, you can make a living, albeit not a good one. She uses this test to put forward a vaguely communistic impression of how the world should work- sort of like day old hippisms from the mountain collectives. The self-affirmation at the end (where the largest victory is that she could make it in the environment, and not let her 'team' down is sickening- she took a job, she had to do it, she did it- not any different than any other person who labored at her side). She draws no conclusions, no wider vistas, or concious is opened. If she had turned her stories into anecdotes- an illumination of condition as opposed to an experiment in 'self-reliance' it may have made more sense.On a positive note, I do like her skewering of Wal-Mart, and for exposing the hyprocisy that is the management of menial labor- but again, I didn't like the methodology.
5	1023926400	The fact that this book has landed squarely in the love it or hate it catagory must mean it's doing something right. I weigh in on the love it side for the shallow reason that it made me laugh all night long. Oh yeah, it's got a serious message, that the poor deserve a fighting chance they don't always get. Excuse me for reverting back to 20th century lingo but... DUH! Of course they do. Ehrenrich didn't need to write a book to tell us that. Look here, she wrote a book about it and some people still don't believe her. But here's what she did so effectively most haven't even noticed. Instead of a standard thesis backed by academic research, she wrote three stories and her research was actual experience. Hard arguing with that.I've never worked in Walmart or as a Maid of any sort, but I can say that Ehrenrich's experiences as a waitress hit very close to home, as I'm a bartender who often has to wait tables. Long hours on your feet, many days in a row DOES change you into a meaner version of yourself. Yet, a bond is formed between server and servee. You'd have to be heartless to not want to sneak your customers a few extra croutons for their salad. All in all, two thumbs up. Though the social message may have been lost of me because I knew it already, the clever writing was well worth the read.And that bird who liked to sleep on her head... hilarious!
5	1023840000	What's it like to be one of the working poor? Barbara Ehrenreich went undercover to find out. A lot of people have trouble with this since she's really a well-paid academic, and not a true daughter of the working class. I don't. Because not too many people working 14 hour days write books, and no one writing books has taken the vow of poverty to find out. Nickel and Dimed ought to be required reading for everyone, especially our elected officials, as  though anything other than a fat campaign contribution can move them.The author tells her story first-hand, in a no nonsense style that is neither detached nor maudlin, and reveals as much about herself as the world she's gotten into. As it turns out, what she's gotten into means not only stretching meager dollars and cents, but holding together emotionally and physically on a weekly paycheck that probably equals the sum Bill Gates tips his favorite waiter. Moreover, I get the feeling that researcher and human being Ehrenreich just about loses it when housecleaner Holly drags around a broken foot because of abject loyalty to some abusive company policy.Oh sure, apologists for the business class will resist the book's results, since this personal account--supported, incidentally, by relevant statistics-- undercuts that hoariest of employer apologetics about hard work and dedication eventually paying off. To the contrary, numbers since 1973 indicate hard work and dedication among the working poor only guarantees more hard work and self-sacrifice. Joining the ranks of the minimum wage has become an ache-and-pain treadmill to nowhere but the nearest fast food joint and hospital charity ward. Worse, it's insulting to be called an associate or some other public relations gimmick while being treated like a convict on guest release, with short rations and short leash to boot. Nor can any amount of million dollar fuzz-over or media lack of attention alter this gut level reality that 30 percent of our work force faces daily.Despite the ad-hominem attacks on her background and motives, Ehrenreich's work fulfills one of America's finest and most honorable traditions--that of the muckraker. To her credit, she has never swapped a social conscience for a PhD entry card into a lifetime of ivory tower insouciance. So until one of those harrassed, underpaid and under-empowered women (or men) finds the time to write a better expose' , I'll be content with Dr. Ehrenreich's. In the meantime I'll be working for those measures I think will help: an increased minimum wage, universal health insurance, affordable child care and housing, repeal of Taft Hartley, and most of all, a sense of dignity for all useful work. Because, as one wag puts it, mink coats don't trickle down.
4	1023494400	I really enjoyed reading this book, and as I did I sensed it is an important book.  It made me oh-so-thankful for my well paid, not-terribly stressful position.  She actually writes quite well, she has a lot to say..and best of all, she has a healthy dose of self-irony.  For example, about her &quot;consciousness-raising&quot; subversion at Wal-Mart she concludes that she is just doing it to amuse herself while working by trying to create a fantasy that she is somehow special or above it all.  Compare this book to Bill Bryson's book on America, &quot;The Lost Continent&quot;, and you will not waste your time on Bill again.  I would very much like to meet this woman for a chat.Those things make up for all the flaws that the other reviewers infuriating at times:--Yes, she does seem to take a pointless opportunity to mention how &quot;unusually fit&quot; she is.-- She complains about the high price of gasoline in America.  Obviously she can't see things from a non-American perspective, or she would realise that the price of gas in America is so heavily subsidised that it qualifies the USA as a socialist country.  Or maybe that would be too confusing for her to address.--She doesn't have a nice thing to say about any man in this book, only women.  One needs to compensate for her own gender prejudices as she assigns herself a morally superior position on every page.  (I read an editorial in The Progressive where she uses the phase &quot;misogynist and racist&quot; about a dozen times, to rebut a welfare policy she didn't agree with;  it was her way of avoiding intellectually honest examination of the topic.)--The sanctimony of her class prejudice gets pretty tiresome, too.  In &quot;Nickel &amp; Dimed&quot; she does get snide about anyone who is affluent.  She sneers that a successful woman is keeping a chart of her newborn's bowel movements.  Gee, my wife did the same thing, do I need to apologize to Barbara for that now?  But it is a rhetorical attack--she doesn't just come out and say she thinks it is disgusting, she only implies that.  Because if she did stop being so mealy-mouthed, her attack would collapse.  So is she advocating a cultural revolution to deny women the freedom to bring up their children in the best way they know how?  So is it okay for her to take care of herself physically (by weightlifting and doing those aerobics that keep her so &quot;unusually fit&quot;), but it is not okay for other women to keep their babies fit?  She only briefly acknowledges in a throw-away line that this successful woman she despises so much is able to give work to a whole gang of people in her home.  Again, too ambiguous a reality for her.  She seems more comfortable being on a reductionist crusade, tearing strips of flesh from people who are..well, who aren't her.  Here Barbara reveals that she has a bit of growing up to do still.--The author has an irrational objection to hiring other people to clean for them.  If this wealthy woman is so talented she can earn a thousand dollars in the time it would take her to clean her house, then what is the problem with her hiring other people to do it so she can put her time into more productive things?  What is the big difference between hiring someone to vacuum your floor, and hiring someone to mow your lawn?  Or cook your food in a restaurant?  Or prepare your taxes?  Or clean your teeth?  I can't believe the author is saying that no one should provide a service to anyone else, that we should all do everything for ourselves.  But for some reason domestic work is against her rather narrow morals.  Maybe she can come up with a list of what employment it is acceptable to her that other people pursue.  That should sort us out.
4	1023408000	While I am basically living the life Ms. Ehrenreich describes in Nickel and Dimed I still found the descriptions of life in the periphery of society as being quite depressing.  Maybe it is because I only have to support myself and not a family that I didn't quite realize the scope of the "invisible".  Ms. Ehrenreich described very well how our supposed "priveleged" society is priveleged for the very few, and it doesn't have to be that way.  It's not like the Walton family will starve if they up the starting wage up a buck or promote with vigor or treat their employees as adults and not mis-behaving toddlers.  Those that promote capitalism should realize they are doing a diservice to their creed by treating so called "non-skilled workers" as they do.  Eventually not being able to feed your family will start to jade those who want a real life, and don't just want to struggle to merely survive.  We wonder why the destitue in the middle east turn to terrorism, well we can look right at home and see that any idea that is empowering is better than being [dumped] on, it will happen here rest assured if things are not evened out a bit.  This is well illustrated in Nickle and Dimed.I guess my only contention with the book is chastising those for having a "maid service" etc.  I mean these are things people use.  For instance if I had a little bit more money there is no question I would get a maid, for I am a slob.  I think the main issue is paying them what they are worth, not giving them peanuts and expecting these workers that do the dirty work to like it.If our country is so concerned with ending terrorism, how bout the terrorism of a minisule pay check and the terror of not knowing if your kid can get adequate care if somethingf horrible happens.What promises will fringe groups give in the future to those who need promises?  And who will do whatever they have to do to try and make a better future?  Isn't this the question are business leaders should be asking?  We aren't only un-ravelling in the middle east, but eventually the cloud of depression over our ghettos will turn to riots that make the L.A. riots look like a brush fire.We can stop that anger from turning violent if we wish to forego short term gluttony.
3	1022803200	Barbara Ehrenreich makes good points about the plight of poor Americans, putting up with the indignities of life on the bottom rung. The descriptions of [bad] manual labor jobs, and silly service job (...) were both moving and sadly funny at the same time.However, Ehrenreich seems to go out of her way to insult everyone who is not poor. She also constantly infers that because you or I are middle class (or better) if forces others to be poor. I think Ms. Ehrenreich harbors an (unsaid) dream of socialist utopia.
4	1022716800	The author drops her writing career and works for a short time in three states as a waitress, a maid (and nursing home assistant on weekends), and a stock sorter at Wal-Mart. It's a sort of experiment to see if she, like the millions of America's poor, can try to make enough on bare minimum wage to pay rent and food for at least a month. While this is hardly a feat of in-depth undercover journalism (Ehrenreich refuses to relinquish a car, quits the jobs after a month or when she has a rough day, and is picky about housing; George Orwell would smirk endlessly), the book more than makes its point. It is simply shocking that so many who work full time, sometimes also having another part-time job, cannot make enough to live alone. That so many of America's poorest cannot scrounge together enough to make a deposit on an apartment, so they live continuously and precariously in motels or other weekly lodgings. That so many large corporations and the vile managerial staff they employ are so devious, truculent, and willing to break the law in their constant degradation of wage employees. Wal-Mart in particular comes out looking pretty bad, the employees can't even speak to each other on the floor; however, maid referral services are also exposed as hypocritical and uncaring. Ehrenreich may not be an intrepid reporter, but she's a fine prose stylist and essayist, and she says what needs saying. Bravo.
5	1022112000	This book was very interesting and made for intelligent but easy reading.  Though this book is a quick read, it is by no means &quot;light&quot;.  Barbara Ehrenreich has opened my eyes in a way that the several sociology classes I have taken thus far in my educational career could not.It is easy to ignore the statistics of the &quot;working poor&quot; when they are delivered by a professor or news anchor but to learn the approximate experience from someone from roughly ones own class (social or economic) is truly an engaging lesson.  As a woman born into the richest 2% of the country, I am guilty of holding onto the vain belief that there is something fundamentally different between the poor and myself.  This belief is only propagated by the fact that the poor are virtually invisible to my peers and me.  I now realize that the only difference is very often money and the opportunities it offers.Even if this book did not inspire me to spring into action, it certainly helped me see how truly blessed I am and would be even with half of the luxuries I enjoy.  Also, my attitude toward America's poor has, at least, been shaken.
5	1022112000	We often think that we deal in reality and misery, with weighty decisions.  But our "reality" is so far removed from the lives of lots of our fellow citizens that the description of their lives in Nickel and Dimed will seem as foreign as a National Geographic special.Nickel and Dimed is written by a journalist who took a year "off" and joined the entry-level working class as a full-fledged member.  She became one of the people who work at the McDonalds and the Wal-Marts, and who are so frequently lampooned with the snooty "and do you want fries with that?"dismissal.  They are, in short, the people who do a lot of the dirty work in the bowels of our body politic.This is a disturbing book.  It's meant to be.  We can justify (or rationalize) ignoring its message by focusing on the law and on our "business."  But we should listen to Jacob Marley: "Mankind was my business!"The author begins with a premise that seems to make perfect sense:  "In the buildup to welfare reform, it was uniformly assumed that a job was the ticket out of poverty and that the only thing holding back welfare recipients was their reluctance to get out and get one."The author's travels take her to Key West, Maine, and  Minneapolis.  She works in restaurants as a server, where this 50 year old Ph.D. is called "waitress" and occasionally is demoted to "girl."  She works as a "dietary aide" in the Alzheimer's ward of a nursing home, where her job is to single-handedly ensure that dozens of incompetent old people are well fed, that the dishes are sanitary and that no mistakes - like a sugary sweet on a diabetic's tray - endanger her charges.  She works in the "soft-lines" of a Wal-Mart, where her primary job is to pick up after clothing shoppers who don't return items to the racks.  Finally, she signs on with The Merry Maids, one of the leading housecleaning franchisers.  There, she cleans other people's houses - and their toilets.The importance of this book is its new  perspective on poverty.  Just as John Howard Griffin's Black Like Me shocked a nation of readers with an inside view of racial segregation, Nickel and Dimed is one of the first inside views of the working poor.  Generally, the poor don't speak with their own voice - they just have non-poor people who speak for them with (I think) the very deepest of good intentions.  Those "in the pits," though, the soup kitchen servers, the rescue mission pastors, the low-end housing providers aren't writing books and speaking out - they're too busy sandbagging against the overwhelming floodwaters of human needOne reviewer compares Ehrenreich to H. L. Mencken.  She has the scalpel of Mencken, to be sure.  But she also takes a heavy, blunt object to traumatize apathy to these neighbors of ours.  Nickel and Dimed is full of enduring images: the vacant stares of nursing home patients wearing only their adult diapers; the pregnant housecleaner who gets faint every afternoon from inadequate nutrition; and the three kinds of [feces] stains in a toilet bowl. When asked if a particular middle class family is rich, one housecleaner replies, "If we're doing the cleaning, they're rich" And the cleaners sometimes seem grateful to be wiping up after others: "After all, if there weren't people who have far too much money and floor space and stuff, there could hardly be maids."  Nickel and Dimed drums away on the class theme that we seem only comfortable with living, not talking about.  But what we have done as a society is what authorities as far apart as George W. Bush and Jesse Jackson say that we never can do - we have left these people behind.  "I've noticed that many of my coworkers [at a Wal-Mart] are poor in all the hard-to-miss, stereotypical ways.  Crooked yellow teeth are one sign, inadequate footwear is another."Ehrenreich finds both cruel irony and indignity in the Wal-Mart experience.  There, the "family" of employees come and go through a revolving employment door.  If someone is lucky enough, they may get to stay long enough to have management lead The Wal-Mart cheer: "Give me a W . . ."  Well, there's the indignity. The irony comes about from employee functional poverty in the midst of the retail Mecca.  The sales people have to wear (and furnish) shirts with collars.  Ehrenreich describes a co-worker waiting, waiting for a $7 shirt to be "clearanced," because  "At $7 an hour, a $7 shirt is just not going to make it to my shopping list."There's no Potemkin-like call to action in Nickel and Dimed.  It's "just" an accurate portrayal of the way millions upon millions of people live.  As we play our games of golf (which I love), and eat regularly at T.G.I. Fridays (seen by the $7 an hour crowd as an impossible luxury), we can and we do forget the hopelessness of working poverty."If you hump away at menial jobs 360-plus days a year, does some kind of repetitive injury of the spirit set in?"  I think it does, for the poor and the not-poor.  And that may be the saddest thing about life today under our American flag.
3	1022025600	It was an interesting social experiment and at times eye-opening. But, I wish Barbara made use of public transportation -- which she seemed to shrug off. Automobiles are very expensive, and taking the bus could have allowed her to spend...extra [money] on rent (thus helping her with her housing problems -- especially in Minneapolis). Also, expensive habits like smoking ...do not help a low-income person either -- not to mention increasing the likelyhood for healthcare issues.Overall I liked it. I admire her courage to undertake this experiment and report back.
3	1021852800	&quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; confronts a topic that most journalists and writers have ignored - the working poor. It is very difficult to read Ehrenreich's book seriously without feeling a twinge of disgust. In the world Ehrenreich paints, a vast mass of the American public is permanently stuck in a universe where hard work does not equal security, and where this economic reality produces disfunctional families and lives.Ehrenreich does not attack capitalism, but as a solution, points to more progressive countries, such as those in Europe. For some reason, America is behind the ball when it comes to ensuring the well-being of its citizens, and workers enjoy no safety nets when it comes to health care and housing. I can imagine readers from other countries laughing at us in America for staying locked in some antiquated past as the rest of the world sighs and moves forward.While Ehrenreich has a good story to tell as well as the statisical and qualitative data to back it up, she alienates many readers with her crass, left-wing approach. She adds far too many insulting wisecracks, such as her rumination, while working as a maid, about the upper classes losing hair from a certain part of their body. Her comments on religion, culminating with an attack on a tent revival, rivals H.L. Mencken in terms of self-rightous, egotistical bashing for the sake of bashing.Ehrenreich has a very important point: America needs more safety nets to help the workers that sustain our economy. However, she adds too much of her own angry and confrontational personality. Kurt Vonnegut once observed that obscenities serve only one purpose: to give people who don't want to listen to you a good excuse not to listen to you. By dropping even the slightest pretense of objectivity, her message gets lost in the wash. She leaves her book open to too many attacks, communism and agitation being among them.While &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; is a book everyone should read, and most would agree with Ehrenreich's basic arguments, too many will be turned off by her near-Marxist ideology. This is sad, as the people and ideas in the book deserve more consideration, and a more impartial spokesperson.
4	1021680000	I absolutely think that everyone should read this book.  I was required to read it for school, but actually I think that I got much more out of it than expected.  So many times people take what we have for granted. Ehrenreich, did a great job of helping her readers to open their eyes more and to not overlook the lower class of america, or those struggling to get by, but to appriciate them or lend a helping hand.  It is a book that promotes national unity and appriciation.  Nickel and Dimed is a great book and I highly recommend it.
5	1021507200	This is a great book that everyone should read.  Yes, it will spur debate.  The author takes pains to point out that she can't really experience this lifestyle as one who was born to, and stuck with, it can....so I don't understand criticisms on that front.  And she wraps up by saying that even though her experience only approximates reality, it was bad enough at that.  This book made it clear to me that the poor and those on welfare are not getting free money from society -- it's exactly the opposite way around.  An excellent book.
4	1021248000	Last week I read an editorial by would-be Secretary of Labor Linda Chavez, extolling the virtues of Congress's 1996 welfare reform bill.  Chavez's column was a glowing tribute to her own naivete, talking about how the "welfare rolls" had been "cut in half", as if that were an end in itself.  Not discussed was the fate of those cast off the rolls.  How is the free job market treating them?  Do they earn well?  Are they learning job skills?  Do they have health benefits?  Are they better off today than they were five years ago?Barbara Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed" nearly answers the above questions, and the answers are all "No!".  Ehrenreich enters the private sector and takes on the low-wage jobs that mothers newly off welfare can expect to find: waitressing, cleaning, and retail.  The jobs are found in different areas of the country, rural or urban, diverse or all white, but the results are the same across the board:  low-wage workers have nothing on their side except their own optimism.One can quibble with Ehrenreich's methodology, or with her politics, or her work ethic, or with the way she chooses to write this book (the frank admission of marijuana use seems rather pathetic in this context).  However, I don't quibble with the results.  Before entering the professional world I logged time in the retail industry, and certainly the chapter on being a "sales associate" at Wal-Mart struck several chords with me all at once.  As Ehrenreich reports, so it is:  the pointless staff meetings, the ban on talking to co-workers, the strictly monitored break policy and, worst of all, the corporate videos telling you, "It's a great place to work!".  Except for the hourly wage, meager health benefits, and lack of opportunity for career advancement -- not to mention the strikes against the worker trying to raise children or eat well.All together, "Nickel and Dimed" raises far more questions than there are answers.  Ehrenreich quotes several meaningful numbers in her final chapter, but alas the book can only conclude with a paragraph that sounds like "Workers of the world may again unite".  At best, I enjoyed this book for its undercover reporting, for its portrayal of retail and management -- pay particular attention to Ted, the cleaning-franchise owner, who could carry a whole novel on his own.  While Ehrenreich might not have made a better Secretary of Labor than Linda Chavez, she's certainly better at spotting the issues.
3	1021075200	Barbara Ehrenreich champions the same cause as Ayn Rand's hero in the Fountainhead - Howard Roark. Like Roark, Ehrenreich cites the danger of the individual against the collective.  What is sad and scary is that Ehrenreich's book is not fiction and the collectivists - Wal-Mart, Merry Maids, etc. are oh so very real. The policy called &quot;time theft&quot; sounds like it came right out of the novel 1984.
5	1020902400	5-8-02I noticed that in many of the reviews of this book, manywere critical of the author - a wealthy woman with a Ph.D,facing of no real threat of being at the bottom of societyherself. Although this is true, the author states this factthroughout the book - that this cruise thru the undersideof employment in American was just that - a temporary gig.She never claimed it was anything more. I thought the bookwas exceptionally well written, funny, extremely insightfuland a valuable read. As a person who worked demeaning,back breaking, minimum wage jobs for many years, including theyears I put myself through college at [money] an hour dumpingbedpans on the nightshift, I can tell everyone that this bookis accurate - a clear and concise view from the lowest rungsof our economic system. I highly recommend it!
5	1020643200	i have tried over and over to make sense of the situation in this country.  most of the people subjected to poverty are women and children.  ehrenreich tells it like it is and exposes the struggle to make ends meet.  this is a tradgedy, especially in the 2000s!  what will it take for people to notice?
5	1020643200	"Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel" (King Lear III.iv.28).That's just what Barbara Ehrenreich did.  As politicians and pundits hailed the end of Big Government, Ehrenreich wondered how actual people were coping.  So she tried her hand (and legs and back) at some low-wage jobs.  She was a waitress, a maid, a nursing home aide, and a Wal-Mart "associate."  The book is her shocking--to me, at least--account of the conditions endured by millions of Americans.*  *  *"For the hard of hearing you shout, and for the near-blind you draw in large and startling figures" (Flannery O'Connor).Well, "Nickeled and Dimed" is Ehrenreich's shout on behalf of countless Americans: nannies who can't afford to take their own kids to the doctor, janitors who aspire to efficiency apartments, church ladies who pee in jars to pass drug tests so they can work the graveyard shift at discount stores, maids who fear (with good reason) that customers are secretly taping them, busboys who get accused of stealing ketchup packets.It is, as she says from the beginning, a personal account--sharp, clear, quirky, and gripping.  Ehrenreich doesn't offer a systematic analysis of wages and housing in the U.S.  Nor does she claim to.  She's also well aware that her stints among the working poor were short and artificial.  Her goal is to *start* a long-overdue conversation about what Michael Harrington once called "the other America."  And that she does--magnificently.
3	1020556800	After taking 2 sociology classes this semester at college I've become very interested in various social "problems" and thought picking up this book would provide some education insight into those problems.  Boy was I wrong.In the introduction, Ehrenreich said she was insipired to do this project after discussing whether or not welfare mothers could live and support their children without welfare benefits.  Although her attempt is noble and of good intention, she does it all wrong.She gives herself $1200 to start off with and maintains contacts with "her world".  She keeps a stash of "emergency money" and throughout the book mentions that in a few months, she'll be back to her PhD world writing and chatting it up with friends again.  I also found it very offensive when she mentioned at the beginning of the 3rd chapter that she didn't go to California because of "...(her)my worry that the Latinos might be hogging all the bad jobs and substandard housing for themselves, as they often do."  (page 121, paperback)  So much for sympathy and finding a solution, eh?Overall, I didn't find her very sympathetic to the problem.  She is constantly voicing her pity for those she works with which I also find offensive.  My mother worked 80-90 hours a week when I was young to raise myself and my two brothers by herself and I can tell you that those working bad jobs and barely making it don't want your pity.My final problem with her study was that she neglected to delve into the problem that got her into this study - welfare mothers.  I am a college student going to school full time and working more than 40 hours a week at fast food to pay for my schooling and everything else with no help and I make it with very little struggle, but what about welfare mothers?  Life is much easier when all you have to worry about is yourself.  Try adding another mouth to feed and another person to watch over.
4	1020211200	I was so impressed by barara's accounts and her bravery in undertaking the project. She is the only author I have ever personally written and thanked for a book. After reading Nickled and Dimed, I had this mantra in my head that my time is just not worth 8 dollars an hour.
4	1020124800	Barbara does an excellent job portraying what minimum wage workers go through.  She does this by telling the reader what her day to day life is like.  To accurately do this, Barbara has to tell readers the physical hardships her body is going through.  When doing this, she may seem like she is complaining.  She is whining, although she is whining with the purpose of enlightening people to the hardships people face every day.  I think that this book was interesting to read.  Yet it does not have any startling information for people who are currently working the jobs that she worked.  This book would be best suited for someone who is in Barbara's place in life.  Someone well educated, who has not worked a minimum wage job for many years.
2	1020038400	This book will give you a look at a couple different aspects of low wage workers.  In Barbara Ehrenreich's study, she works many different jobs in many different regions throughout the United States to show how low wage workers get treated in todays world.  Throughout her experiences she documents all of her own and her fellow workers experiences.On the other hand, if you can manage listening to her complain about working this hard low income jobs, you learn that she only works for month at a time and hear her talk about how bad she is living.  I believe you will really enjoy this book.
1	1020038400	I believe that there is a problem in our society with how much people get paid for long and hard hours of work.  And I believe it is hard for low-income workers to get by in our materialistic society. I think Barbra Erenreich had a great idea to write about this problem, however, she just doesn't deliver what she promises.The author of Nickle and Dimed, Barbara Erenreich, has her Ph.D. in biology and is the author of Blood Rites; The Worst Years of Our Lives; Fear of Falling; and many other books.  Her background might make her sound creditable but come on a Ph.D. in biology, the study she writes about in this book has nothing to do with biology.  She was suppose to be analyzing the challenges of low-wage workers around the United States to bring people up to date on what really happens.  The only analysis that I recieved from this book though was a whiny, complaining journal of Barbara's stupid choises and problems. And not enough about her co-workers real life problems and situations like I had expected.  Erenreich knew the whole time she could leave any second she wanted and that it would be over in a month, but she acted like a baby which made the story she had to tell annoying.  I have worked jobs worse then some she had and not once did I find my self complaining as much as she did.  That is what really made me hate this book, she doesn't give what she promises.  She breaks the rules, that she set for herself, and she over exaggerates her problems expecially knowing she will be done soon.  I bet not one of her co-workers, if she would have thought to ask them or interview them, would not have complained as much as she did.  The jobs they have are their life and they learned to live with what they get, thats what I have always done.  Erenreich, on the otherhand, obviously takes things for granted and doesn't know how to give up certain things to have a little more money for the essentials.  I would never recomend this book because you would get more results from getting yourself a low-wage job for the time it would take you to read her book.
3	1019865600	Barbara wrote a compelling book; not a difficult or very long read, however.  She attempted experiments in which she would sustain herself on "low-end" jobs in different areas of the United States.  Her anecdotes about cleaning toilets (definitely sans clean language, throughout the book in fact) and trying to live in dilapidated, squalid conditions, brought uproarious laughter.After reading most of the book, I expected it to end with the exclamation, "Workers of the world, unite!"  Actually, it basically did.  I have absolutely no problem with Ehrenreich saying what she has to say and her beliefs, but she has gaps in her reasoning.  For example, she mentions a coworker who wants to work her way up into a better job some day, and then seems not to realize that it happens.  Some of the people with "low end/dead end" jobs stay stuck there, but many do not, and Ehrenrich seems to assume that all of them stay stuck.  Her real-life "experiment" was remarkably limited in scope, although attempting to live on a meager income is an innovative and fresh way to discover the "hows and whys" of low-income workers' experiences and living conditions.  Had she done it longer, she probably would have gotten better at it.  People usually don't try to live somewhere for 2-4 weeks brand new to a city and then stop and move again to a far away city.  Family, friends, and familiarity with a given area, among other factors, can make cheap living possible and bearable.To be sure, take the book with a grain of salt.  The ideas are worth considering, as long as the reader remembers that an issue by definition has TWO SIDES...
4	1019779200	Barbara Ehrenreich decides to become a low-wage worker to see if she can make ends meet. She travels to three different cities, (Key West, FL, Portland, Maine, and Minneapolis, MN) to determine if anyone can get by in America with a job that pays $6-$7/hr. She becomes a waitress, a housekeeper, a dietary aide at a nursing home, a maid, and then she lands a job in the ladies department at Wal-Mart.  Ehrenreich soon finds out that it isn't easy finding a good paying job, or finding an apartment that is in a decent neighborhood for a reasonable price that would fit into her budget.  So, she lives in hotels because she cannot afford anything better.  She spends days applying at different jobs, but rarely nobody calls her back for an interview.  At a few interviews that she does have, she must take a personality test and/or a drug test before she can be hired.  Ehrenreich points out that it is almost impossible for these people to live without the financial help of a friend, a boyfriend, a husband, or a relative to live with.  This book is great because it makes more people in our society realize that minimum wage is not enough for anybody to live on and something needs to be changed.  Many people, I myself, thought that people were poor because they couldn't hold a job or because they were too lazy to find one.  But Ehrenreich points out that a good majority of the poor are people who work, but don't get paid enough to afford housing, a car, medical costs, or food.  Ehrenreich might upset people, offend them, or even make them mad, but what is important is that she talks about reality.  Sometimes she complains about some of her jobs but only to point out that these low-paying jobs aren't that great, and these people have to work these jobs for a living, and they have nothing better to look forward to.  Overall, I believe that Ehrenreich is bringing up an important issue that all people should be more aware of.  What would you do without a factory worker, a maid to clean your house, a waitress to serve you food, employees at department stores, or aides to take care of the elderly in nursing homes?  Our world wouldn't function without the help of these people who are working for $6-$7/hr because nobody else wants to. So next time you are at the store, or eating at a restaurant make sure that you appreciate what they do for you because they are getting paid much less than they deserve for serving your everyday needs.  I recommend this book to anyone who isn't fully aware that a good portion of our society is below the poverty line and deserves better, or for anyone else who can enjoy the truth of reality whether it looks good or bad, and especially for anyone who has never had to work at a low-paying job.
4	1019692800	Journalist / Doctor Barbara Ehrenreich takes on an experiment she had in mind for anyone other than herself.  Ehrenreich&#65533;s experiment was to work in a low paying environment and try to last the entire month, while paying for all of her necessities.  She did a good job at exploring and explaining how hard it is to be a lower class working person.  Ehrenreich traveled to three different locations, which were mostly bigger cities.  She takes on random jobs such as being a waitress, maid, and working at &#65533;Wal-Mart.&#65533;Ehrenreich takes an in-depth look into what it really feels like to be a lower class worker.  Something she has never experienced.  There are however downfalls to the book as well.  She fails to show compassion and lovingness towards her new colleges, possibly because she knows she will be gone in a month.Overall this book is a must read if you are interested in wondering what it is like to live in the life of a lower class worker.  This may not be the most cheerful book to read, however Ehrenreich makes an attempt to add comic relief at times when it is needed.  It is a hard book to put down and I encourage many to read this!
3	1019692800	Barbara Ehrenreich, with a PhD in biology, seems as if she would be a credible source of information.  In this book however, Ehrenreich is very biased.  The entire book consists of one view point only, the view point of the upper-middle class.  Truly the purpose of this book is to reveal the hardships of making it as a low wage worker in America, but it is written with no compassion. The book can be seen in two forms.  First it can be read as a book about a woman who works low wage jobs to expose the poor living conditions of workers trying to make it on minimum wage, and it can secondly be seen as a sort of enlightening.  It can cause the "well-off" of America to see what they have actually become.  It is definitely a book to read if you have never experienced working in a low wage situation.  If you have worked some of the lesser wanted jobs however, prepare yourself for Ehrenreich's condescending comments and her constant complaining.Another downfall of the book is the perception that Ehrenreich focuses much more on herself throughout the book than the topic at hand.
5	1019692800	Most of the people who have submitted negative reviews about this book apparently didn't get past the crucial first five pages. In the author's own words: "this is not some sort of death-defying "undercover" adventure. Almost anyone could do what I did - Look for jobs, work those jobs, try to make ends meet. In fact, millions of Americans do it every day, and with a lot less fanfare and dithering." Instead of giving us a lurid "Dateline"- style expose of working-class existence, Ehrenreich offers something much more vital: a highly detailed and intimate account of the psychological and physical toll that service-sector jobs demand of their employees. If Ehrenreich, as a healthy, educated white woman with no dependents could barely afford substandard housing while working two jobs, it's a telling indication that, for many of her overburdened coworkers, gainful employment remains frustratingly out of reach.Moreover, it's unfair to say that Ehrenreich panders to liberal sensibilities without offering viable solutions to working-class hardships. In a characteristically lively and informative fashion, she makes a series of persuasive arguments about working-class problems. Among other things, she proposes a wider availability of affordable housing and comprehensive health care plans, a living wage, and especially an abandonment of "middle management" techniques that leave laborers feeling like inmates in a prison.At a time when dot-com millionaires and cheery news reports about the rising middle class abound, it's refreshing to have someone like Ehrenreich illustrate so dramatically that many of the problems that have plagued generations of working class citizens still persist.
3	1019692800	I was assigned to read this book for a first year English class at the University of Iowa.  When I bought the book I thought it looked interesting, more so than the typical grammar book.  In fact, I was very excited to read it.  That is until I actually got to the reading part.In the introduction Ehrenreich presents this book as an honest look into the life of a low wage worker.  She keeps half of that promise.  She gives us a glimpse of the life of a low wage worker,  but not a very honest or accurate one.  The book gives many examples of inconsistency to this early promise: most people do not have the $1,200 she allowed for start up, have children to support as well, and do not have another life to return to in three months.  I think the principle of this book is a good idea, although I do not think the presentation was all it could be.Throughout the book Ehrenreich feels the need to remind the reader that this is a temporary position for her, and that in a month she will have all the privileges that come with her Ph.D.  If you can get past the numerous references to her old life and all the complaints of an aching back this is a book that can be enjoyable.Although it is difficult to finish because it is very frusterating to read a book by a woman who seems quite condescending to her co-workers because this is their "real" job and only an experiment it is worth reading to the finish.
3	1018310400	Barbara Enrenreich, successfully engages the reader in her experiences working in the lower ends of America's wage spectrum. I enjoyed reading this book - the antecdotes are interesting and the conditions of the work place and her temporary residences are relayed with chilling detail.I guess that I have two main problems with the book: first I was mislead to believe that she had lived for years working these jobs as part of her experiment to see how so many American's struggle to stay afloat. However, she only worked each job for a month. As a result, she keeps herself from every truly hitting rock bottom. Not to say that she should have kept up her &quot;practical experience research&quot; of this book until she was living on the streets and pan handling for change, but I think it would have been even more informative had she had to explore the various techniques that the working poor have to resort to to subsit.Secondly, I guess I'm just angrier than her. I'm afraid that most people will finish reading this book with no deeper impression than that they should never hire a maid service because they do a sub-standard job of cleaning, instead of thinking that it is time for America to readdress our economic priorities toward building PROSPERITY (which would be spread out to the most people possible, as a reward for their participation in the economic system) instead of building WEALTH (which serves to redirect the economic output towards the 10% who already own 90% of this country). And since I know that the author shares my opinions about the direction of the American/global economy (from reading other things she's written), I was disappointed in this failure.
4	1016668800	I used to work jobs like these, and it scared me enough to get me back to college. The author's done a marvelous job of giving us those behind-the-scenes things that many people may not realize. This book does a lot to explain why customer service leaves so much to be desired.  It's amazing what people are expected to do for $5.00 per hour.
4	1016323200	Overall, I'm glad I read this book. It's easy to see the poor as one unit of people. We need to be reminded that, although poverty is a social problem, everyone has their own story. Ms. Ehrenreich's style of writing is entertaining and completely accessible. Some of the people she encountered broke my heart. She was able to relay their stories with a refreshing lack of melodrama. And now, the criticism:I cannot support this book as anything more than anecdotal. Her methods of gathering data did not fall into any realm of reality for either investigative journalism or a sociological study. Her story was too personal to be investigative - she spent more time trying to live poor than study the poor. It wasn't scientific - anyone who's taken an Introduction to Sociology class was taught the dangers of 'going native'.Her purpose was to find out if minimum wage (or close to) would cover expenses families might face. She could have found the answer by asking anyone that worked at a fast-food restaurant, mass-merchandise retail chain, or cleaning service. Since she was going to exert all of the time and effort to become poor herself, the book could have been much more.
3	1015891200	The book is a well written account of the author's experiences in several low wage level jobs.  Makes you not want to pursue a carreer as a house cleaner, waitress...etc.I enjoyed ("enjoyed" may not be the operative  word ) the book, and underlined a lot to use in discussions with some of my more free market oriented friends. I definitely will always leave tips for the housekeepers at hotels, and urge my friends to do likewise.  The author paints a pretty bleak picture of the low income worker's lot in life. I did find the author's tying her experience into her living situations where she tried to make ends meet by leaving in cheap motels kind of a stretch.  She didn't need that aspect to paint the picture she was painting. Finally, I think the book is a good reality check for those  enjoy their upper middle class lifestyles and just cannot seem to sympathize with those who do have the get up and go to achieve a similar life style for themselves.
3	1015804800	I'm not sure I'll be able to adequately explain my feelings about this book.  While I expected to love it, it left me disappointed.  But I can't understand all the anger I've seen in reviews I have read.  Barbara Ehrenreich's heart is in the right place, I'm just not sure that she has the proper attitude or experience to write a realistic picture of what it's like to try to survive on a low paying job.  She tried, though, and I suppose I need to give her more credit for that.  Her premise is that no one can have a decent standard of living while working for minimum wage, and I agree it's very difficult.  But she believed that before she started her experiment, and I don't think she learned anything new from her adventures in the world of low paying jobs.  She only searched for details that confirmed what she already believed, and in the end, she persists in placing blame on the workers who probably feel trapped in a situation they don't know how to leave.I think that the major fault I find with this book is Ms. Ehrenreich's attitude.  She seems condescending towards her fellow employees and resentful towards her employers.  And at all times, it's obvious that she can't understand what it really feels like to have to live on what she's making.  She knew she would never have to.  Her attitude towards her co-workers is perhaps understandable.  What seems most inconsistent to me is her opinion towards ALL of her bosses.  I was especially disappointed in her description of one of her managers at Wal-Mart.  She introduced her boss, Ellie by saying "I like Ellie", but then went on to scornfully describe her style as "the apotheosis of 'servant leadership'...the vaunted 'feminine' style of management."  What's wrong with a person in a position of responsibility showing some respect for those she manages?  Why couldn't Ms. Ehrenreich just accept her good luck in having a supervisor who was a genuinely nice person?  I'm sure Ellie isn't getting rich on what she made at Wal-Mart, either.  The pay scale for EVERY job within that store probably compares unfavorably to any work with which the author has ever supported herself!The author's attitude towards the people whose houses she cleaned in Maine also troubled me.  They are not the cause of the low pay and long hours she and her co-workers endured.  It was obvious that Ms. Ehrenreich was ashamed of cleaning houses, of being in a role she saw as subservient.  It isn't like that for everyone.  Friends I have had who cleaned houses for a living, even through an agency, often became friends with the people whose homes they cleaned and I never had the impression that my friends felt inferior to the homeowners.  However, it does seem obvious to me that the owner of the agency Ms. Ehrenreich worked for was being very short sighted when it came to his attitude on wages.  By refusing to even consider a pay raise for his employees in what seemed to be a tight pool of potential workers, he was guaranteeing that his business would not grow.Many of my personal feelings about this book come from the fact that from 1980 until 1993, I supported myself with a series of low paying jobs, everything from fast food worker, to telephone sales, to even Wal-Mart.  Did I live well?  At times I did.  Most of that time I worked at least two jobs at a time, often with fewer than one or two full days off each month.  But like Ms. Ehrenreich, I had the advantage of being a single woman with no children to support.  I have no doubt that had I been raising children, I would have needed some kind of financial assistance.  Things I could choose to do without as an adult would not be an option for a mother.  Could a mother with children live without a car?  Could I have given my children a good life without access to affordable health insurance?  Could a mother with children live in a three-room furnished attic apartment with about 300 square feet of space?  I have nothing but admiration for all the people supporting themselves and their families on low wages.  Often people who knew I worked two jobs would ask why I worked so much, even inquiring if I had children to support.  I always laughed and replied, "If I had children, how would I afford all the child care I would need to pay for to work so much?  When would I have time to actually spend time raising my own children?"  But even working up to 60-70 hours each week, the most I ever made in a year was about $18,000 gross.  A careful, single woman (or man) could manage pretty well on that.  But how could anyone support a family on those wages?  While the author feels sorry in an abstract way for the difficult position of her fellow workers, she didn't come away from her experience with much compassion for them.  She still doesn't understand that in the world of workers with few skills or little formal education, there are few choices, yet most of these people work very hard and take some pride in what they do.  I expected this book to display more respect for workers who provide very necessary services to our society.
5	1015718400	For many people, the immense growth of global companies like Wal-Mart has meant extreme wealth, and/or cheap convenient shopping.  For many others, those that have to work there on a daily basis, the Wal-Marts of the world represent something completely different.It's living at or near the poverty level, being only one step away from the homeless shelter, not having access to adequate medical treatment, and not having the opportunity to learn new, marketable skills to advance beyond the current situation.If you've ever worked at a fast food restaurant, Wal-Mart, or other near minimum wage job, you can identify with the folks Barbara encounters in "Nickel and Dimed".During her travels, Barbara works at a Wal-Mart, in a nursing home, and a restaurant among others.  As could be expected, the experiences are less than rewarding.  They are fraught with humiliation, grueling mindless work, and constant struggles just to maintain basic necessities such as a car (or even some kind of public transportation just to get back and forth to work), housing, and food.  Forget about health insurance, dining out, and many of the other "luxuries" many of us take for granted; its just not part of the picture.With all the "prosperity" in the US, one would expect situations such as there to be the exception rather than the rule.  Unfortunately its not, and the proportion of people that live this life is growing.Must a profitable business come at the expense of sane, safe, rewarding working conditions where people treat each other like human beings?  Barbara's experience would seem to indicate that.  It's just not so.No matter what your financial status, this is an eye-opening book, more so for some than others.  Awareness is a good first step to bringing about change but until public policy changes to encourage businesses to invest in people and pay living wages significant change will be an uphill battle.
5	1015286400	Much like "Fast Food Nation", this book should be required reading.  Although most of us have had low-paying jobs whenwe were in high school or college, many of us are lucky enough not to have to continue in those types of jobs as an adult.For those who do, though, the road is much tougher than the people people who hate welfare recipients think.  As Ms. Ehrenreich found, some people who work full-time - or even somewho work two jobs - still have trouble paying for basic necessities.I'd read some criticism of Ms. Ehrenreich and this book, but Ithink she did an incredible job.  She didn't just work at one or two fast-food jobs from the comfort of her real home - she worked at half a dozen menial jobs in restaurants, hotels, in a rest home, a maid service, and a Wal-Mart, in three different states.  She found co-workers living in cars, living four to a hotel room, going without medical care because they couldn't afford medicines or treatment, going without lunch for the same reason, showing up for work when sick or injured because they couldn't afford to lose the income, and the list goes on.I highly recommend this book.  I couldn't put it down and stayedup until 1 a.m. two nights in a row reading it.
4	1014336000	Barbara Ehrenreich performed a courageous experiment in social downward mobility in Nickel and Dimed, her exploration of what life is really like for those at the bottom of the payscale, now that welfare has been "reformed."While it's not in the class of George Orwell's classic Down and Out in Paris and London, Ehrenreich gives us a real taste of what it feels like to work in the service economy, and how your job and your employer rule (and can ruin) your life.Her style is serviceable, with the occasional flourish ("The floor is slick with spills, forcing us to walk through the kitchen with tiny steps, like Susan McDougal in leg irons"), and her leftist viewpoint will either please or enrage you, depending on your outlook.In the boom times about which Ehrenreich is writing, things were hard enough near the bottom of the economic ladder. God knows what things are like for the waitresses, housecleaners and Wal-Mart "associates" today. But I'm glad that Barbara Ehrenreich made her experiment in downward mobility, and came back to tell the tale. My only real reservation is that the conclusions in her final chapter don't seem to dig deep enough, and that she seems more interested in patting herself on the back ("I think it's fair to say that as a worker, a jobholder, I deserve a B or maybe B+") than extrapolating from her personal experience to reach wider conclusions. But it's a small flaw in an otherwise fascinating book.
5	1014249600	I read this book with a mixture of amusement and dismay.  Amusement because I recognized so many of the situations she described - all the wacky things people do and put up with to survive - and dismay because I was reminded how depressing, degrading and exhausting it was to live on the kinds of jobs she describes.  Not only has Ehrenreich captured the essence of what it means to live on minimum wage, doing work that no one else wants, but has clearly and compassionately articulated the issue facing us as a nation as well.  America is supposed to be the land of opportunity where hard work and tenacity pays off.  Instead it has become the home of millions of hardworking poor who despite their efforts can do little more than survive.  This is not a pleasant book to read, but it's a good one.
5	1014163200	NICKELED AND DIMED (2001) by Dr. Barbara Alexander Ehrenreich, Ph.D. (Biology, Rockerfeller University, NYC 1968) is a good book worth reading about an important subject.  Dr. Ehrenreich's book offers neither an index nor a bibliography, however.  The absence of these makes her important book far less useful than would have been the case had they been provided.Good as NICKELED AND DIMED (2001) is, the book is fraught with shortcomings.  It's a "is the glass half full or half empty?" situation.  Given the fact that so few widely distributed books on the subject of the War on the Poor in America are available in these days of the most recent (2002) Bush Dynasty presidency, I'm glad to have a half full glass, which beats the [heck] out of an empty one.Doc Ehrenreich's description of her travails at [a local retailer] is very good.  The Evaluation chapter at the end of the book is also good.The book is about several jobs the author took of the low level, almost minimum wage type.  It describes her experiences getting and handling these jobs, and also trying to pay her living expenses based on the scant income she received. She makes the true point that nobody could possibly survive on money provided by almost minimum wage jobs of the [local retailer] type.In the early 70's, the president of Haverford College, Dr. John Coleman, who at the time was also president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank, used part of his sabatical year to take three grim and grimey blue collar jobs of the unskilled, low paid type.  He, too, wrote a book about what he faced, and how he got through it all. It was called BLUE COLLAR JOURNAL (1974). Another good book.  Also with no index.  Also written by a Ph.D.It's sort of the BLACK LIKE ME book idea, but without racial themes or problems. How the "other half" (other 80%?) live.Well, Dr. Ehrenreich gets"A" for good intentions, and also for actually getting a book published about what's become almost a never discussed subject: dreadful jobs at low money in a high expense world (especially with regard to housing and transportation) and the efforts of people to survive it all.We owe a lot to Doc Ehrenreich for providing this book.It's a shame, however, the needed index and bibliography are missing...and she certainly knows better.
5	1013126400	Among the untold number of books published every year, a tiny percentage may be suitable for everyone, and of those only a few are must read for everyone. "Nickel And Dimed" is one of them. The Author, Barbara Ehrenreich, takes a courageous journey into a life that we all do our best to avoid. She works at low paying jobs and lives on the pay she gets from them. She learns first hand what it means to be a waitress, a maid, or a sales clerk for a retail giant. As she shares her experience with us, we catch a glimpse of a part of our society and culture that we may only be intermittently aware of at best. This is not a book about how things ought to be, but rather how things are. Ehrenreich provides answers to some perplexing questions such as why economic prosperity and labor shortage do not translate into higher wages.
5	1012953600	Barbara Ehrenrich is an essayist and social critic who determined to reveal what it was like to be a member of the working poor. An estimated 12 million women were pushed into the labor market by welfare reforms in the 1990s. Ehrenreich has done a remarkable and unique work of personal journalism to find out just how such women were going to survive on the wages of the unskilled--at $6 to $7 an hour -- only half of what is considered a living wage. To research her subject she became a waitress in Florida, a cleaning woman and nursing home assistant in Maine, a Wal-Mart clerk in Minnesota. She experienced life as a member of the "working poor" -- right down to the manditory urine test. The result was her debunking of the notion that there would be positive psychological effects in just getting out of the house, as well as such unintended consequences as swiftly rising rents, workers taking as many days off the job as they can, and a chronic infringement of civil liberties as this unskilled and semi-skilled workforce are managed (perhaps it should be mis-managed) by their employers. Written with both wit and candor,Nickel And Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America is a terrific and insightful read. It is also available in paperback.
2	1012694400	...tired rhetoric from the left.  Worse, the author did only a very cursory effort at &quot;living the life.&quot;  I'd love to sell the book to get SOMETHING positive out of it but unfortunately I tossed it in a dumpster.  That is where it belongs.  Other than that, a great snoozer.
5	1012694400	I am amazed at some of the reviews posted here. This book does nothing more then bring to light what life is like working at minimum wage. "Nickel and Dimed" is for our age what Upton Sinclair's book "The Jungle" was for his time. Call her elite, call her aloof, but the fact remains that there is a serious problem in this country, and she makes people aware of it. This book was written from the perspective of an upper-middle class woman, and you have to expect that she is going to see it from that vantage point. I don't think this book was written for a person working at Wal-Mart, or somebody working as a maid in Maine. If upper-middle class people can relate to Barbara because she is like them, I say all the better. These are after all the people best positioned to change this situation; they are the people with enough political clout to get something done. In the final analysis we have to decide as American's if this is the kind of country we want to live in. I personally believe that this isn't what we want for our country. Is this the American dream? Is this the land of opportunity? Didn't we once believe that anybody that was willing to work hard and follow his or her dream could succeed in this country? This book ought to be required reading for every member of congress and for the Rush Limbaugh's of the world that have gotten out of touch with what it means to be at the bottom of the sociological economic food chain. I recommend it highly!
5	1012348800	Excellent literary nonfiction about the reality of trying to live on minimum wage. We ignore the message at the peril of all of us. The criticisms already posted are beside the point; even if the best decisions had been made, could YOU manage to make ends meet on minimum wage ANYWHERE in the U.S.? Small towns offer no panacea; there is a critical lack of affordable housing everywhere in this country. We all pay -- in one way or another -- for this reality of our economic and social system, but these low-wage workers pay for it in day to day frustration and in battered self-esteem, as well as very real deprivation of necessities. Clean, safe housing; healthy food; adequate healthcare -- all of these should be available to all who work in our wealthy, privileged country; working folks shouldn't have to forego one in order to have another, particularly not while others make vast profits from their labors. Ehrenreich shows us the truth of the lives of far too many in the U.S. Well done, Barbara, and thank you for living this experiment.
5	1011139200	Is it true what they say? That you can live and survive on an hourly wage of $5 to $8? The author set out to prove, or disprove, it by taking three menial jobs for a month each in three different parts of the country. What she finds, and describes in detail, is well worth studying. We not only learn astounding details about these jobs, but come away with a new sense of respect for the millions of our co-citizen who live below the poverty line with very few complaints.This book is a must-read for everyone who engages somebody's services and disregards the humane side of it.
4	1011052800	Back in the late 1960's, social critic Ferdinand Lundberg in his book _The Rich and the Super-Rich_ pointed out that wealth is not a function of wages, but rather of owning property that produces a sufficient amount of income to provide for some minimally acceptable standard of living. Your property, unlike an employer, can't fire you, much less exploit, sexually harass, surveil or otherwise humiliate you the way a boss can.By this definition, tens of millions of even &quot;well-paid&quot; Americans with little or no net worth are not that far removed from the plight of the lumpen service workers Ehrenreich profiles in her book. I suspect this uncomfortable awareness in the back of our minds explains why some of the reviews direct anger towards Ehrenreich's audacity in suggesting that we have a structural problem in this country when it comes to wages versus the costs of living. Unless you are already financially independent and flush with savings for medical emergencies, I wouldn't feel too cocky about my security if I were you. By showing how service workers are regimented and disciplined by the &quot;free&quot; market, she contributes to the growing realization that the &quot;abundance&quot; and &quot;affluence&quot; in this country are somehow illusory.
1	1010966400	What first interested me about this book was the title.  Perhaps the only redeeming quality about the book, the title, led me to believe that she would be writing about the low-wage and labor problems in America.  I thought it would be a treatise on how underpaid and overworked Americans are.  Instead, Ehrenreich &quot;decides&quot; one day that she will become one of America's low-wage earners.  She is able to start off with a budget of $1200, which she uses to establish herself in her new surroundings.  The reality of others having $1200 to start off with is absurd.  I get the feeling that Ehrenreich believes she is lowering her living and intellectual standards by delving into a world she knows nothing about.  In one section she grossly compares waaring her Maids uniform to being black (she is stared at and feels ostracized wherever she goes) and in another, she comments on how difficult it will be for her to get a job because of all the Latinos that scoop them up first.Ehrenreich was underprepared and short-sighted in this assignment. She not only lost credibility as a writer but also lost points as a compassionate person. She wanted to know how people survive on $6 an hour but rarely focused on the people that have lived this way for most of their lives. We know how she survived...I found the book to be offensive and condescending.  How nice that when she tires of being a low-wage earner in America she can return to her padded life with her books and her Ph. D.
3	1010707200	I must commend Ms. Ehrenreich on a very interesting book as she has provided the reader with great insight into how many Americans have to, unfortunately, live their lives.As part of the project Ehrenreich "leaves behind" her writing profession to see if she can survive on today's working wages. The common thread amongst the jobs she takes it that they were all physically demanding jobs that were mind numbing and typically earned under $10 an hour. She has startup money (first and last months' rent) and a car to use and very quickly discovers that life's basic needs can barely be met on minimum wage. She specifically addresses issues of affordable housing (not plentiful), food (she can't eat healthy or often) and medical insurance or the lack thereof offered in such positions.Ms. Ehrenreich's quickly finds that it is almost a necessity to work two jobs to support herself living alone if she earns under $10 an hour, something that didn't surprise me at all. She definitely sheds some light on the working poor, specifically single mothers re-entering the workforce.My conclusion: I learned a lot and definitely sympathize for working mothers but she never addresses key social and personal issues such as (1) drug use - SHE USES DRUGS - drugs will hold you back in our society (2) Education - if you don't have one you are forced into poverty so graduate from high school, get a loan and go to college and (3) Past mistakes affect a person's future.The book was wonderful but I was driven nuts by the fact that none of these "characters" wanted to move ahead in life via an education. If you don't have a higher education in today's society you will frequently be forced into labor-oriented jobs where you are nothing more than a COG (cost of good) in the corporate machine. The education is used as a signaling effect to people/companies that "I want to get ahead in life," not so much that people with a degree are naturally brighter than others. What about self respect? DREAMS? Working towards those dreams? Measuring progress? All I kept seeing was mindless people that didn't want to take on responsibilities except going through life a day at a time without planning.
5	1010361600	Some of the reviews mentioned that education is the key to NOT become a low-paid worker, and other implied that it is in fact the fault of the individual person to end up in a low-paid job.Wake up: Many people don't have the necessary education that it takes to get a better job not because they did not want to get further education, but because they weren/t able to - money, health, family situation are just a few of the reasons that may be an obstacle to some.There are also other people out there who just don't have the skills to aquire further education - and the only repsonse from us is: bad luck???I can only say: I am happy that I have a high paid job, and you would have to pay me more money than I am earning right now to get me to work in a low paid job -  even though my job requires way more skills, I would be very reluctunt to do a low-paid job that usually consistent of the same few routines.The US prides itself as being one of the riches countries in the world, but in fact it only few are rich. And what about &quot;United we stand&quot;? United in what? Being American? Many European country, and even our friends up North are doing a much better job in taking care of each other - yes, you can't make as much money as you can here, but the majority of the poeple there have a much better life and a higher standard of living than we have.
4	1010275200	Barbara Ehrenreich's excellent expose couldn't have been more perfectly timed. Although many of us already had an inkling about the pathetic situations facing the new working poor (which used to be the middle class), her book puts the facts right under everyone's noses. Unfortunately, she doesn't seem to offer any answers, but at least she finally gets the public discussion rolling. Anyone who's scrimped and scraped and starved their way through college, then through their first low-paying &quot;professional&quot; job and then finally graduating to a &quot;real&quot; job that pays a living wage can clearly grasp and understand the desperation working mothers face in our exploitative low-wage jobs. The big difference is that most college students can expect their situations to improve over the years as they graduate to an active consumer, middle-class lifestyle, whereas the majority of working mothers, frankly, do not stand a chance of any such advancement. In our rich, highly productive society, that is a damn shame.
5	1010016000	This book is based on a bold experiment. Ehrenreich voluntarily  placed herself in a highly vulnerable position (one shared with perhaps several million others) and explains what happened next. She knew that her situation would not be permanent. She carefully observed those around her. She asked lots of questions. Most important, she absorbed and digested her and others' experiences which later served as the core material of this book. For me, there are several lessons to be learned and the most valuable of those lessons suggests that getting as much formal education as possible is no guarantee of success in life but it is frequently a decisive factor. I wish this book had been available when my three sons and daughter entered high school. I plan to give a copy of it to each of the grandcildren as a 14th birthday gift. How easy it is for most of us to take what Leona Helmsley once called &quot;the little people&quot; for granted. They serve fast food meals at the counter, they fetch dry cleaning, they dry off cars which emerge from the car wash conveyor, etc. Generally, they are unskilled to do much else.  This book helps its reader to gain a much better understanding of  those who struggle (with mixed results) to &quot;get by&quot; in our society. To Ehrenreich's credit, she never glorifies nor demeans any of those with whom she was associated. She admires their courage and respects their dignity. At least by implication she suggests that her reader do so also.
5	1009929600	Above All, B. E. is an excellent writer whose prose style alone kept me reading. Her topic was as interesting as it gets, although I will admit to be biased in that I was in the situation of having low paying jobs and barely making ends meet (despite my education background, I might add). I am shocked by the poor living conditions and the amount of mental abuse suffered daily by these hardworking people. Of particular interest to me is E's commentary on the health and diet of these &quot;working poor&quot; and how poverty pushes them into, for example, unhealthy, fast-food dominated eating habits that the public generally deplores and characterizes as slovenly and irresponsible. (Consider how society criticizes the overweight.)Not much thought is given to those whose poor diets are dictated by homelessness, lack of a kitchen and utensils, and no health insurance. This book is a must-have.
5	1009670400	Ehernreich's _Nickel and Dimed_ is expectedly revealing: she reveals the difficulties she had in obtaining cheap housing, the prejudices against her gender and race in her quest to be employed in three cities, and the surprising level of difficulty that she had with low-paying jobs.  However, her book excels by touching on a key point in all of her experimental dives into the working poor class: her frightening conclusion is that, after a month, she couldn't make it to the next month or two, either financially, physically, or spiritually.Ehrenreich notes more than once that she had a head start in her attempts to start a new life in Florida, Maine, and Minnesota.  She was raised well, had an education, and was in good health.  Nevertheless, the physical, spiritual, and financial toil that she had to undergo to secure a job, residence, and some sense of order is a seemingly insurmountable goal even for this subject that, in a sense, had an advantage over her low-paid comrades.The strongest take-away from this journalists' plight is that, daily, masses upon masses of people are undergoing her experiences without the escape hatch of an experiment.  Despite all of the exposed difficulties, problems, and outright unfairness of beloning in the working poor class of America, the most frightening is that, unlike the author, these people cannot easily escape.
5	1009584000	The really horrible thing is that so many of us require a well-written book like this one to stir up some empathy for the flesh-and-blood folks whose down-and-out plights we ignore every day!  Even the coldest of yuppies will surely feel a twinge of guilt and remorse after reading Ehrenreich's chapter on maids.  But how many ever gave their real maids a second glance--except when the work wasn't done to their satisfaction?In a country which consumes 60% of the world's goods, you'd think we could treat fellow citizens a bit better.  Reading Ehrenreich's new book ought to make you sad, and guilty, and mad, and then determined to change the way things are
4	1009497600	Barbara Ehrenreich has written a compelling, highly readable, at times even entertaining work of investigative journalism.  Going undercover in the low-wage service economy, she sets out to argue a thesis: that it is impossible to keep body and soul together working full-time in a job that pays at or slightly above the minimum wage.  She makes her point convincingly and with passion.  The book's flaws have mostly to do with its pervasive overtone of class warfare and its essentially Marxist worldview on labor and management, because these tend to oversimplify the real problems Ehrenreich documents.  At its best, Ehrenreich's writing is by turns eloquent and droll; at its worst, it can be sour and preachy.This book is a narrative, not a formal or quantitative study.  But suffice it to say that Ehrenreich provides enough anecdotes and evidence to leave little doubt about her basic point: even allowing herself a few extra advantages at the outset (like a car; no public transportation), she could not as a single woman afford decent housing and a healthy diet, let alone health insurance, on her wages as a waitress, nursing home aide, maid, or Wal-Mart "associate" - at least not without working more than one full-time job at a time.  She effectively documents what seem to be endless obstacles - some structural, some simply petty --  that keep low-wage workers from getting ahead.  (To name one important example: the inability, when one is living weekly paycheck to weekly paycheck, to save up for a security deposit and a first month's rent on an apartment, thus creating dependence on seedy and overpriced weekly motels).Ehrenreich, a distinguished left-wing journalist, seems to find ample support for her biases.  In the low-wage world she chronicles, managers and supervisors (who happen to be mostly men) are invariably creeps, "twerps," or worse; workers (who seem to be mostly women) make up the heroic proletariat.  Drug tests, theft deterrence, and employment screening are Orwellian intrusions designed to grind down workers' self esteem and initiative.  Though she sometimes gets exasperated by her co-workers' travails (and their lack of class consciousness), had Ehrenreich set out to write a more balanced analysis she would have delved into the dysfunctions and bad decisions (poor choices in boyfriends seem to be a recurring theme) that contribute to the economic and personal pathologies suffered by those whose lives she shared for a few weeks at a time.  Ehrenreich concludes after her sojourn as waitress in a greasy-spoon chain eatery: "Cooks want to prepare tasty meals, servers want to serve them graciously, but managers are there for only one reason - to make sure money is made for some theoretical entity, the corporation...." Indeed, the essential goodness, generosity, and work ethic of her co-workers often comes through.  Still, as anyone who has actually supervised low-wage help for any period would know, this is a highly romanticized tableau.Oddly for someone who has written extensively in other works about the middle class, Ehrenreich's rhetoric at times leads one to believe the world is mainly divided into two classes: the very well-off who benefit from exploitative work arrangements, and the low-wage laborers who clean their extravagant homes, scrub their toilets (Ehrenreich, in a cheeky mood, devotes entire paragraphs to feces and pubic hair), and tend to their elderly and infirm.Ehrenreich's book was researched and written during the booming prosperity of the late 1990's and its neo-conservative enthusiasm for sending welfare recipients into the workforce.  It will be interesting to see whether the current recession focuses new attention on the problems and needs of service workers whom she justly argues have become virtually invisible to the rest of us.  Had she set out to write a more objective study, Ehrenreich's book might have been even more persuasive, though it also might have been less interesting.
1	1009411200	Ehrenrich starts with a lie. Journalism is not, as her editor suggests, going out and pretending to be someone you're not in order to imagine what it might really be like if one only weren't pretending. Journalism or even good, basic writing about life, requires a better locating and understanding of the facts, and then applying some consistent logic to the analysis.Worse, Ehrenreich doesn't even come close to approximating the real conditions of the people she is attempting to imitate. She owns a car. She stakes herself to start up funds. She picks where she wants to go to work. She refuses to share a room with anyone. Her "real life experience" is not real, not life and not much of an experience. She declines to use public transportation because she'd have too much material stemming from the time on the bus. She would have been wise to reflect on the bus and to skip the self-indulgent auto.At work, she ignores the obvious and responds to gossip and her biases. She plays cute when she wants to, assumes management is evil and that her co-workers are innocent victims, acts surprised and is unable or unwilling to comprehend that poor lifestyle choices condemn some people to a downward spiral, and she does nothing to consider her lot in this assumed life.Many Americans -- in fact, tens of millions of them -- have experienced the same work she casually explores. But, most of those millions used this work experience as a stepping stone to further work. These same people also made these same work sacrifices, postponed gratification, kept off drugs, stayed out of jail, remained married, shared rooms, walked to work, studied on the side, and learned important lessons from demeaning jobs. Lessons like showing up for work on time, learning work skills, putting in something extra to get ahead and, perhaps most important, that a job is most often a dead end only if you let it be one.Her archival research, witnessed by scant, odd footnotes, is at times drawn from special interest groups. She uses them to reinforce her snide asides, not to illuminate or to expand upon an observation. Better research and a much more enlightening and satisfying read is the very well-documented and straightforward "The millionaire next door", a book that resulted from two serious authors finding that their original assumptions did not stand up to the data and to reality. Or read Cox and Alm's richly detailed 1999 book, " Myths of rich and poor" (Basic). Check your biases at the door, look at the facts, and report with clarity.Yes, there are bad jobs, bad companies, and bad people out there. But this book does not help anyone understand how to break the circle of poverty or how to simply be a better person, employer or work colleague.
5	1009065600	Ehrenreich's book is a must read in contemporary America. She does an experiment where she attempts to survive on low wage jobs, which include a maid service, Wal-Mart, and a chain restarant. She takes on burning issues such as low-wage work, the housing market, and welfare reform. In this book, she makes the poor visible. In our highly stratified, segregated society, the increasingly marginalized low wage worker can be invisible: you don't always really see the person who makes your hotel rooms clean or your restarant meals appetizing. It is all too easy to look right past them. Some of us are not always aware of the humiliation of the drug and personality tests we are forced to take to get even the most humble of jobs.  You do not always understand the pride one can take in his or her work, whether it is serving you another iced tea or neatening the clothes rack at your favorite store.  Ehrenreich also points out bitter social ironies--such as wealthy homeowners who pay big bucks to take Buddhists retreats at which they do humbling tasks, yet pay low wage maid services to clean their own houses. She makes the startling point that low wage employees are the actual philanthropists in our society, often working unpaid overtime and facing various other hardships so that higher-income people may enjoy cheaper goods, faster meals, cleaner houses. I must admit, though I have always tried to respect anyone who tries to make an honest living, I came to the end of this book appreciating low wage workers even more. That is because Ehrenreich really humanized the people she worked with at these undesirable jobs. She went out of her way to show that they are people who are just as good as anyone else. Ironically enough, the very day I started this book, I saw a man who bags groceries at the grocery store where my husband works: he was reading one of Victor Hugo's novels over his lunch break. It really struck me that I could walk into any white collar break room and be amazed to see anyone reading Hugo. Finally, the best part of Ehrenreich's book is that she does not merely prove the fact that poverty is an increasingly vicious cycle, she also offers current information and would-be solutions.  With 30% of Americans working in low wage jobs, I think this is a book that is too important to miss.
5	1008806400	I wanted to read this book because I heard Barbara on several interviews. I, too, had some problems with her brief trial of living poor, when for so many it is not a choice; however, I believe her intent was to point out the truth about poverty: hard work does not equal success in this country. Success is mainly a product of rich parents, a college education, good breaks, and an ability to sell oneself due to a good self-image and some smarts. When you start at the bottom, in most cases it is nearly impossible to break free of that. Middle class is not what I am talking about. I am talking about kids who start out malnourished, abused, without proper health care, in inner city schools, and with single/split and less than interested parents. It is okay to &quot;make wrong choices&quot; when rich, because money can fix alot of things. If you are poor, it means the door not only closes but locks.It is time for America to stop believing the Horatio Alger myth, and find out why thousands of children go without proper nourishment, education, safety, housing, and opportunity in this land.It is also time to remember the middle class is a buffer from revolution. When it is forced to the lower class, we all will pay.Also remember that there is no us &amp; &quot;them&quot;. What will you do when you get your lay off papers?Bravo, Barbara!
5	1008547200	This is a great book, not that it is perfect, or even always right. It is great because it is a subject that everyone needs to face.As a white, educated male who has been able, through advantage, cleverness and luck, to succeed reasonably well in this culture and economy, I cannot vouch for those who are stuck in the Hell of low wages, unpaid bills, and lost dreams.But I have had some of the types of jobs that Ms. Ehrenreich speaks of, for the years when I was just out of college and didn't want to live at home, and didn't know what I wanted. I know what it is like to bus tables, dig ditches, clean up construction sites, do field work, work the night shift in a flea-bag hotel, and be a gardener for the wealthy.. Those memories stay with me forever, and I will always have respect and compassion for the people who do those tasks. For me it wasn't demeaning or hopeless, really, because I, like Ms. Ehrenreich, knew it was temporary. If a customer or a boss treated me like dirt, I could insult them right back. I could quit on the spot (which I did more than once), and laugh about it, because I had no fear at 23 yrs old and a B.A. I had the luxury of being able to strike back against snobbery, racism, and sexism (normally directly at my fellow workers). But what about those who fear losing their job, who have to take such abuse, who lack hope? Some of can't really know what that is like... The people in power who treated us workers with respect, generosity, and humor made our days go so much more easily.It is easy for some of us to say, &quot;Look at those who have risen above all that, in spite of the sexism, racism, and classism that exist. How did they do it?&quot; Well, some people are just exceptional, and will thrive no matter what, but they are not the norm. Exceptional people can be good models for patterns of behavior, etc. But exceptional intelligence, strength, and patience are often inborn. And then there is luck.What about the rest of us? If we lack some of the obvious advantages, we need help, respect, better opportunity, a break...What can we do personally? Say thank you and mean it. Give a big tip. Remember who picked the lettuce and tomatoes for your salad, and thank them, even silently. Treat those who serve you with respect, even when they make mistakes; they are your equals, not your inferiors. Support legislation that raises the minimum wage.If you are a person of means and have a son or daughter of college age, make them get a job anyway, even just for the Summer. She should be a waitress, and he should load and unload trucks. They won't forget it, will make important friendships, and will take nothing for granted after that. Maybe they will grow to be happy, compassionate adults dedicated to helping others, rather than like so many of the unhappy, isolated, unfulfilled, young professionals who think they have everything but somehow feel that something is missing.
5	1008115200	Being a sociology major at Michigan State University, one of my professors recommended that I read this book, and I absolutely loved it. Ehrenreich is an amazing writer, bringing humor to the not so humorous topic of minimum wage. She takes you to expericance first hand low income occupations such as waitressing in Florida, housecleaning in Maine, and working at Wal-mart in Minnesota. I quickly became attached to Ehrenreich and her quest to expose the back-breaking monotony of these low-class jobs. Through reading Nickle and Dimed, I realized how fortunate I am, and how affordable housing and minimum wage is a very real and serious problem in America today.
2	1008028800	i take issue with the nearly hysterical &quot;christine&quot; below talking about how she knows the score on the poverty line.it may be impossible to live on $250 a week if you want cable, two phone lines, booze and cigarettes every day, and to live near a major city. i lived on less than six dollars per hour and 350 dollars per month for a couple of years in a small city in the southwest. sometimes working 4 part time jobs and generally having a good time with it. when i got fed up with it, i moved to where there were better jobs. if your situation is impossible, change it. criminey.americans are so spoiled, on the way to being a nation of victims where no one is responsible for where they end up in life. whether the leviathan owes anyone a second chance or is obliged to hold a gun to the heads of corporate america to raise salaries, there are *few* people who genuinely couldn't improve their situations by taking responsibility; even with everything that is wrong with american society.this book solidifies the new american definition of responsibility: confession. just cry out and somehow that is taking responsibility.
1	1007769600	In this book, the author, Barbara Ehrenreich, took time out of her busy upper-class life as a writer/journalist to see if she could make ends meet in the unskilled job market.  It was no surprise to find out that she could not.  Ehrenreich is trying to make an important point about the needs of the working poor in this country, but her approach may hurt her cause more than it helps.While reading this book, I was continually distracted by an ever-increasing dislike for its author.  The author was incredibly self-aggrandizing.  In her &quot;evaluation&quot; section, where I assumed she would be evaluating the ability of a low-income worker to survive, she spends the first several pages patting herself on the back for being such a hard worker.  Although Ehrenreich is a well-received author with a PhD in biology, the author seems like a bored socialite who for whom the poor are a &quot;hobby.&quot;Ehrenreich gives lips service to the traditional liberal ideals, but doesn't seem at all kind-hearted or giving.  For example, she admits that while working at Wal-Mart she planted seeds of discontent with her co-workers not in a serious attempt to unionize, but was rather, &quot;just amusing myself.&quot;Perhaps more importantly, the author doesn't seem to consider her audience with anything other than contempt.  Who does she think is reading the book?  To whom is she selling her message?  Only others like her? Her insensitivity insults and alienates a large portion of the populace, and potentially clouds her message.  To name a few examples, the author criticizes or ridicules Christians, midwesterners, fat people, short people, people who live in trailers, fraternity members, people who hire maids, teachers, the elderly, and my personal favorite, the mentally ill.  I am amazed that the author (who has a PhD, you know) wasn't smart enough to upholster her arguments in better-smelling cloth.  I myself am an ardent liberal, and agree with most of her conclusions.  But my dislike for the author and her approach made me feel defensive even of Sam Walton!
1	1007769600	I'd like to rate this book but I haven't received it.  The website says it was shipped apparently on December 1 but seven days later it hasn't arrived.  I'm worried that it has been lost in the mail.  Let me know that it will arrive!
4	1007424000	Overall, I found this book to be one of the best reads I have had to do for college.  By attempting to grasp what life is like for America's &quot;working poor,&quot;  Barbara Ehrenreich delves into a world that most middle-upper class Americans have not seen before on this level.  Sure, we interact with these people when they serve us our food in a restaurant or check out our purchases at a store, but what little do we know of what goes on in the daily life of these hard working people.  By reading this book, one will get that detailed personal point of view that is so imperative to understand what it is like to slave away at a physically exhausting job for meager wages that barely pay for enough food and rent.  Of course there are practical aspects to keep in mind, such as Barbara's &quot;emergency&quot; fund, the fact that she is supporting only herself and not children as well, and the car that she drives.  On the whole, I would have to say that this book is an interesting read, kept my attention throughout, and provided a collection of knowledge, undestanding, and compassion that I will carry with me for the rest of my life.  If you enjoy reading such first-hand accounts and have a love for humanity, Nickel and Dimed is an excellent choice.
4	1007164800	This book obtained great reviews in the press. After reading itthe reviews seemed appropiate. The author has done a great job ofsummarizing life of the working poor. One could accuse the authorof trivilizing poverty, but do not think that is appropiate. The author did a job as best as she could.
4	1006905600	I am just finishing up this book and I am impressed that the author at least tried to see what it is like to be a member of the working poor.  She acknowledges that she can't truly emulate all of the circumstances that the working poor would encounter, but I give her an &quot;A&quot; for effort in trying to bring the topic out into the public spotlight.
3	1006905600	I can't see how it matters whether Ehrenreich is a liberal, a socialist, a communist, or a Whig. Either she's right about the causes of and solutions to the problem of the working poor, or she isn't. The problem is that her book - an anecdotal narrative hoping to pass itself off as serious analysis - is far too shallow to settle the question one way or the other. However, if she wants to persuade me that American economic mobility is a myth, she's going to have to explain why some people - many of whom face more discrimination for being non-Caucasian than she ever will for being female - do in fact rise into the middle class and beyond. (Are their hard work, thrift, and commitment to education &quot;cheating&quot; somehow?) And if she thinks she has learned what poverty is, she might want to speak to a few of the immigrants who literally risk their lives to come here and work at the jobs she found so demeaning. They might be able to expand her definition of under-nourishment beyond that of eating convenience-store burritos.
5	1006819200	Ms. Ehrenreich has done what many people would fear to do--she participated in her own social research. She wanted to find out how people manage to get by (or don't) in low-wage jobs in the United States. To do this, she spent several months finding and working low wage jobs while living on the budgets those jobs allowed.The story of her experiences in three different cities is very well told, approachable, and (in my view) without significant recrimination at &quot;corporate greed&quot; or &quot;social injustice&quot; in the politically correct, abstract sense. Where she offers critique, it is from personal experience and in specific examples.I live in one of the cities Ms. Ehrenreich tried to get by in. While I realized the difficulty that the shortage of affordable housing in my area causes, this book gave my a much better picture of what a &quot;housing shortage&quot; really means to people trying to live in low wage jobs.I strongly recommend this book.
4	1006732800	I will never look at a Wal Mart Clerk, Housekeeper, or inexpensive restaurant waitress the same way again.  Those of us who are comfortably middle class or above, are truly unaware of the struggles that so many people in our society experience.  Without secure housing and a substantially above minimum wage job, it is truly hard to feel safe and secure.  Ehrenreich's book personalizes this struggle.
5	1006560000	Read NICKEL AND DIMED by Barbara Ehrenreich, the heart-wrenching story of a woman who attempts to live on the meager wages paid for such jobs as folding clothes at Wal-Mart, waitressing, washing dishes in a nursing home, and scrubbing floors . . . it certainly made me aware of the important but underappreciated work done by so many Americans--and the fact that what they are paid is enough not enough to survive.Six or seven dollars per hour just doesn't cut it, especially given the fact that housing costs are rising at a much quicker rate than hourly pay rates . . . so it is not surprising that for many, one job is not enough . . . at least two are needed if indoor living is the desired accommodation.There were many memorable passages; among them:[At a restaurant she worked at] Sinks everywhere are clogged with scraps of lettuce, decomposing lemon wedges, water-logged toast crumbs. Put your hand down on any counter and you risk being stuck to it by the film of ancient syrup spills, and this is unfortunate because hands are utensils here, used for scooping up lettuce onto the salad plates, lifting out pie slices, and even moving hash browns from one plate to another. The regulation poster in the simple unisex rest room admonishes us to wash our hands thoroughly, and even offers instructions for doing so, but there is always some vital substance missing--soap, paper towel, toilet paper--and I never found all three at once. You learn to stuff your pockets with napkins before going in there, and too bad about the customers who must eat, although they don't realize it, almost literally out of our hands.In the office Ted thanks me for my &quot;concern&quot; and says he's taken my advice about Holly and sent her home. But--there has to be a &quot;but&quot;--you know you can't help someone who doesn't want to be helped. I guess it's the mother in me, is my lame response. To which he says, testily, &quot;Well, I'm a parent too, and that doesn't make me less of a person.&quot; Very calmly, I am proud to report, I tell him, &quot;It's supposed to make your more of a person.&quot;As Louis Uchitelle has reported in THE NEW YORK TIMES, many employers will offer almost anything--free meals, subsidized transportation, store discounts--rather than raise wages. The reason for this, in the words of one employer, is that such extras &quot;can be shed more easily&quot; than wage increases when changes in the market seem to make them unnecessary. In the same spirit, automobile manufacturers would rather offer their customer cash rebates than reduced prices; the advantage of the rebate is that it seems like a gift and can be withdrawn without explanation.
4	1006473600	If you spend your time at Harry Winston's, Tiffany &amp; Co. or Cartier, maybe this isn't the book for you; or then again, maybe it is. If you ever eat at chain restaurants, stay in budget motels, use public restrooms or shop at Wal Mart, then read this book for sure. In Nickel and Dimed, author Barbara Ehrenreich leaves her ivory tower existence as a writer in Key West and takes a succession of minimum wage jobs in Florida, Maine and Minnesota to chronicle life from the position of the working poor. She works as a waitress, a maid and a retail clerk. She lives in "affordable" housing - trailers and weekly budget motels; she drives a Rent A Wreck; and she eats dinner at convenience stores. She doesn't do this to see if it's possible, rather she does it to show how millions of proud Americans live every day.  As you read this book you hear the anthem of the working poor in the recesses of your consciousness, "another day older and deeper in debt."The criticism of this book by other reviewers is too harsh.  This is a short book and an easy read filled with humorous episodes. You'll be surprised to learn that someone in corporate America has even gone so far to deem talking to a coworker on the job as "time theft."  Ehrenreich hasn't written the definitive treatise about the working poor; I don't think she ever intended to. Whether you're a supply-sider or a socialist, you can at least agree that she presents her point of view through her writing effectively. When many are talking of bull markets, stock splits and the dot.com revolution, she is unafraid to be the voice talking about the conditions faced by the working poor in the USA: low wages, no housing, no health insurance, no sick time, no benefits, no 401(k), no credit, no phones, no tenure, no vacations - a whole lot of nothing every day. Just show up, do your job and smile for the customers.Whether management reads it; whether business schools require it; or whether parents make their high school age children read it, neither this book nor its topic will go away. Read it if you've forgotten how the other half lives. What's that old expression? You're only a paycheck away from the poor house? Since it's a safe bet that an amazon.com reader probably is a little more affluent than the average bear, leave a little extra for your waitress the next time; you'll be glad you did.
5	1006387200	I am very suprised by all the negative reviews of &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; here!  Has anybody who wrote a review on this site ever actualy had to deal with truly being in a position where they must survive from one of these jobs?  You think she is being &quot;whiny&quot;?  Well let's see how your yuppie butt feels after serving customers much like yourself for 8 hours strait in some diner!First and foremost, everyone who posted a review of this book speaks and writes in an obviously educated way.  People who end up stuck in these jobs can't write this way...they are also very unlikely to be online in the first place, or to have read this book.Even if you are someone who had to work in high school or college, it's not the same- you are treated differently by bosses, co-workers, etc. and you have a bright future to look forward to which colors your existence.  You simply don't grasp the enormity of the hopelessness of these people's lives.  Their parents teach them all the wrong things by example, like it's OK to have kids when you're 15 or 16, or do drugs(their parents probably had THEM at 15).  Most never recieved the proper nutrition in utero and while growing up- their average IQ is 100!  They don't even have the brainpower to understand how to go out and get an education, and have probably never even spoken for 5 minutes in a row to somebody who has.These people don't have the means to explain their experiences to others in a way that can be understood, especialy by hoity-toity yuppies who collect online to bash someone who has actually peered into their dismal world.What you dismiss as &quot;poor choices&quot;, which you think could be easily avoided, is a WAY OF LIFE.  These people who reproduce in thier teens have three generations to the middle and upper class two.  To them, it's NORMAL, and it's how everybody they know lives.  Have you ever lived around these people?And also, show me the person who can live on $250 a week, and I'll show you somebody who either doesn't have to pay rent, is living partialy off of school loans or grants, their parents are able to give them a little money, or SOMETHING.  Because Aint Nobody Living of $250 per week, unless they're some kind of recluse, martyr or other odd personality type.  Not around here.  Attempting to do so is setting yourself up for a disaster.And that thing about shared housing?  YOU try being the one renting the room from the person holding the lease.  That is one misarable way to live.  Unless, of course, you are all yuppie kids doing a &quot;share&quot; situation while going to school, it's all of your first experiences with sharing, and the insidious habits of habitual sharers have not set in yet.  Shares do not work for women in most cases because both male and female leaseholders have a way of taking out all their horrible personality traits on the person renting the room.  Women are in an especialy vulnerable position if the leaseholder is a man, because her private life and belongings are constantly observable.  If there is a room available, you can be sure that none of the person's friends considered them a person who can be lived with. Anyone who has been sharing for more than 2 or 3 years is probably incapable in some way of forming a family and has social problems, and is a horrific person to live with.  Ocasionaly there are exceptions, but for the most part I have found that if there is a room available, there is something wrong.  Also, when you have no lease, there is no guarantee that you can stay in the room, making you vulnerable to the whims and fluctuations of the leaseholders life.  It is no way to have a liveable existance.There is an old saying...before you judge someone, try walking a mile in thier shoes.
4	1006214400	The myth that hard work will bring success is very ingrained in Americans. It is used to allay our guilt about widespread poverty in our country. That myth is challenged by Barbara Ehrenreich in this excellent read.
2	1005868800	To see what conditions were like for women re-entering the workforce after years on welfare, the author went undercover as a divorcee with no job skills and worked menial jobs trying to make rent.  It was a great idea, and I was interested in her findings.  But they were presented in such a whiny, negative way that the only thing I was sure about was that I never wanted to employ Barbara Ehrenreich.The first thing she tried was waitressing, an honest profession and one that probably half of all Americans have done at one time or another.  Her feet hurt, her back hurt, she couldn't keep up, her coworkers were mean to her, the customers didn't treat her like a real person.  She walked off the job in the middle of a busy day with no notice, in fact, she didn't even tell anyone that she had left.  On to housekeeping, which was much the same.  And finally, when she worked at Walmart, she was downright rude to customers and coworkers.I would have liked to have seen more numbers.  For example, it would have been nice to know what the author considered &quot;necessities&quot; to spend money on.  I had a hard time understanding why, when she was making $250/week, she had to take a second job to make rent on a $120/week hotel room (utilities included).  More documentation and figures might have made me more sympathetic.  It also would have been nice to simulate caring for a child on a low income; I had trouble understanding why a single person with no other responsibilities couldn't live cheap.I didn't think this book fairly portrayed the lives of the working poor.  Like many readers, I spend several years working two part-time jobs at minimum wage with no benefits.  Somehow I managed to make ends meet without without becoming whiny and bitter.  I also never adopted an &quot;us against them&quot; mentality pitting myself against my &quot;wealthy&quot; customers, and I seldom saw this kind of bad attitude displayed by my fellow poverty-ridden coworkers.  A person's attitude is different when they don't have the luxury of walking off the job and returning to their &quot;real life&quot;.The book was interesting and I finished it.  However, it shouldn't be taken as fact.  To find out about the real lives of the real working poor (the ones who have to be poor for more than a month at a time), talk to your own neighborhood fast-food worker, waitress, or Walmart associate.
3	1005868800	How do people get by on minimum wage?  They sure don't shop here!Barbara Ehrenreich's book does document a total submersion study of her explorations into poverty.  For even trying she should be commended.  Still this is an insulated point of view for an insulated audience.  Want to know what it's like to be poor?  Read this book and dream on.At best this book documents the bad choices women in poverty can take, like working for Wal-Mart instead of risking venturing into the non-traditional hardware plumbing department at higher wages.  It's like her idea of poverty meals was fast food.  (She admits the idea was formulated over a $30 dinner.)  At best it simulates the leading edge of a fall from grace.  The initial start of the learning curve.Her conclusion?  Unions for all.  Okay, maybe so.  She didn't have to stick around to follow through and those that would benefit aren't reading this book.
1	1005436800	We all need to be reminded often that the folks who serve us and clean up after us and check us out have lives that deserve our concern and, often, our respect. Barbara Ehrenreich's book tells us something of the lives of a number of women and men who live near the bottom of America's economic scale.Unfortunately, Ms. Ehrenreich too often employs gossip, rumor, guesses and suspicion rather than fact or analysis to explore her subject. She quotes gossip (her word) that Stu, a manager she dislikes, is involved in drugs, and offers that, "I'm ready to believe anything bad about Stu." Later, she relates "the most up-to-date RUMORS (emphasis mine)" that "the drug Stu ordered was crack and he was caught dipping in the cash register to pay for it." Yet when another employee is fired for stealing, her response is, "my GUESS (emphasis mine) is that he had taken...some Saltines or a can of cherry pie mix and that the motive for taking it was hunger."Despite her glee that Stu might have been caught with drugs, Ms. Ehrenreich hates drug testing. "I SUSPECT (emphasis mine) that the demeaning effect of testing also may hold some attraction for employers." And again, "My GUESS (emphasis mine) is that the indignities imposed on so many low wage workers--the drug tests, the constant surveillance, being `reamed out' by managers--are part of what keeps wages low."Ms. Ehrenreich's in-depth analysis of people on welfare: "I SUSPECT (emphasis mine) that most welfare recipients already possess (traits deemed essential to job readiness: punctuality, cleanliness, cheerfulness, obedience), or would if their child care and transportation problems were solved."In her last chapter Ms. Ehrenreich attempts an analysis of what she has observed. Among the points she sees as most telling: "In the first quarter of 2000, the poorest 10 percent of workers were earning only 91 percent of what they were earning (in 1973)."Ms. Ehrenreich would like you to believe that the same people who were poor in 1973 are poorer today.But that's simply not true. Only 5.1 percent of those who were in the lowest fifth of the income scale in 1975 remained in the lowest fifth by 1991. Almost a third had advanced to the TOP fifth. The income gain for those who had been in the bottom fifth was $27,745 (in 1997 dollars). Those who had been in the second lowest fifth in 1975 gained $24,195. The middle fifth saw their incomes increase $10,161; those in the two highest fifths of income distribution in 1975 enjoyed gains of $9718 and $4354, respectively.What are Ms. Ehrenreich's solutions? Early on she says we should decrease inequality, not seeming to understand that this is a goal, not a course of action. She advocates an increase in the minimum wage but doesn't mention the overwhelming evidence that this would help some but hurt others by reducing employment opportunities. She advocates more public housing, overlooking the disasters that have been visited on the poor in many such projects.Ms. Ehrenreich wants "generous public services" like those provided in "most civilized nations." By this, I suppose she means places like France, where it is so expensive to hire and fire employees that unemployment has hovered around 10 percent for more than a decade.The author ignores the one cure for the problems she documents: economic growth. Thus, although she notes the 9% increase in income for the lowest earning fifth of families between 1996 and 1999, she says these increases &quot;do not seem so impressive to me.&quot; She doesn't understand that income growth at this rate would double earnings in a generation.Perhaps that would not be fast enough for Ms. Ehrenreich, but economic growth is the only poverty program that's ever worked anywhere. She forgets that growth of 2 percent per year has increased American's earnings by 560 percent in the last century. In 1900 almost everyone was poorer than Ms. Ehrenreich's servers and maids and clerks. Today, few are.In the book's last section, the author gives what I think she would consider to be a fair summary of her experience: "Something is wrong, very wrong, when a single person in good health, a person who in addition possesses a working car, can barely support herself by the sweat of her brow. It doesn't take a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents are too high."I would sum up her story differently: "Something is wrong, very wrong, when a person holds several jobs for a grand total of less than three months; comments continually on the avarice, slovenliness and obesity of her customers; has hardly a good word to say for her employers; leaves all her jobs within a matter of weeks and without bothering to give notice; and then is shocked that one in her position is not well paid."
4	1005091200	This book should be required reading for every student that doesn't value the benefit of getting an education.The common denominator among the people descibed in this book--with the exception of the author--was a lack of education. None of them had any skills that could provide a decent income, and as such were forced to take minimum wage, unskilled jobs.This is what's facing people who don't learn useful trade skills, or stay in school.I found the chapter on Wal-Mart work conditions enlightening, but not really surprising, since that company had previously been found guilty of exploiting overseas labor.The point Ehrenreich makes about the lack of affordable housing is important and true. I live in Los Angeles, where at present home prices, you must have an upper class income to afford buying a home.The current real estate prices here totally prevent any thought of home-buying for middle-class, much less poorer people.Despite all this, however, I'm still in favor of welfare reform, since I've witnessed many people have 6 children when they couldn't realistically afford to raise one, knowing that they have the cushion of welfare to support them. It doesn't help those poor kids, though. One more thing: in my life, I've worked some of the types of jobs described in this book, and I, too, found that the less I got paid, the worse I was treated, and the harder I was expected to work. Those jobs still bring back nightmares, and I have only sympathy for those forced to work such awful jobs.
5	1004918400	I read this book in a single sitting because I could not put it down. Barbara Ehrenreich goes 'undercover' to experience for herself the working, and living conditions that many low-wage workers have to endure.  She notoces first hand how minimum wage (or slightly higher) paying jobs are incapable of sustaining adequate living needs. She also provides an exceptional account why it's so difficult for many people to rise above the lowest income levels despite their best efforts, showing how difficult it is for many of the workers she meets to rise above their income levels.  Ms. ehrenreich , a biologist and writer for prestigious magazines, becomes a waitress, a house cleaner, a cook, and a Wal-Mart clerk - among other jobs and describes these experinces with the appropriate rigor but also with humor. Readers will also enjoy Ehrenreich's fitting sarchasm and spite amidst the sadness. I particularly enjoyed the WalMart chapter full of insight on Sam's brainwashing Big Brother ways. After you read this book you''ll become far more conscious of what the person behind the counter, your waitress or your maid are really feeling when they smile and accept your order.
4	1004313600	Welfare has been reformed.  No longer will deadbeats feed comfortably at the public trough.  Now they have to get a job.  Poverty has been beaten.  Or has it?  This is the question posed by Barbara Ehrenreich, a female, fiftyish writer who also has a Ph.D. in biology.  To look for an answer, Ehrenreich went undercover and lived for several months as someone trying to find and hold a minimum wage job and live on her income.  She relates her experience in Nickel and Dimed.Ehrenreich's biases show clearly in her narrative.  She acknowledges up front that she was a semi-radical student in the sixties, that her husband was a Teamsters' organizer, and that her father and uncles worked in the mines and on the railroads.  She is definitely not pro management or a conservative Republican.  However, her experience makes a strong case for the need for a safety net for people who working on the low end of the economic food chain.She starts her experiment near her Key West, Florida home.  She goes into the community with a start-up bankroll and a &quot;rent-a-wreck&quot; for transportation.  She soon finds that housing is the big problem.  It is expensive-easily taking up more than half of the gross pay from a minimum wage job.  Without the capital reserve to make the sizable deposit required for an apartment, she is forced into motels or trailer parks that rent by the week.  And all of these types of places are miles and miles from where the jobs are.  She also finds that although there are lots of help wanted ads, she is invariably steered toward waitressing.  She tries this for a month, and quickly finds that she cannot make it on one job alone.  She will have to work two jobs just to have a hovel to sleep in and junk food to eat.Moving on the Portland, Maine, Ehrenreich finds more of the same.  Here she is steered toward housekeeping jobs, and discovers that many businesses keep the help wanted ads going even when they don't have any jobs to offer.  They do, however, expect that their high turnover will create vacancies soon.  What they are doing is keeping a reserve of prospective employees on tap.  After Portland, she finishes her experiment in the Twin Cities of Minnesota.  Here she finds that housing, a problem elsewhere, is nearly insurmountable.  She turns down a job with a building supply place to work at Wal~Mart.  As the pressures mount and increasingly she is not getting by, she even starts a little union organizing campaign; but it doesn't get anywhere before she returns to Key West to write her book.Although Ehrenreich's biases clearly show (she never met a manager she didn't dislike), she does demonstrate a clear problem in our society and raises valid questions that our society needs to answer.  She is unable to make it working at minimum wage, and she starts each new experiment with a bankroll and a car.  People who work for minimum wage stay below the poverty level.  And the official definition of poverty is based on food costs, while housing has become a larger and larger problem.  Drug tests are an especial problem for Ehrenreich.  She disapproves on principle; she cites evidence that they are ineffective and beneficial only to the testing companies; and particularly notes that test sites are far removed from work areas and living areas, making getting the test another sometimes insurmountable hurdle.
4	1004313600	The novel Nickel and Dimed tells the true story of the &quot;working poor&quot;. Barbara Ehrenreich, an investigative journalist joined the millions of Americans &quot;who work full time, year round, for poverty level wages.&quot; She was constantly surrounded by the "nobodies" of society. She experienced their every day life. She learned what it was like to be looked down upon and to have people assume things about you because of your social status. "The problem of rents is easy for a noneconomist, even a sparsely educated low-wage worker, to grasp it's the market, stupid. When the rich and the poor compete for housing on the open market, the poor don't stand a chance."(199). Barbara Ehrenreich was surrounded by people who were looked down upon because they had nowhere to live except for either their vans or low income housing. But what right does society have to look down on them when they are competing against the rich simply for a place to live. Nickel and Dimed took the reader to a place that is rarely seen in society or even spoken of.  It takes us to another society, the society of the poor. It is uncommonly seen because the poor is a society kept confidential and for the poor to speak up would be an alteration that they are frightened of making. "Someday, of course--- and I will make no predictions as to exactly when--- they are bound to tire of getting so little in return and demand to be paid what they're worth.... But the sky will not fall, and we will all be better off for it in the end."(221).This book teaches many valuable life lessons. It teaches the reader not to judge workers at minimum wage jobs. Their status does not mean that they are unqualified or uneducated. They could be highly educated people that had a string of bad luck. I believe that I could relate to the book because of the realistic approach that the author took in writing it. I liked this book because it showed how life is really like in the poorer communities of our country and how our society tends to ignore it. I thought that Barbara Ehrenreich was a great author because she tackled the obstacles that came her way when she was a part of the "working poor" with a sense of intelligence and cleverness. The book mesmerized me and proved all those who thought that people on welfare just chose to be that way, when in reality it is apparent that the wages are too low and the rents are too high for the "working poor to survive".Barbara Eherenreich presents new insights about our economy and society. She explores the social class known as the "working poor", who many in society tend to ignore.  Society looked down on this class when they depended on the government for their "handouts" but now that these people are out in the workforce they have nowhere else to apply but the lowest waged jobs. But they are working at least aren't they? Is that not what society wanted? Yet we have to think to ourselves these people are not making enough to survive and without government handouts what are these people to do? Barbara Eherenreich tackles these problems and shows society that we have a new problem at hand, ignorance. Society chooses to ignore these problems when it is one of our biggest. They way that she enters the workforce and presents the problems that are present is amazing and because of that I enjoyed the book to the greatest extent. I believe that is if society chooses to face this problem we can grow as an economy. "A lot of what we experience as strength comes from knowing what to do with weakness."(195).
2	1003708800	As a part-timer who lives comfotably (with self-paid health insurance and sattelite-dish television) off less money than even a minimum-wage full-timer, I was curious when I heard of this book.  Nickel and Dimed is the story of a social critic with no family to support who sets out to live off low wage work in three different US cities (for about a month each) as a &quot;scientific experiment&quot; to determine whether she can make ends meet and comes to the conclusion that it can't be done.  It seems this was her foregone conclusion all along.  Ehrenreich provides no accounting for her finaces during her &quot;experiment&quot; which makes the book difficult to analyze from a finacial perspective, but the information she gives provides some clues to what happens.Her housing costs are frequently exhorbitant.  She spends much of her time in relatively high-cost transient housing and in one city, despite a promise to live in the cheapest available housing, she rejects a housing situation similar in price and style to mine (shared kitchen and bath) and takes a place that costs close to twice as much.  Her other costs are also high combined to mine, but it's not easy to tell why with inccmplete information.What the book does provide is an account of high-class culture shock upon entering the lower classes - and a well written one at that - but readers should be skeptical of her conclusions - there are many of us (especially singles) doing fine on low wages.
5	1003622400	Barbara Ehrenreich begins with the premise that the U.S. has a large underclass that hasn't benefitted from the recent long term economic growth.  Her apparent goal was to show the indiginities and the obstacles facing people who live in poverty--for it seems that many don't believe poverty is so bad, or, that such people only need pull themselves up by the bootstraps to improve their lot.  Overall, she is successful in doing what she set out to do.  The book clearly illustrates the problems ordinary people face in everyday life. This is very easy to read, and short.  I disagree with those reviewers who find flaw in her methods; this is a journalistic piece, not a scientific study--and it works on that level.  I also disagree with those who criticize her for being condescending or for not being &quot;poor&quot; enough.  I found neither.  It took some courage for her to do what she did; the one thing I don't think she adequately explains is why she underwent this experience.  But it was worthwhile--at least for the reader.  I'll be a bit more conscious now whenever I walk into a Wal Mart or stay at a motel.
3	1003536000	Unfortunately, Ms. Ehrenreich is no George Orwell.  His Down and Out in Paris and London was a deeply sympathetic and brilliantly realized journey into the life of the working poor.  The very important difference (apart from the fact that Orwell was an immensely more gifted writer than she) is that Orwell really was down and out when he wrote his book, not just pretending to be.  And, despite the fact that he was one of the seminal authors of the twentieth century, he remained poor almost to he end of his life.  Ms. Ehrenreich, as she reminds us again and again, is an upper middle class type, one the those ladies who lunches with editors.  And, mind you, has a PhD, too. I got the sense that her oft-repeated status was hard won and of fairly recent vintage.  Perhaps that's why the need to constantly re-state her separateness from the unfortunates she writes about.The lives of shamefully exploited workers is a subject worthy of deep and thoughtful analysis.  There are no quick dilettanish solutions to so complex a subject.  And this book has a quick shallow feel about it.  The last two chapters--no doubt tacked on in an attempt to lend some scholarly credence--are listless harangues for yet more of the same failed government imposed socio-economic policies of the late 20th century, policies of such deliberate evil (in the guise of benign do-gooding) they have resulted in the wage stagnation workers today are forced to live with.  Ms. Ehrenreich herself states that workers now earn little more than they did in 1973.  The question which is neveranswered truthfully or even addressed is why.Nickel and Dimed is little more than simple-minded melodramatic muckraking, which pits various groups against each other, solves nothing and further exploits the very people it claims to be defending.  Read it and see for yourself.
5	1003449600	The novel Nickel and Dimed provides a spectacular comprehensive analysis of the lower class, blue collar world that so many of us spend our lives trying to turn away from.  After anyone is finished reading Barbra Ehernreich's masterpiece, you will never feel the same about leaving meager tips, eating in bed just because you're in a hotel or re-shuffling the clothesrack at your local retailer.  Although clever and fun to read, the facts that line the pages are interesting as well.  One will thank their religious beleifs after the book is through as it offers insight to the utter ignorance of the upper class toward their fellow man.  At the turn of every page, you will be left thinking, &quot;that's true&quot;, of course reffering to the numerous facts and stories pumped into the novel (which I really like to think of as a guide).  The conversational tone in which Ehernreich sets the book works well too, as it makes it seem as though the reader was interviewing the author, hence putting one in the position of every job guru looking for perspective workers.  Nickel and Dimed is filled with charming laughs as well as a very serious message about those who barely make ends meet.  Truly a five star piece and one that should be enjoyed by all.
4	1003276800	For the sake of research, albeit empirical, Barbara Ehrenreich leaves her comfortable writer's life near Key West, Florida, and goes undercover as a waitress, a motel maid, a residential cleaning woman, a nursing home dietician and a Wal-Mart clerk.Living alone with no children or other dependents, Ehrenreich attempts to make ends meet in three different communities in Florida, Maine and Minnesota. She failed--miserably. Even for a family of one, minimum wage just doesn't bring home the bacon in 21st century America.Apart from the econonomic experiment, I found the antecdotes of her work experiences quite fascinating. Following her new careers was like being the proverbial fly on the wall.If you think of America's working poor in stereotypical fashion, Nickel and Dimed will disabuse you of many falsehoods.Don't think it's all grim reading, however. You'll discover a number of stories to howl over. Enjoy the read. Let it enlighten you and enlarge your understanding of a segment of American society that should not be ignored.
1	1002844800	I would not recommend this book to anyone. She was oddly condescending to the people she worked with and her research methods were sloppy. She made the book sound like it was this scientific experiment but it wasn't. For those of you who are not familiar with the book, she goes undercover to work in low-wage jobs to see if anyone can really live on it. She only works in the jobs for a month so you wonder how much she really learned and she always had the option of leaving and returning to her &quot;real life&quot; which, none of these other women she worked along sides did.It was poorly written too, for someone who boasts that she writes for the New York Times occasionally.
3	1002758400	I read this book hoping to learn more about this epidemic of the working poor, but did not come out enlightened.  It was interesting to read the author's actual experiences living the way millions of Americans live.  However, her experience was biased and just a sampling of what it is really like.  The author did not have to go &quot;undercover&quot; to tell us that it really stinks to live this way.  Her evalution was poor on the fact that, again, did not give the reader much more to ponder.  She did give us some numbers to support her obvious claims, but I was disappointed with this aspect of the book.If you are not looking for an in-depth investagative piece on this topic, then you will enjoy it for what it is worth: a bunch of little stories about working minimun wage jobs.
4	1002672000	Ehrenreich has never disappointed me; but I feel this book, though very good, could have been better.For one thing, I found myself wanting to know more about the  personal circumstances of her co-workers.  Very few talked about their dreams or aspirations - certainly nobody mentioned a 'dream job'. I would have liked to hear more about what people consider their options (especially in light of all the books exhorting us to 'chase our dreams' and &quot;find the perfect job&quot;).What I found most interesting, apart from the hard (in both senses of the word) economic facts, was the attitude of the workers toward their jobs: why they don't unionise, why in a tight labour market people can feel beholden to their miserly employers. Though I wanted, again, to know more, I think Ehrenreich did fill in quite a bit of detail on the insulting procedures and general hassle that poor people endure if they wish to improve their circumstances, either via a new job or  via social services.I also wanted to know more about &quot;the big picture&quot;, including the employers. It would have been useful, for instance, to know how much Wal-Mart pays its middle staff and top executives.The book was certainly very honest - Ehrenreich did not edit out some of the reactions which I'm sure she knows don't show her in a good light. Like the fact that as a PH D - she mentions her title more than once - she expected to do very well (better than the uneducated poor, is the implication) in everything. But her pride in doing well in her unexpectedly challenging jobs is rather touching....
3	1002672000	In Nickel and Dimed,  Barbara Ehrenreich tells the story of several months that she spent trying to enter the work force as an unskilled middle-aged woman who had been a homemaker. I was very interested in this book when I first heard about it, but the book itself was disappointing. Ehreneich found that she couldn't survive on the wages that she was paid without sinking to places such as homeless shelters for awhile, and gave up the experiment. I felt that there was sort of a patronizing attitude about the whole book-- a well-educated white woman goes and pretends to be poor for awhile, then comes back and tells us all about how awful it was.I can't imagine why this book's findings, that low paid jobs are physically demanding, boring, and offer little in the way of job advancement, would be surprising to anyone who's not blind, but perhaps most people who read books like this haven't had low wage jobs while growing up. I was also surprised at how savagely certain groups are treated-- fat people, school teachers, people who pay household workers are all attacked for various reasons. The only folks who seem to be ok are some members of the working poor. Everyone else is seen as worthy of scorn.It doesn't take long to read the book. It's not particularly intellectually challenging, but there are still a lot of other books out there that I think are more worthy of your time.
4	1002067200	A book like this has been depserately needed to counter those who have smugly stated that poverty no longer exists in America, or that the economic boom of the Nineties meant prosperity for all. Ehrenreich's muckraking work of going undercover in various lowpaying jobs (a waitress in Key West, a cleaning woman in Portland, Maine, and a Wal-Mart worker in Minneapolis) shows the misery of low paying work and how impossible it is to live decently at minimum wages. There's a breeziness to the book that is often very funny (her anger at the smug and wealthy houseowners she cleans for in maine is hilarious), but sometimes the breathless prose seems to go by so quickly that the book doesn't take enough time to stop and breathe and make its important points.
5	1001721600	Ms. Ehrenreich opened my eyes and broke my heart.  Her report is not only insightful, but entertaining. The writing is wonderful: filled with humor and a lot of sarcasm. In the end, though, she will lift your respect for humanity, and perhaps your opinion of the "working class".  You will never look at  cleaning franchises the same way. Be prepared to become a better tipper, and maybe an activist for low-income housing.
5	1001635200	I greatly enjoyed B.Ehrenreich's "Nickel and dimed.":  5 stars, 4 for the book, and 1 for actually  joining America's "working poor" by working as a maid, a waitress, for Wal-Mart, etc. and being (mostly) successful at it. If you want to know what that world is like, buy two copies, and give one to a friend.It took me a while to understand what troubled me about the book.  Of couse, it is part a report of personal experience, part reportage or journalism, and part social or sociological commentary.  Politics intervene.  This is a hard to mix to bring off with panache, and some readers may object to the footnotes and ideological underpinnings.  However, upon reflection, I felt  B. E. handled this aspect honourably.  My mind then turned to others who have assumed alternative identities or donned disguises in order to experience, first hand, what it is like to belong to, or live as, some member of a less priviledged class.  (Going "up" is unfortunately very difficult to puill off..).  I remembered "Black like me" by J. H. Griffin (a white man who painted himself black more than 40 years ago), and most particularly a book in French by a Turkish journalist who posed as an illegal immigrant trying to enter Switzerland.  The situations are of course very different to the one E. B. put herself in.  Nevertheless,  the two other books mentioned are more informative, more interesting and illuminate our human condition and the world we live in better.  Both books can be read as a homage to the group the authors entered.  B. E. remains throughout a part time visitor with a journalistic view point - heartfelt participation or identification are not on the agenda, and so the real horror -- as well, no doubt, as the comradeship, comedy, fun, etc. --  of living in this world are not well portrayed.  It follows that her analysis falls a bit flat and genuine understanding (whatever that is!) doesn't emerge.  But as B. E. explicitly admits the limitations of her approach, 5 stars.
3	1001635200	Barbara Ehrenreich makes an interesting journey in the heartland of America.  She spent three months playing a disposable hero for small wages.  At first glance it seems horrific that anyone should be forced into such circumstances.In fact there are many many options.  From roomates (reduces rent), a technique I used during college to social services (churches) can help alleviate some of these problems.  For people who seemed doomed to live in the lower class there is one radical solution that would have never occurred to Barbara Ehrenreich and most of the other Amazon.com reviewers: Enlist in the military.  At worst (single with no dependants) they will receive a place to live (at most bases somewhat simular to a dorm room), about 10/hr and the chance to get some decent skills and maybe some educution.  Yes there is a downside to this option but the benfits both materially and morally far outweight the problems.  Still, this would be too radical of an idea for Barbara Enrenreich ilk.  (Besides, she would have to give up her drugs).
4	1000684800	Read &quot;Nickel and Dimed.&quot;  Take it to Wal-Mart.  &quot;Forget&quot; it in the employees' break room.  Barbara Ehrenreich's book inspires just such outrage and activism.  We might understand a Mom-and-Pop store paying a legal wage that is still too low for a decent life.  Cash flow is tight.  But stores like Wal-Mart, and in particular Wal-Mart, have such a huge cash flow that they could afford to raise their prices, pay a living wage to their employees, and STILL make huge profits.  Criticize Ehrenreich's methods if you must (and they invite some criticsm), but the basic fact is that she was, for all intents and purposes, a full-time employee of chain businesses that, taken together, dominate the US economy.  If ever there was a case for government regulation of chain businesses, this is it.  What else is there for it?  We could stop patronizing chain restaurants, which in my overweight state wouldn't be a bad idea. But then underpaid folks would have no jobs at all.  We could double our tips, which my wife and I have begun to do.  But tips are divided among all of the workers in a given place.  We could TRY not to patronize Wal-Mart, but it's the only game in our town of 15,000 souls.  When it came in, two other long-standing Iowa businesses closed.  The nearest Target is 35 miles away.  Nope, I'm writing a letter to my Congressman, if he can stop rattling sabers at imaginary enemies long enough to care about ordinary people.  In the meantime, where did I put that copy of her book?
3	1000512000	&quot;I have stood ten hours. I have washed and filled seven hundred jars. My pay is seventy cents.....I have become, in desperate reality, a factory girl, alone and friendless. I am earning $4:00 a week and spending three quarters of that on rent. I dread not being strong enough to keep my job...&quot;This is from an article by a female journalist of the early twentieth century who, without benefit of credit or a car, did the same as Barbara Ehrenreich; that is survived as a low wage worker.Accounts of muckraking journalism are nothing new. Barbara Ehrenreich is, however, the first person to try to subsist in the lower strata of the wage scale for years. I wish that she had been more honest in her attempt and did without the buffers which prevented her from really knowing what life at the bottom of the economic ladder is like. Because she had a number of back-up resources she could do things like walk out on a job when things got too tough, not show up at another job because she was too tired to go to work, and encourage her fellow nonunionized maids to go on strike when one of tbeir number was injured, thereby risking their jobs. As a low wage worker I wish that I had such options when things get rough on the job. Over the last dozen years I have worked a series of jobs, the average wages of which total less than eight dollars an hour. In some ways I am more fortunate than Barbara's coworkers since I own a house (an inherited four room cottage needing more repairs and TLC than I can afford to give it.) I know I am lucky when I read the local real estate ads and learn that a one bedroom winter rental averages $900 dollars a month ( first, last and security required: no pets or smoking). Summer rentals can climb to more than two grand a month.( And several reviewers thought $675 a month was bad for a year-rounder!) I might own a house, but I'm still badly off. Over the years grander homes than mine have multiplied on my street and property taxes are based on the overall value of the houses in a neighborhood. I pay three grand a year in property taxes. I don't have a working furnace and get through the winter with electric space heaters.I make too much to qualify for any kind of assistance. My property taxes and electric bill combined equal or exceed some peoples' rents. Food is a major expense.Aside from unavoidables like socks and underwear I haven't bought new clothes in years. Fixing the furnace is an impossible dream. The temperature in my house drops to the low fifties during a cold snap. I drive a rusty seventeen year old car.Though boasting of her health and strength, Ms Ehrenriech seems beaten down by some of her jobs. She is too embarassed to go shopping in her maid's uniform, either because of the garish colors of same, or because she feels she is too disgusting in her post work condition to be seen in public. She was sweaty, no big deal. I've worked some factory jobs ( a form of labor Ms Ehrenriech escaped) that were filthy. For REAL embarrassment she should try grocery shopping after spending eight+ hours mixing dyes in a candle factory with no protective clothing, or working in a potato chip factory at an average temperature of a hundred and twenty degrees with three hundred degree oil splashing on you. I've endured both and gone shopping afterwards. Nobody ever commented on my dirty clothes, but if they had my answer would have been, &quot;Screw you, I'm paying my way.&quot; The reason I took those jobs in the first place is that they paid more than other, cleaner jobs (Nine or ten dollars an hour as opposed to five or six. Those &quot;dirty&quot; jobs often required weekend work and massive overtime, but they enabled me to save a bit and even buy a few luxuries like Christmas presents.Barbara Ehrenriech spouts socialist retoric, but she never tries to get to know her coworkers. Once she learns their housing situations and if they eat a healthy lunch, she is done with them. To her they are statistics, not people, or, heaven forbid, potential friends. Throughout the book her sense of supriority shines through.
4	1000512000	&#65533;Nickle and Dimed&#65533; looks at the results &#65533; for millions of Americans &#65533; of some of this country&#65533;s harsher values (i.e., unfettered capitalism, &#65533;rugged individualism,&#65533; low taxes, getting people off &#65533;the dole,&#65533; the belief that if you just work hard enough you can make it, and that if you haven&#65533;t made it, you must be lazy or shiftless or something, etc.). It's an engrossing book for the most part, well written, angry, and &quot;in your face.&quot; It's also largely anecdotal, which limits its value to an extent, and not totally authentic, as the author doesn't &quot;really&quot; become part of the working class, but just gets a glimpse of it for a few months. Still, even knowing that Barbara Ehrenreich &quot;cheated&quot; a bit (by providing herself with a car and start-up money, for instance), and also knowing that she could have said &quot;game over&quot; whenever she wanted to, it still took some guts, or at least good, old-fashioned, investigative journalism, to do what she did. And she should be commended for her efforts.Basically, &#65533;Nickle and Dimed&#65533; gives us a small, but valuable, glimpse into the dark side of America, at least from a non-rightwing viewpoint (maybe the America described by Barbara Ehrenreich is what the Tom DeLays, Dick Armeys, and Dick Cheneys of the world want?). A side of America where people making MORE than the minimum wage, and even working more than one job, can&#65533;t make ends meet. A side of America where health care is a luxury, not a basic human right. Where getting off your feet for a minute, or talking with a co-worker, is looked at as something called &#65533;time theft,&#65533; a phrase that sounds like it came straight out of Orwell&#65533;s &#65533;1984.&#65533; A side of America where one forfeits most of one&#65533;s rights (to free speech, free assembly, freedom from unwarranted search and seizure, and more) when one becomes an &#65533;employee,&#65533; of WalMart or whomever. Where workers can&#65533;t afford to live near their places of employment, and public transportation is utterly inadequate. Where millions of people are one injury, illness, or mishap from disaster. And, possibly worst of all, where the vast majority of Americans don&#65533;t seem to CARE, as long as they get their houses cleaned, their fast food served, and their clothes and toys produced and sold to them at low prices, with a minimum of hassle and government regulation, and by people whose true condition is kept out of sight and out of mind. Barbara Ehrenreich does us all a service by shining a spotlight, and focusing are minds, on the dark side of the American dream. Hopefully, as we all pull together as a nation after the tragic terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, we won&#65533;t forget the millions of Americans who struggle every day just to keep their heads above water.
5	1000080000	Those who follow the writings of Barbara Ehrenreich will need little convincing to give her most recent work &quot;Nickel and Dimed: On (not) Getting by in America&quot;, a read.  Those unfamiliar with her work should prepare themselves for a sensitive yet brutally realistic look at the incredible obstacles involved in the climb out of poverty, &quot;welfare reform&quot; (as we know it) notwithstanding.Educated as a biologist but better known for her socio-political writings, Ehrenreich embarks on a year-plus long plunge into the world of the working class with the intent of evaluating just exactly how feasable it is in financial terms to subsist on wages earned from unskilled labor.  What I found most intriguing, however (and I feel most important) is Ehrenreich's ability to articulate the emotional aspects of service work and poverty that increase the burden for those striving to survive.  These subtlties are not among factors considered by legislators who form policies regarding welfare reform.  As a former service worker (I still bus tables for a banquet hall on weekends as I complete my dietetics internship) and social worker who has worked with employment re-entry programs, I am utterly amazed at how on-target Ms. Ehrenreich is with her observations.  Unfortunately, those who may tend to read this work are not the ones who need to (see:  Preaching to the Choir).  I'd love to see someone sponsor a distribution of this book to: anyone who voted Republican in the last twenty years, CEO's of ANY corporation, or anyone who believes that anyone can &quot;pull themselves up by the bootstraps if they just put their mind to it&quot;.  For a real live look at life in the working-class lane, DO read this book.  And then pass it on to someone that you know thinks differently about welfare reform.
5	999993600	Ms. Ehrenreich's book perfectly captures the desperation and hopelessness that pervades the lives of the tens of millions of America's working poor.  I should know, because I am one of them.  Her attempt to live the life of undereducated mother with no funds and no job skills just returning to the work force is imperfect, of course.  She could always go back to her middle class existence if things got too uncomfortable (which is exactly what she did).  But her eloquence and humor is attempting to give the reader insight into the lives of america's working poor succeeds impressively.  Ms. Ehrenreich's compassion for her coworkers and disgust at what corporate America has rendered in the post-modern, anti-union corporate monstrosity that we call The United States should be required reading for anyone who believes that hard work and hard work alone will provide the American Dream; ie a good home, a full fridge, and two cars.  This is just NOT SO!  Shame on corporate America for turning their collective backs on their workforce.
4	999907200	Writer Barbara Ehrenreich (&quot;The Hearts of Men,&quot; &quot;The Worst Years of Our Lives,&quot; etc.) a couple of years ago decided to leave her middle class background for a few months and find out first hand what life is like for &quot;the other America,&quot; i.e., the working poor. What she reports in &quot;Nickle and Dimed&quot; is depressing but not at all surprising or new, especially if the reader has or is working in low-paid work. Ehrenreich began her low wage odyssey in Florida, then to Maine, and finally in Minnesota. She worked at a variety of jobs, including waitress, cleaning worker, nursing home employee, and Wal-Mart salesperson. She, like anybody else who is sole supporting and working for substandard wages, found that she had to work two jobs just to survive. She found in addition to being tired all the time, she was treated with virtually no respect by her employers. Her experiences will sometimes make the reader laugh, but more likely make the reader angry that the workers who make our economy work by doing the back-breaking labor get treated like dirt.Fortunately for Ehrenreich, at the end of her odyssey she went back to her comfortable lifestyle. Unfortunately for us, we have no idea whatever became of the people she met along the way, those who do not possess a Ph.D. like Ehrenreich and are destined to spend the remainder of their working lives in the substandard wage economy. The fact that Ehrenreich isn't truly a member of the working poor is the major problem with this otherwise excellent, well-written book. This reviewer believes the book would have been much better had the author spent time actually interviewing people who do this work day in and day out, year after year and then shared their stories.Such a book about low-wage workers, especially women workers in traditionally female occupations, has been written before and better some twenty-five years ago by Louise Kapp Howe in her book titled &quot;Pink Collar Workers.&quot; Unlike Ehrenreich, Howe didn't pretend to be one of the subjects but instead got first-hand accounts of those who actually did the work. Ehrenreich should have done the same by interviewing both men and women stuck in the low-wage economy.
4	999820800	Trust the message and not the messenger. Before I cracked the cover, I was curious to discover what motivated Barbara Ehrenreich to undertake this investigation. My initial reaction was to see if I could ascertain the location of the black hole from whence she emerged. Where I live it does not require extraordinary powers of observation or extensive research to determine on average during daylight hours the sky will appear to be blue, and within that atmosphere there exists an underclass living at or below generally accepted poverty standards. Although I still don't know her point of origination, as I got deeper into the book, spurious methodology aside, it became evident her motivations were pure, and for me that was even more depressing. She works from a Marxist model where goods in excess of an individual's needs must be transferred to a central authority which then redistributes the goods to individuals with deficits, a governmental form that directly conflicts with prevailing attitudes.In each of her adventures - I never reached the point where it was possible to forget her near destitution was pretense - she established a set of ground rules affording the most advantageous conditions to success...and she still failed. She is an extremely educated woman; the intrinsic benefits of education will not be sublimated by saying it will be so. She is aware of the value of deferred gratification, she is acquainted with fundamental budgetary principles, she has inculcated experiences that will invariably facilitate reasoned decision-making. Public transportation is not an optional consideration many of the working poor. For all that it mattered, she could have leased a spanking brand SUV if gasoline was to be her only transportation consideration. Seeing a police cruiser brings about a different level of stress when you are riding around on fraying steel belted retreads in a deteriorating un-inspected, unregistered, uninsured, undependable relic. She sought housing with the inestimable comfort of knowing she had the first and last month's rent. I wasn't particularly concerned with her choice to forego roommates, since her limited timeframes in any location would only serve exacerbate another's difficulties when she packed up her notebook and she decided to move on. In any event, shared expenses does not radically change the predicament, such arrangements merely reflect another condition of subsistence conditions. The larger issue was her choice to abstain from integration with her test environment or interact with her coworkers on a meaningful level. She does, however, harbor a perplexing definition of homelessness. By my standards, living out of one's car parked next to your place of employment is a sufficient condition.In fact, Ms. Ehrenreich's ideological convictions tend to obscure the more compelling story. Virtually absent from her story are the very people she sets out to illuminate. A "doctrine of fairness" in relation to socio-economic viability has a jingoistic ring but it fails to account for the gated community mentality that lead to "a contract with America." Sentencing to the oubliette is not invisibility; the movement to eliminate programs targeted to provide assistance to the expansive segments of the population hovering around the poverty level was not based on economic necessity or ethical considerations.If her book serves to raise awareness for a segment of the voting public who may not have been cognizant of the contingencies of reduced social service programs, it has significant value, in spite of the methodology of the messenger.
4	999475200	I wanted to fully recommend this book because I completely agree with the premise that poor people cannot get out of poverty in the USA unless something extraordinary happens. We need affordable housing and a liveable wage for all. Ehrenreich makes the case for this by recounting her stories. I hope people who never see the working poor can read this book and take some actions to assist.I didn't give 5 stars because I disagreed with the personal biases against religion and for smoking that the author espouses.I was dismayed that BE went to a a tent meeting and then used that experience to show what religion does. My church works on justice issues; right now we subsidise a family of a mother and 4 children by providing housing. Jesus can be called a socialist and many people I know feel called to work to help the poor.I teach teenagers and I'm glad that there is drug testing. Many young people are addicted and that limits their choices and starts them on a downward spiral. I learn much from the young people about the culture of poverty and I've worked in it when I was younger but I still don't know how to change our system except as I relate one on one with each student. Read the book for an interesting view of life in the US but be aware that the problems of poverty are not simple.
5	999388800	I thought I &quot;got it.&quot; The 'rich' were the bad guys who wanted far more than their rightful percentage of the goods and services. Ehrenreich demonstrates, through her personal journey, that I, steadfast member of the middle class, am being carried by the millions of minimum-wage, benefit-less workers all around me who make those &quot;bargains&quot; at chain discount stores and restaurants possible. Would I now pay more per product so that people can have medical care and live in safe neighborhoods? Yes, I would.
5	999302400	Ehrenreich doesn't claim to know answers as to how to combat the low-wage problem, but she sure describes her experience in a concise way. Obviously, average low paid workers are not in her position - they have other issues to dwell upon besides shelter and food. However, at the bare bones minimum, she gives it to us like it is - you need to use your imagination to add on kids, child support, drug problems, etc. Go wild and see what you come up with. She does not claim to offer solutions to the issue - as free thinkers, we need to brainstorm new ideas to fight, whether you are a middle class person, or a member of the under class.  Her analysis of labor unions is right on - what has happened to them, anyway? They teeter on the fence if they are worth a damn these days, and on the other side when they aren't. Unions and their legacy of hard struggle for the common worker died many years ago. If anything, this should be a wake up call for loyal unionists everywhere.
4	999043200	I read this surprisingly light-on-its feet little book in two sittings. Though I was often charmed by the author's candor, and even more often delighted by her humor, I must admit I was rarely surprised by her discoveries. Nevertheless, hers was a courageous odyssey by any measure. More important, she draws attention to the elephant in the living room that is poverty in America. Yes, as some reviewers have written, it's an "old story". But so old that it doesn't still need to be told? Forget it. Does it cry out for a new way of telling it? Absolutely, and that's what the author has done, in a vibrant, compelling way. Look, this book's Newsweek review was one of the rare instances when the poor even rated a mention in that magazine. I honestly wonder what people who call this an "old story" were expecting.
4	997574400	The financial page picture of economic life in America is dismal these days, but in a way that strikes me as abstract. The Dow Jones is down, the NASDAQ has crumbled, and IRA investors are nervous. A look at the fine print reveals rising personal debt, and the looming threat of corporate layoffs. In Nickel and Dimed, Barbara Ehrenreich dives right down past those abstractions, into the lives of people who may never be able to retire at all, let alone in Wall-Street-supported comfort.  Ehrenreich went out and applied for jobs in Florida, Maine, and Minnesota. She folded clothes at Wal-Mart, waited tables, washed dish, and cleaned houses, to see what it's like to live on what those jobs pay. No big news, in a sense--it stinks: &quot;What you don't necessarily realize when you start selling your time by the hour is that what you're actually selling is your life.&quot;  Ehrenreich allowed herself a safety net. She always had a car, a place to live, an ATM card. She came with the first month's rent; the experiment was to see if she could legitimately earn another month's rent in the best job (or jobs) that an ordinary person could get. "In addition to being mobile and unencumbered, I am probably in a lot better health than most members of the long-term low-wage workforce. I had everything going for me." But nowhere does the equation work out.  This is a passionate, painful book. It could not have been done as a thought experiment. "There's no way, for example, to pretend to be a waitress: the food either gets to the table or not." Ehrenreich is really exhausted, her knees and back really hurt--and in the end she gets to go home, back across the divide into the world of people who can reach into their wallets to buy this book.  The last chapter of Nickel and Dimed treats the economic nuts and bolts of the experiment. Market rents go up; market wages do not; and the working poor go without lunch to make up the difference. The chapter concludes with a discussion of how the lowest-paid have disappeared from the agenda of American politics and media. Our blindness is our shame.
5	997488000	This book is investigative journalism and doesn't attempt to be a sociological study.  And yes, Ms. Ehrenreich brings her own personality, prejudices, and experiences with her in her forays into low-wage jobs.  However, I think that is an asset, not a detriment to the book.  I think as a society we're often loath to face uncomfortable truths, and the great truth she illustrates for us here is the sheer ugliness of capitalism.  Marx did point it out for us a long way back, but he's not an easy read.  Dickens did too, but the industrial revolution seems a long way away in the 21st century.  Now, anyone with any background in economics can point out that companies need to keep costs down, that a &quot;living wage&quot; would put many small businesses under, the connections between capitalism and freedom, etc., etc.  But sometimes I think we need a harsh look at reality and the indignities and struggles just to have food and shelter that many, many people in this country face on a daily basis.  Ms. Ehrenreich doesn't purport to solve the problems she describes here, but she has done us a great service by making her readers think long and hard about the inequities and injustices in our country.
2	997488000	&quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; is deceptive. On the surface, it is solid social commentary on the fate of the working poor in this country. It is also both well written and edited. The latter is often a rarity these days. &quot;ND&quot; reads quickly and could almost be finished in one sitting. Most any reader can empathize with the struggles of keeping body, soul and all too often, families together on an hourly wage. However, when the smoke clears, one must admit that Ms. Ehrenreich has offered us nothing new. Few Americans, with the possible exception of W, believe that the working poor have it easy or that supporting a family on a Wal- Mart salary is realistic. These folks often lead lives of quiet desparation but their plight is hardly a revelation. The author has shed her light on an old, old story. Furthermore, it is not real! Ehrenreich is a successful author going temporarily undercover! She has an ultimate out and never really will have to struggle-long term-to get by. Also, as another reviewer wrote, 3 cities may have been one too many. By the time Ehrenreich arrives in the Twin Cities, the tale has become a bit repetitive. She had the material to concentrate on Key West and Portland. Ultimately, &quot;ND&quot; is still recommended-especially if one waits for the paperback version. Just because this is an &quot;Old Story&quot; doesn't mean that we can't read about it one more time. This is a very undemanding book. The author deserves some credit. She tackled a serious subject and produced a readable product. (She could have written about the First Family or the British Royals). &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; is worth a try- at paperback prices!!
4	997401600	What I liked so much about this book is that finally someone has uncovered the truth about working in restaurant/retail/housekeeping. Having to work many terrible summer jobs in retail, I noticed the same thing about my co-workers she had observed. They were treated like garbage.Restaurant and retail workers are always getting blamed for everything that goes wrong, whether it's a customer complaint, a refrigerator malfuction or even company bankruptcy. In reality, a bad retail experience is usually due to poor management, corporate cut-backs, etc. Ehrenreich observed this very well.I saw how some of the people I worked with had to live and it was very sad. If they were fired unjustly they would still beg for their job back because they'd be out on the street until they could find a new one and the managers knew it. Ehrenreich knew it too, after working these jobs.She never talks about the younger people, granted their economic situations are usually not the same, but it doesn't mean they are treated any better or deserved the authoritarian rule of the managers. The only thing she says about that is a quote from a ridiculous and obviously un-researched article in the New York Times about how young people would rather work internships. Like most of them even have a choice. Both Ehrenreich and the New York Times reporter don't seem to realize how scarce internships really are and how difficult they are to obtain.It is sometimes hard to comprehend that she herself originated from a working-class background. Without the minimum wage lifestyle, she seems so absorbed in her world of Key West socialites you wonder if most of her life was an attempt to hide that background as much as possible. I would imagine that in Key West the working poor are harder to see than in a place like Brooklyn or Detroit. However, while many people realize there's a problem they, like Ehrenreich, are so absorbed in their elevated status they'd rather pretend it doesn't exist.In any case, I'm glad she wrote this book. It was worth being said and I recommend that anyone who is or has ever worked minimum wage to read it. They need to know they're not alone.
5	997228800	America's culture industry is dominated by educated, relatively affluent folks (mostly Rightist or Centrist politically) who blithely assume that everyone shares their advantaged lifestyle and smug worldview. Ignored by the corporate media, the millions of Americans who toil at minimum wage jobs are largely absent from the nation's public consciousness. Indeed, the status quo depends on cultural amnesia and wholesale denial of America's obscenely skewed class structure in order to maintain itself. That's why a book like Barbara Ehrenreich's NICKLE AND DIMED is so incredibly important. Ehrenreich offers her readers a glimpse of what life is like at the bottom of the socio-economic heap. It's not a pretty picture down there: physically punishing, mind-numbing, soul-destroying work at peon wages under authoritarian management--that's the reality of life for a large segment of the population. When all the self-congratulatory capitalist cheerleading is shoved aside, what we have here is widespread wage slavery. True, Ehrenreich's sojourn amongst the proletariat was brief and, therefore, somewhat dilletantish but at least she tried to get a clue. Can you picture a right-wing pundit like Bret Hume or George Will or Mona Charen having the ethical stamina and intellectual curiosity to examine the lives of the U.S. underclass? Never happen, sir.
3	997228800	I first read of this book in a magazine article and wanted to read it right away.  After finishing the book, I found that it was not what I expected and was rather disappointing.  If you're looking for revelations about the lives of the working poor, don't look here.  Ehrenreich offers nothing that hasn't been said before.  The only people who may be shocked by her conclusions are those who have been locked away in an ivory tower for their entire life.  At points, it seems like Ehrenreich herself has been locked away in said tower - she waxes philosophical about the smallest issues and one wonders how working class the working class background she claims to have really is.  There are also points in the books where it seems that she is no longer looking at the people she works with as people, but as some sort of lesser creature which she must constantly condescend.  The book is a rather quick and easy read, so it may be enjoyed if you go in to it not expecting hardcore social introspection and think of it more as Cultural Studies lite.
2	997056000	I think the premise was a good idea as a whole, but I don't believe Barbara Ehrenreich was the one to present it.She tends to have a victim attitude in life, and a contempt for people who are successful, which I find ironic since I am sure she is not standing on a street corner giving away her profits from the book.She opens fine and the footnotes are somewhat interesting but then she goes off on tangents that have nothing to do with the book.  She claims to have this disdain for others who she feels are elitists but then she turns around and does the same thing herself.  One example, which has no place in this story, in my opinion is when she, as an avid atheist, decided to attend a revival for fun, then not only proceeded to mock the people who went but called Jesus a socialist among other things I would rather not repeat.  My opinion of her formed very quickly from that point.She also points out that management in one of the companies she works for were simply jerks. Granted we all know the types but she didn't even try to see it from a balanced point of view.  The Maid Company she worked for had some hard rules, like no water on the job, etc., which I found to be unreasonable, however she ended up blaming the homeowners, some that she never met.  She had disdain for a Buddhists home who had spiritual messages throughout his house, once again she never met this person, yet felt free to judge.Also a note to Ms. Ehrenreich , not all of us that hire outside help in our homes treat people that way.  We have been blessed (yes blessed!) to have a wonderful housekeeper, landscaper and handyman who comes in quickly. NONE of them are treated like they are any less, we would be lost without them and they know it.Also as far as management is concerned, as a business owner I realize how some people are in this position but there are also two sides to a coin. She mentions how much she dislikes the people she works for with the "rules" yet in the next breath she talks about her and the "maids" in the company car driving through a nice area with the radio blarring and yelling &quot;F*** YOU&quot; out the car window to moms with stollers. When they cringed she mentions how she finds this behavior hysterically funny. Gee and you wonder why they have to set up rules. I wouldn't want her representing my company.The book is not balanced.  Last but not least, she claims so many of these people are in poverty, yet I can't help notice how many of them have no "lunch " money yet have plenty of funds for smoking and having kid after kid.  Just an observation. It's too bad really the subject matter would have been good had it not been so tainted by attitude.I have no doubt there are a great deal of working poor who are making ends meet and having a hard time.  Those are the people she should have sought out.  I believe she was too blinded by her anger or perhaps guilt over her own success to see it clearly.
4	996710400	I picked this up in the new non-fiction section of my library.  The book, especially the first two sections (Key West and Portland) read like a novel.  Not that it was fiction, but it kept my interest that well.  The last trip into the low wage world, Minneapolis, was less engaging.  It seemed to me that by the third experiment, the author was just plain burnt-out.  There was a bit of a logical disconnect in her complaint about having to buy special body flushing substances from GNC at a cost of $30 due to an upcoming drug test; the author made no mention of the cost of the mariajuana and how that factored into her meager budget.In all, a well written and thought provoking trip into a world where, but for the grace of God, any of us might go.
5	996710400	Barbara  Erenreich is, among other things, a talented muckraker and in &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; she rakes enough serious muck to rattle the comfortable cages of those who are ignorant of the existence of the working poor in America today. She does it the hard way; during the height of the economic boom of the '90's she spent three months acquiring and performing menial, &quot;unskilled&quot; service jobs and tries to make ends meet on what she earns. She waits tables in Key West, works for a maid service in Portland, Me. and retails for Wal-Mart in Minneapolis, each for a month. In each community she would find a residence, find a job, keep herself fed and her clothes clean for a month while trying to save enough money for the next month's rent.  Finding the residence is the first obstacle (some of her co-workers are unable to accomplish this). She points out that &quot;If you can't come up with two month's rent...you end up paying through the nose for a room by the week.&quot; Most of her friends live in motel rooms, flophouses, trailers or with roommates and onoe of these arrangements allow anyone to save enough money to eventually improve their living situations.  After a place comes a job. This inevitably involves combing want ads, filling out applications, sitting through mind-numbing interviews, taking useless &quot;opinion surveys&quot; or the &quot;Accucheck test&quot;, then the degrading drug test. (in an aside footnote she cites a 1999 ACLU report that mandatory drug testing accomplishes virtually nothing useful in the workplace).  Once employed, she finds two things constantly interrupting her &quot;dreamy, proletarian idyll&quot;. One is the nature of management. &quot;...I still flinch to think that I spent all those weeks under the surveillence of men...whose job it was to monitor my behavior for signs of sloth, theft, drug abuse or worse&quot;. The other is &quot;that (these jobs) show no signs of being financially viable&quot;. Jobs do come quickly; this is a good thing because Erenreich soon discovers that  she is simply unable to meet the most basic living expenses on one paycheck and has to quickly find another. She points out that &quot;There are no secret ecomonies that nourish the poor: on the contrary there are a host of special costs.&quot; Aside from the outrageous housing-by-the-week expense there are the added costs of eating largely from convenience stores and uninsured medicine (she mentions one Wal-Mart colleague who cannot afford to buy a Wal-Mart shirt on clearance sale).  Erenreich recounts the continuous degradation of working in these settings, and the constant intimidation. The restaurant supervisor seemed particularly dedicated to the notion that the staff must never relax; when, for example, she is caught glancing at a newspaper headline she is told to &quot;vacuum the entire floor with a broken vacuum cleaner&quot;. She describes the frantic, sweat soaked pace of cleaning middle class houses for the maid service while pointing out that the houses never really get clean, rather the service sells &quot;the appearance of being cleaned&quot; (she inserts an amusing aside on the cleaning of toilets). Once, when a co-worker steps into a hole and apparently sprains an ankle she explodes. She tries unsuccessfully to convince her to go to an emergence room and verbally savages her supervisor over the telephone while &quot;Holly is hopping around in the bathroom, wiping up pubic hairs&quot;.  Depressing as this story is it would be even more so if Erenreich didn't relate it in an elegant, witty style with a generous dose of self deprecation. She belittles her own experience, knowing that she will get through this experiment successfully and return to her more familiar life extinguishes much of the urgency and desperation that grows out of this hand-to-mouth type of existence. While in Minneapolis she meets a woman who actually did show up in a strange city with no prospects and nothing but a couple of kids in tow and is open in her admiration. Her experiences are, however, no less real for the admitted contrivance and her assessment is insightful (e.g.&quot;No job is truly unskilled). Personally I believe that this experience should be mandatory for anyone about to enter middle class life but that's probably not going to happen soon. This book is the nearest most people are going to get and I know a few smug neocons who are going to find this under the tree this Christmas.
5	996624000	This short, compelling book recounts the author's three separate one month stints in various low wage jobs (waitress, nursing home attendant, maid, retail clerk) in geographically diverse areas of the U.S. (Key West, Maine, Minneapolis). Her conclusions from each experience are the same--affordable housing is non-existent, the working poor often go hungry, and the entire problem is invisible to mainstream America. Shades of &quot;Fast Food Nation&quot; but the focus is on minimum wage issues only. Very readable and highly recommended.
5	996624000	Nickel and Dimed is a fascinating, engrossing read that sheds light on the dark side of American prosperity.  Barbara Ehrenreich decided to see if she could live for three months as an &quot;unskilled&quot; worker in three different locations, Florida, Maine and Minnesota.  Her experiences are fascinating and engrossing mainly because she did the whole nine yards.  Could she survive at the jobs she could get with no skills, and still be able to find a decent place to live and eat.  The answer is, it's really difficult on all fronts.  The jobs she had were difficult and physically exhausting, but even more difficult were her housing problems, which was something I wasn't expecting, but it's not that surprising if you think about it.  The housing problems also gave way to her eating crisis.  If the one room you live in has no refrigerator, it's very difficult to eat frugally and heathily.  Ehrenreich's experiences are so difficult and you feel her relief when she returns to her &quot;normal&quot; life, but that leaves us with the problem of the rest of the Americans for whom Ehrenreich's experiment is their life.  Her story is engrossing and interesting and told with much warmth and humor.  She reflects on where we go from here at the end of the book (although some of her observations about the difficulty of working could apply to any industry at any income level), which hopefully some Washington policy makers will reflect on.  Nickel and Dimed is an engaging read, an important read.  It does not provide a big sweeping solution to solving the crisis of the low wage working people of America, but what it does is bring the life that crisis, so those who think it does not exist, can no longer deny that something should be done.
5	996537600	Armed with $1000 in start-up funds, a car and her laptop computer cultural critic and essayist, Barbara Ehrenreich sets off on a journey to try to sustain herself as a low-skilled worker for month&#65533;s time. She decides to do some good old-fashioned journalism to find out just how she was going to survive on the wages of the unskilled. (Roughly $6 to $7 an hour) Her travels take her to Florida where as a waitress in Florida, where she is constantly called girl and trailer trash becomes a demographic category to aspire with. In Maine, she ends up working as both a cleaning woman and a nursing home assistant where she must first fill out endless pre-employment tests with trick questions not to help you but to screw you. In Minnesota, she works at Wal-Mart under the repressive surveillance of men and women whose job it is to monitor her behavior for any signs of trouble and even gets to experience the humiliation of Wal-Mart&#65533;s urine test. She eventually discovers behind all those trademark Wal-Mart vests, it turns out, are the borderline homeless of America. Where civil liberties are quite often ignored and hard work fails to live up to its name as the way out of poverty. In her travels she also discovers that no job is truly unskilled, that every job requires exhausting mental and muscular effort. She also learned that one job is not enough; you need at least two if you intend to live indoors. Her narrative is moving, very revealing and makes you laugh if your heart were not so heavy the next time our president says we just created 20 million new jobs. This book is the cold hard reality of those 20 million new jobs.FinancialNeeds.com
5	996537600	I could not put this book down and read it in less than a day. Anyone who believes that the working poor can just &quot;pull themselves up by their bootstraps&quot; should read this book.  That also goes for those who believe the poor are just lazy people who have ignored opportunities to help themselves.The author assumes that she can work her way up in the various jobs she holds as a maid, waitress, sales associate, and care provider.  She discovers that instead these jobs are dominated by harsh, intrusive management types who either treat their employees like dogs or spout corporate slogans.  The highlight of the book for me was her employment experience at Wal-Mart, where she describes her employee orientation in hilarious detail.  As she watches training videos and listens to management hype, she wonders how any employee making $7.00 an hour can be motivated by such garbage.  When she mentions the low pay to another employee, the woman tells the author to hang in there because after a year, she'll be making $7.75 an hour!Sadly, many of the people the author works with during her brief foray into low-wage jobs will never get ahead.  Constrained by back-breaking work and long hours, saving money is next to impossible and getting an education or buying a home is out of reach for these workers.A great read and a life-changing book.
5	996364800	On economic issues (if not necessarily on social issues), I am more or less a card-carrying member of the Republican Party, and what it stands for.  Thus, if you told me that I should read a book that touts the wonders of unionism and strongly advocates the need for a higher minimum wage, I normally would have said thanks, but no thanks.  But I read it based on a friend's recommendation, and can only say that I could not be more impressed by Mr. Ehrenreich's effort.  It is one of the most thought-provoking books I have read in a long time.  Here were some of the things I admired:1.  Her writing ability.  She has a wonderful fluid style that is very easy to read and yet which struck me as much easier described than done.  It had an effortless quality about it, but as one who has to write for a living, it was either not effortless, or else she is simply a talented writer.2.  Her sense of humor.  Surprisingly, there is quite a bit of humor in this book and I found myself laughing out loud quite a few times. Her humor, appropriately, is always directed at her actual or potential employers rather than her co-workers, to whom she shows nothing but compassion and respect.3.  The force of her message.  There was something subtle and understated, or shall we say less than shrill, about the way she presents her case, that merely adds to its impact.  In fact, she almost doesn't present a case at all--she simply lays out her own experiences (together with some footnotes showing national statistics) and lets the reader come to their own conclusion.  This is not to say that I am suddenly wildly pro-union or advocate an immediate increase in the minimum wage to $14.  However, there is no question that what she has to say is serious food for thought, especially as regards the minimum wage.  Indeed, by going in there and getting her hands dirty (literally and figuratively) she presented to me a far stronger case for raising the minimum wage then, say, Ted Kennedy or Barbara Boxer or Dick Gephardt or Maxine Waters and their ilk ever could or did.  As for unions (which is of course not the focus of her book), I have always had mixed feelings.  They always seem like such a better idea in theory than in practice.4.  I thought the footnotes were an excellent addition to the book and helped put into a macro perspective some of the same experiences the author was suffering on a micro perspective.Finally, I don't even necessary disagree with some of the criticisms I have read below.  As but one example, it did seem that she could have made life a bit easier on herself in certain respects, even within the confines of her own parameters which she set for herself.  But despite that, I found this easily to be a 5-star effort and applaud Ms. Ehrenreich for the book.
5	996278400	I adore Barbara Ehrenreich, but I *know* I'm going to have to take a double dose of my anti-hypertensive medication before I delve into any of her books.She makes me angry.  She makes me *rightfully* angry.  I've long served the people she so compassionately depicts in *Nickled and Dimed* - the &quot;Working Poor&quot;.  These are the folks who work their butts off at minimum wage jobs with no benefits.  Forget Health Insurance and a Retirement Plan; workers earning minimum wage are blessed if they can afford to eat AND live indoors.The sad thing is that Ehrenreich HAD to do this to call attention to the folks who clean our houses, serve our food, and smile cheerfully at us in Discount stores.  I challenge my fellow Americans DO THE MATH!  Check out the want ads in your local paper; compare the rent of the cheapest apartment to the monthly wage offered to unskilled workers.Could you live on the difference?  Even better could you raise a family on that?Barbara, you GO, girlfriend!
5	996278400	This book opened my eyes (even though I think they are usually quite wide open).As every good book should, this book has changed the way that I see the world.  Even though when I was a student, I worked some of those minimum wage jobs, this book shows the bleak lives and expectations of those people that are trapped for life in those jobs.The writing is passionate, compassionate and funny.  It manages to get its points across strongly without ever becoming preachy.
5	996278400	For those looking for a book with numbers, graphs, and complex policy, this is not the book for you. Nickel and Dimed opened my eyes to an entire section of American society that is forgotten and ignored. Ehrenreich's accounts shocked and horrified me. This book will burst the bubble of any American under the illusion that the '90s made Americans rich. These stories of hardship also put my own life into perspective. While Nickel and Dimes provides no easy solutions to the problem of poverty, it at least shows why something must be done. Allowing people to suffer in the richest nation the world has ever seen is a crime.
5	996192000	i haven't read this yet but i'm going to . bill maher highly recommended this on larry king tonite so that's good enough for me. sounds like a good one though
4	996105600	this book will vindicate the socialist in you.  ;o)  in barbara ehrenreich's experiences as a minimum-wage-earner, you get a sense of the hopelessness and degradation that fill the lives of the working poor.  her writing is entertaining but thoughtful, reflecting the dead-end work opportunities open to the uneducated and the 'unskilled.'  it made me mad, reading about the disregard for human well-being the author encountered during her research.  i suppose you can see it yourself ever day, if you bother to look close enough.
4	996105600	After reading this book, I have a new appreciation of the blessing of a stable address, food in the refrigerator, and the ability to close a door and enter a space that allows privacy without fear of interruption.  Ms. Ehrenreich has made it impossible to ever walk into a mega-mart store again and see the employees as faceless servants or to dismiss them as under achievers.  Although her political sentiments sometimes lead to some naive and biased conclusions, this is a work that changed my perceptions and for that I thank her.
1	995932800	Dr. Baba Ehrenreich has fully complied with the requirements for graduation into the Karl Marx socialist pantheon with her latest potemkinic tome. Sure, women who perform HARD, menial work for their entire lives while living ALWAYS on their own will NOT make it!  That's why those among them with ANY initiative will start their OWN fledgling cleaning services, lunch stops, making and selling crafts, etc., employing (exploiting?) the youngest and strongest available to do the same sorts of repetitive things they used to.  THAT'S initiative, and that's also VERY common these days.I myself used to do repetitive gift-wrapping for minimum wage, and once tried to supplement it with minimum wage repetitive factory work.  This was too much for MY hands, as well!  So, I did lots of other things, including craft-making for local boutiques.  There ARE choices BESIDES intentionally degenerating into arthritic petrification!  Creating households with multiple members that support one another in tough times is the most obvious - and that often means one person working two jobs while another is temporarily out of any work.  Big Deal!Contrast this with the dope-smoking author, who insisted on living alone, &quot;being on her own&quot;.  That sounds like what a pregnant 14-year old would say!  If her own attitudes were actually representative of the social skills of the women she emulated, they wouldn't be STRUGGLING in difficulty, yet full of life...rather, they would have long ago perished of self-abuse and spiritual starvation.
5	995587200	If you have read, and liked, George Orwell's Down and Out in Paris and London then this is a book for you. The author writes engagingly and informatively on what it is like to part of America's &quot;working poor&quot; and, in the process, punctures a number of middle-class prescriptions for, and misconceptions about, the poor. Why do the poor eat junk food? Because they don't have the facilities - kitchen, pots, cooker - to make lentil soup. Why do the poor live in hotel rooms paying $60 per night? Because they don't have the money for the deposit on the rent of an apartment.  Housing always emerges as the single biggest obstacle in the lives of low-paid employees. Did you know that many low-paid employees ($6-$7 per hour) live in their cars and vans? That a perk of a waitress' job with a hotel was permission to park her van-cum-home in the hotel car park?  This book is in the best tradition of writing with a social conscience -it does not beatify the poor, nor does it regard them as unter-menschen. Indeed, the messsage that I, surrounded by my bourgeois comforts, took away was: &quot;There but for the grace of God..&quot;  If you are not averse to this genre, then you should read this book - it is among the best of this type of writing.
5	995414400	I am telling EVERYONE about this extraordinary book. It's changed the way I look at people and the way I look at my own job. And it's so well written -- the darn thing is really hard to put down! Parts read like a novel, and I CARED about the people she met.I want everybody to read this book! It's about work, it's about housing, it's about how we all treat the &quot;people without faces&quot;: the waiters, cleaners, factory workers, retail stockers, service industry workers, etc., who work their tails off and still make less than they need to get by. It's about a society that says these people want to live this way so why should we raise the minimum wage because that would just punish the poor business owner. It raises questions such as Why assume all your workers are going to steal from you? Why assume that only if we watch them degrade themselves by peeing into a bottle in front of us are they then worthy of stocking our shelves -- when our President is an admitted past drug user? It's about the economy, the invisible poor, health care, sick pay, child care, rest breaks, respect, silly pre-employment screening tests, drug tests, cameras watching every move. And &quot;skills,&quot; or lack of them. As she says, it's a fallacy to say &quot;unskilled labor.&quot;I kept thinking, esp. in regard to the people in the book working two jobs, as so many people do, what kind of life do they have? I've always said, &quot;You only work so that you can afford to have a private life. And if you're not having a private life because you have no time or energy or can't afford it, or if your work leaks over and ruins your private life, then something's wrong.&quot; A good thought, but after this book it appears that I've been spoiled, and it's not that simplistic. She says in the book that what's going on is that these people are selling their lives. For minimum wage. And they're not getting paid what their life is worth. A life changer.
4	995414400	I found this book to be extremely interesting and thought provoking. It made me realize why my 401K plan has done so well for the past 10 years....companies value stock return above all else...even people.I think the idea for the book and the &quot;uderground&quot; investigation was excellent, and the book was very well written. I was, however, dismayed by some of the techniques used...such as trying to survive as a working poor in an area where she lived and already had an idea of the job and housing situation. Also, I questioned her taking along emergency money. It would have been a much more realistic study had she gone out with no &quot;backup&quot; funds.With those faults aside, I think she came to valid conclusions and we should send a copy of this book to every member of Congress to let them see what &quot;soft money&quot; campaign donations has led to. I was amazed at my own reaction after finishing the book. I stopped and thought about the maid who was making up my hotel room, the wait staff who brought my food, etc. It made me think a lot harder about the tip I was going to leave. It also made me think long and hard about writing to my Congressmen about an increase in the minimum wage.
5	995328000	I thoroughly enjoyed Barbara Ehrenreich's very readable and informative venture into the world of low wage work (i.e., hourly wages in the range of $6 - 8 / hour).She attempts, in three different venues, (to the extent possible) to live a life with the same limitations and constraints as one who does not have the option to "re-emerge" after the "experiment" is done. What results is a book that splits open the reality that low wage earners, no matter how industrious and penny pinching, cannot live a "viable" existence as many of us know it. More specifically, the existence slowly saps your health, your dignity, and your drive. Furthermore, this is a working class which is routinely and systematically taken advantage of by its employers.After reading this book, I wanted to approach both Washington and the private sector and demand an answer to the question: How can we achieve a society in which every hard working resident can earn a "living" wage, with dignity intact? Perhaps the one shortcoming of the book is that Erhrenreich does not attempt to address substantially this question herself.
3	995241600	I enjoyed this book more than I thought I would and I can recommend it to everyone.  It is an easy read and will provoke some thought whether you are liberal or conservative.  However, I can only give it three stars instead of the four I would like to give it because the author engages in too much agenda grinding rather than honest reporting.For example, she hates drug tests and admits to smoking marijuana.  Now being against drug tests is one thing, but to say that they are an abuse of the lower classes is, I think, a sign of cultural provincialism.  Try and get a job at ...or many other well-paying jobs without taking a drug test.  In fact, the modern workplace gives many people on both sides of the political spectrum cause for concern for their personal rights.  However, employers also have good arguments for their need to know especially in the face of lawsuits involving what the employer should have known.  There is pain for all involved.She also never talks about the fact that not all jobs are meant to be for the full support of families.  There are many people in the workplace for many different reasons.  Her discussions of economics touch on the usual liberal articles of faith, but she seems to have no idea what an indifference curve is or what it implies.  Simply, people take jobs not because they are made to, but because they prefer taking the job to the other opportunities available to them.  They are free to leave it anytime they wish, as they often do at the low end of the pay scale.  As she herself did from a waitress gig.  People should be encouraged to trade-up on jobs!Mainly, she writes about her personal experiences in getting and learning these jobs.  When she is reporting it is good.  When she is grousing about her personal preferences she is less than good.  Obviously, she is not really cut out for the jobs she took, especially the cleaning job, and it shows through in her writing.  Another thing she never learned, because she never kept the jobs long enough, is that physical jobs become EASIER after a period of months.  She didn&#8217;t dig deeply enough about the truth of these work experiences.  My guess is that her cultural prejudice blinded her in part, and also because she didn&#8217;t have the energy to do the extra work necessary.I remember when I first began working on the line at a Ford plant.  It was miserable for the first month or two, and then it got easier.  It became easier because my body adapted and even more because I learned how to work the job.  She never worked a job more than a month so she reports an incomplete picture and comes across as a working tourist.  Those of us from the working class who have done that work know that she doesn&#8217;t truly understand the experience.  But at least she tries to understand and that is more than most.But her prescriptions are too facile.  She is all for unions and higher minimum wages as cures.  ....  We also do not need higher minimum wages although they seem so attractive to workers.  They really do result in limiting the mix and flexibility of the employment opportunities available.What we DO need is to educate children from their earliest school days about money, about work, and about their right to say no and find other employment.  Just don&#8217;t take jobs you hate.  And work your way up the employment ladder by all available means.  Don&#8217;t think you OWE things to your employer beyond an honest day&#8217;s work.  It would be a wonderful day when these awful employers have to close down because everyone says no to them.  Of course, their greed would force them to change.  But the key is to prepare yourself so you can say no because you have the reserves and opportunities to move on.Read this book.  Think about it.  But don&#8217;t drink too deeply of the kool-aid she presents.  It isn&#8217;t the whole picture.  The working class life is both better and worse than she presents.  But at least it is a lively and sympathetic view into the situation.
5	995068800	Barbara Ehrenreich states that she will do something-- that is, attempt to live (or at least tread water) in the low-wage work-world-- and she does it. She concludes that it isn't easy. Her conclusions are not scientific (the idea that science can be adequately describe social phenomena is a myth anyway) nor are they absolute. Yet nonetheless they are poignant and insightful.Ehrenreich's book details her struggle with lower-middle-class life-- the jobs and the financial stresses, that is. She finds the jobs to be demanding and draining and the stress to be near-unbearable. Of course, one can point out that Ehrenreich did not use all her assets and possibilites (for example, there is little chance for corporate advancement working a job for a month at a time, and she didn't make smart choices regarding where to live) and that many of her issues with the &quot;working poor&quot; world were subjective and based upon a middle-class standpoint. Nonetheless, many of her conclusions were objective. Those she worked with were treated by management in unfair ways, and many around her were, unfortunately, ruined by the evil that is America's privately-based health-insurance system... her story points out many flaws in the supposed &quot;prosperity&quot; today.Ehrenreich's venture into a thoroughly depressing world illustrates the true evil at the heart of America. Most of us in the 1990s (really '00s, but it's still the 90s culturally...) would like to believe that a rising tide is lifting all boats, but N&amp;D shows it isn't so. Ehrenreich's book deals with people who are counter-examples to the prevailing myths. It's often been said that any job is a ticket to opportunity, but N&amp;D shows us many workers (mainly female and minority) who, especially with the constricted &quot;efficiency&quot; (downsizing and other rape) management models that roughly corresponded with the Reagan disaster, work in jobs that are not even tickets to being treated with dignity, much less opportunity.I could state more about this book, but I don't want to give too much away. Everyone should read this book. Managers, intellectuals, liberals and conservatives, religious men/women (she insults religion in a way I consider unfair, but that's more of a side note than anything else), government workers, CEOs, college students, wealthy and poor (in short, everyone over about 18) ought to read it. It's not perfect, and has some biases, but it has something to teach everyone.~Mike
4	994896000	Dr. Ehrenreich took on a courageous project. Bravo for her chutzpah! She provided a much needed viewpoint on the other side of the economic boom at the end of 1999 to 2000. The book was a fascinating read about where the low-wage service employees reside.While she examined the life of the working poor and her own reaction to such a life very honestly, I disagree with her interpretations. For someone who is trained in the sciences, the statistics and studies she quoted to support her theories lacked rigor. I was very disappointed in the lack of reliable endnotes or bibliography.While we empathize with the currently inflated housing prices and the shortage of affordable housing, we disagree with her simple generalization that the wealthy oppress the poor. Such old-school socialist dogma fail to address all the complexities contributing to the economic divide between rich and poor. In addition, unionizing low-wage employees will NOT solve all their problems.
5	994896000	Barbara Ehrenreich has always been one of my heroes, but after reading Nickel and Dimed, I have even greater respect for her.  Few social critics or perhaps any politicians have the temerity to do what she did - to actually see whether they can survive in the same low-paying jobs thousands and thousands of Americans depend on to live.  As an outsider looking in, she provides invaluable insight into the working poor.Ms. Ehrenreich never pretends to be in the same situation as many of those she works with and recognizes her advantages.  But as she tries to earn enough money to live on and have enough for the next month's rent in three different states - Florida, Maine and Minnesota - she realizes that these advantages are pretty much the opposite.  What she learns is fascinating, disturbing, educational and so much more ... For me, it helped put a face to all those women who were taken off the welfare rolls and reveal the lives that awaited them, as well as giving voices to many who never would have had an audience.I think that her surprise at how little difference her education and experience makes is especially informative, as she goes to lengths to make sure not to 'give' herself away.  And in the end she learns more about herself and the hidden side of American life than she anticipated.I could go on and on here I found this book so wonderful and upsetting, but I don't want to give away much of her actual experience or revelations.  It did, however, open my eyes and my mind and make me think differently about a number of things, and for this reason, I recommend it highly.  While it may not be a 'perfect' book, there is still so much that anyone and everyone can learn from it that I certainly hope it finds a wide audience, giving many who would otherwise never have one a peek into a whole different world.
5	994723200	I finished reading this book yesterday, and, out of curiosity, came to Amazon to see what the reviews were like. As I expected, most of the reviews were 4 or 5 stars. It's a wonderful book. But the 1-star reviews are fascinating. If you've read the book, it's pretty obvious that only one of the 1-star reviewers shows any sign of MAYBE having read the book. The rest of them just saw a review somewhere, or perhaps heard Dr. Ehrenreich speak on t.v. and the idea of someone speaking up for the working poor scared them so badly, shook their bigotry so deeply, that they had to strike back by trashing a book they didn't even bother to read.The vehemence of those people, their readiness to attack the most vulnerable people in this country tells you why this book is so important.The truth - which you'll hear again and again from people who've actually read the book - is that this is a book that every American citizen ought to read. And - lucky us - it's one of those rare &quot;must read&quot; books that is also compelling, beautifully written, and impossible to put down.You can't read this book and not change the way you look at the world. I was raised by a single mother who worked poorly paid jobs all her life and in high school and college I worked several of those jobs myself, so I consider myself pretty sensitive to the difficulty of low wage workers' jobs and lives. But this book shocked even me. The last time I worked for the minimum wage, in the mid-seventies, it was hand to mouth, but I could get by. I had to go to work with the flu a few times because I had no sick days and couldn't afford the loss of a day's pay, but as long as I showed up for work every day, I could pay my rent and buy food. Not much of it, and most of it pasta and rice, but I could at least survive. After reading Dr. Ehrenreich's book, I realize that's not even possible anymore. The poverty I knew thirty years ago doesn't even begin to compare with what people in the same circumstances face today.But Dr. Ehrenreich is not just insightful when she's dealing with the economic difficulties in poor people's lives. This is one of the few non-fiction books I've ever read that shows a real insight into the psychology of poverty - the way it strips people of their dignity, their energy, and, in many cases, their ability to fight back. Again and again, as I read the book, I was reminded of all the daily indignities you experience as a poor person, and how those indignities act as a means of social control - and my experiences as a poor person came before employers got really expert at stripping away people's dignity with things like urine tests and invasive psychological profiles.I think Dr. Ehrenreich made one slip in writing this book. She says that she decided to keep her car, even though many working poor people have to get by without one, because she thought a book about sitting around waiting for buses would be pretty boring. Maybe. But her choice made her miss one important psychological insight. Spend too much of your life waiting for buses - which in many cases just pass you by because they're already packed - and that becomes the central fact of your life. You wait for things, and if nothing comes, you wait some more. People learn the skills life teaches them, and having to depend on buses teaches people an inordinate patience that can be hard to shake off.You will find it impossible not to care about the people in this book. If you've bought any of the current cliches about poverty stemming from laziness, addictions, or poor choices in life, be prepared to have your prejudices blown away.As I read this book, I found myself constantly aware of the people I depend on every day, wondering about their lives. And, most important, wondering what I can do to make them better. I don't know the answer. A lot of the 1-star reviewers suggest that Dr. Ehrenreich gives some &quot;socialistic&quot; answer to the problem, but in fact, she doesn't offer a solution at all. All she does is remind us vividly and unforgettably that there is a problem, an urgent problem, and that we'd better begin figuring out ways to solve it. She reminds us of our common humanity. And we owe her our gratitude for that.
2	994723200	I am not a caveman conservative who believes that hard work regularly pulls one out of the lower economic class. For those with average talents, a lack of early socialization, in particular, makes a modest lifestyle extremely difficult. From published reviews, I looked forward to Ms. Ehrenreich's book for graphic documentation on how hard and unrewarding, and often degrading, most low paying/minimum wage work is. I expected her, given the time she expended in her experiment, to make a reasonable effort to see if she could survive-regardless of whatever that proves. Unfortunately, in her new life as a worker, Ms. Ehrenreich made stupid decisions and was destined to fail. For example, she seeks to work and live in urban areas where housing expenses are high. She quit jobs quickly and traveled long distances, at relatively considerable expense, looking for work. The minimum wage jobs are, I believe, just as abundant in moderately small towns, where housing costs are much lower. Ms. Ehrenreich also chose to live alone. As virtually every college student does, she could have found one or two roommates to greatly reduce expenses. The author, seeking to work two jobs at once, choose only physically demanding jobs-such as motel housekeeping. She, understandably, could not cope. Why didn't she pick at least one physically less demanding job--such as a receptionist. These jobs are not hard to find-anyone who shows up to work regularly, treats everyone politely, etc. will quickly go to a modestly higher paying position in most offices. I've seen it happen many times. (I don't pretend these suggestions would necessarily, or likely, lead to a satisfying life style, but the author, a native speaker with assumed high socialization skills, having no health problems or dependants, could have survived). Ms. Ehrenreich didn't use her prior socialization skills. Perhaps she might argue that using such skills would make the results of her experiences irrelevant to the common worker. I would agree. In any event, the purpose of her book is muddled. While the book was fairly interesting, I think many reviewers simply rate the book high since it addresses (adequately or not) an important and interesting topic. What are the odds that this book would have appealed to anyone if she had reported that one can survive, much less advance, starting with a minimum wage job?  Zero.  Liberals, such as myself (believe it or not) would have contended the book was written by a right-wing conservative with an agenda, or, that Ms. Ehrenreich had social skills that make her triumph irrelevant  to the common worker.  We would not have purchased the book.  Conservatives, who couldn't care less about the topic, would not have purchased the book  in any event.  Accordingly, Ms. Ehrenriech (&quot;Dr.&quot; Ehrenriech to middle class jokers who would use such an irrelevant title for an undistinguished  biology PhD. attemting socialogy), wouldn't have made a dime off her book.  The results of her flawed socialogical experiment will make her hundreds of thousands (minimum) on her hardback best seller.  She had zero incentive to make a reasonable effort to survive as a minimum wage worker.  She was able to return to the real world (of  Amazon reviewers) and further support her Yuppie lifestyle due to a common sense ability to make $$$$$ on a book.  An &quot;important book&quot; would have simply followed an actual minimum wage worker's attempt at surviving  or succeeding.  &quot;Doctor&quot; Ehrenriech's book merely sets back the effort to show, to open-minded moderates, that conservative dogma on economic advancement is largely a myth.
4	994636800	This book is an interesting and easy read.  "Barb" as her alter ego came to be known while working at Wal-mart, set out to tell the story of a typical middle-age divorcee trying to cut it off of Welfare.And as most of us might expect, she proves that it can be done if you are really lucky, are in good health, and you always have a way out.  At any point in this novel, the author could have ducked out - well... in a way she did... every time she discovered she couldn't make her rent, she just quit her jobs, picked up and started over.Don't get me wrong, I admire her pluck.  But throughout the entire book, I got the feeling that she was more interested in whether she could do it than what the true plight of our fellow Americans really is.  And she certainly never made any indication that she wished to learn how to improve the lives of people who find themselves in this situation.Honestly, nothing shocked me about this book. ...Despite the occasional itch that Barb gave me (at one point she mentioned that she now could understand what it was like to be black!... talk about rankling the reader). I enjoyed this book, it is well-written, and the research included is excellent.  I was a bit disappointed that she never touched on the subject of bettering your socio-economic position through education.But what I want to know is, what was her purpose in writing this?  It seems to me that the intended audience is the middle and upper class...
4	994636800	I could relate to much of the author's experiences having done menial jobs in highschool and college. I worked side-by-side with the same hard-working folks! I think what surprised me most was the condescending way many of the employers treated their employees, as if they were children! And also dispensible! I don't think there is a simple solution to the economic inequalities in our country. The prevailing challenge in the author's sojourn into the &quot;real world&quot; seemed to be finding affordable housing. I think creating subsidized or low-income housing would be extremely beneficial. It's terrible the way she had to live in a motel (as many folks have to do). The thoughts that strongly came to mind as I was reading this wonderful expose were: 1)How very important a college or even a vocational education is. This would give the working poor so many other options! 2)&quot;No man is an island&quot;...meaning, we need one another! During the Depression, families stuck together and helped each other out! I think it's too easy to rely on government hand-outs and not on one another. We who have plenty need to be giving food to food banks and donating to charities like Union Gospel Mission, that truly help the poor. Native-born Americans need to examine the way new immigrants work and help each other out. Vietnamese and Chinese immigrants are a good example. They help one another get through college, borrow money to help a sibling start a business, shelter their aging parents, pool their money together to buy a house, etc. And they are often successful as they intrinsically know that education is the way out of poverty and the way to acquiring dignity. What can WE learn from them?  As you can see, this book will provide some wonderful food for thought and generate some lively discussions!
5	994204800	I know my the name of my UPS delivery man--I know that he likes to play soccer, that he projects a cheerful and energetic personality, and has for the last ten years he's delivered to our office. I know the name of the woman who serves my friend and me breakfast each Friday morning at a chain restaurant. I've bought charity lotto tickets from her sons and know the story of her daughter who died when the insurance company insisted on using a cheaper lab. I know that when minimum wage increased,  management cut her hours so her paycheck remained the same, but the workload increased. But I don't know anybody at the copy shop, the fast-food joints, or even the grocery store. They all merge with the background, human servants of the commercial machine upon which my life depends.NICKEL AND DIMED: ON (NOT) GETTING BY IN AMERICA tells the story of what a privileged and articulate writer experienced when she attempted to live as an &quot;unskilled&quot; working class person. Barbara Ehrenreich spent time in Key West, Maine, and Minnesota holding down jobs as a waitress, nursing home aide, cleaning woman, and Wall-Mart &quot;associate.&quot; She attempted to live on the wages these jobs paid--without drawing on her skills as a PhD, author, or lecturer.Ehrenreich writes well. Her story engages the reader from the first page of the introduction to the final page of her &quot;Evaluation&quot; chapter. Her frustration leaked through the page and into me. I became enraged at the humiliating bosses and the abusive working conditions--and then I'd close the book and reflect that millions of people endure worse with no hope of writing up their notes and producing a best-seller from their experiences.While the anecdotes of Ehrenreich's experience were at least entertaining, her evaluation of the experience became the most interesting part of the book to me. She evaluated her experience through the Liberal lense of class conflict and power dynamics. It would be interesting to read a companion volume written by a &quot;Conservative&quot; journalist who ventured the same experiment.She discovered that while no job is truly &quot;unskilled,&quot; the low wage jobs that she got made physical demands, some of which could be damaging if performed month after month--even for a physically fit person. She found few no rewards for heroic performance, that &quot;the trick lies in figuring out how to budget your energy so there'll be some left over for the next day&quot; (p. 195). She found that it is nearly impossible to earn enough money to survive on with just a single job, even during the tight labor market of 1999:&quot;Something is wrong, very wrong, when a single person in good health, a person who in addition possesses a working car, can barely support herself by the sweat of her brow. You don't need a degree in economics to see that wages are too low and rents too high&quot; (p. 199).She examines the pressures exerted on workers to keep them subservient and from asserting their power. She challenges the idea that we are a democracy if large numbers of citizens spend half their waking hours in what amounts to a &quot;dictatorship&quot; in the workplace. She also speculates on the depressive effects of the disempowerment to which the &quot;working poor&quot; must submit.Ehrenreich challenges the myth of the American Dream. Even her co-workers subscribed to this myth, working hard so that someday they, too, could live affluent lifestyles, failing to evaluate the extreme unlikelihood that they would ever leave the ranks of the working poor. Our last elected president came up from poverty--so did his opponent, Ross Perot. &quot;This is America, anybody can become a millionaire!&quot; That is the myth--one which keeps the workers docile. Ehrenreich believes that eventually that myth will be rejected:&quot;Someday ... they are bound to tire of getting so little in return and to demand to be paid what they're worth. There'll be a lot of anger when that day comes, and strikes and disruption&quot; (p. 221). Although she never actually uses the word &quot;revolution,&quot; her book demand that it's time for the &quot;Compassionate&quot; Conservatives to stop telling the workers to eat cake and to pay attention to the growing inequalities in our society.Five stars for the courage to do the research and five for writing style. I only give her conclusion four stars because I believe her experiment deserved a better epilogue, more forcefully dispelling the post-Reagan myths about poverty and upward mobility. Regardless of your political/economic beliefs, this book demands to be read. Perhaps you'll evaluate Barbara's experiences and come to different conclusions ... or perhaps you'll find that you start seeing people who had been an invisible part of your life all along. Don't avoid this book, you owe it to yourself and to the people who stock your shelves, run the cash registers, deliver food to your table &amp; clean your hotel rooms.(If you'd like to dialogue about this book or review, please click on the &quot;about me&quot; link above and drop me an email. Thanks!)
5	993772800	Barbara Ehrenreich's book touches on a problem most of us would rather not think about. With out a doubt many of the poor profiled in her book had made bad choices and their substance abuse didn't help but here is the deal: middle class people do these things too. The difference is they benefit from the largess of well off relatives and always have more options. The author did a turn as a waitress, maid and sales clerk. Her experience was eye opening and put me in mind of Jack London's book &quot;People of The Abyss.
5	993513600	Nickel and Dimed - I just finished reading Barbara Ehrenreich's book Nickel and Dimed - On (Not) Getting By In America.  Ms. Ehrenreich took on the task of going "undercover" in the blue-collar sector. Let me reword that - in the working-poor(WP) sector.  Why are we all so poor if we are hard working people?  That is an issue that is addressed in this wonderful book, and I appreciate the fact that someone is saying it.  Unless you find yourself a member of this particular club, you have no idea all the complications that hold you back and hold you down.  Nickel and Dimed is not a boring political thesis on the poor in America.  It is more of a documentary.  It shows rather than tells the story.I would recommend that everyone read this book.  It should be required reading in high school and again in college. I have one small complaint - that the author portrays Christians in a less than favorable light.  But, that is commonplace today. Christianity has morhped into some kind of snake-handling side-show attraction to either be viewed with awe or disgust, depending on the onlookers beliefs. The truth is, a simple faith in God has brought many working class Americans through the toughest of times with perseverance and grace.  But, we're all just people trying to make it through.I hope everyone will get a copy of this book.  It is an easy read. It will inform the people who think poor people are just lazy, and will infuriate the WP club members who will see themselves and realize, there is nothing they can do.
5	993513600	I read this book the day after I read Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill's comment that &quot;Able-bodied adults should save enough on a regular basis so that they can provide for their own retirement and, for that matter, health and medical needs.&quot;  This book should be required reading for Mr. O'Neill and the rest of the Bush administration.  Of course, people should try to save for their retirement, and of course, they should try to educate themselves.  But, guess what?  Someone still has to work at Wall-Mart, or clean hotel rooms, or take our orders in a restaurant!  Should they try to survive on poverty wages for that privilege?  As Ms.Enrenreich points out, many other countries help out their working poor with socialized medicine, universal child care, and housing subsidies. When are we going to show true compassion, and follow their lead?
4	993513600	Ehreneich does an excellent job of exposing the myths of the free market for labor and the flexibilization of the labor force as a force for unabashed good. There is an utter moral bankruptcy in a system wherein CEO's of companies ( including one of the companies considered- Walmart) become phenomenally wealthy while the  majority of employees become more impoverished in real terms. As most people know, the real wage in this country , though rising for the past couple of years is now back only to 1965 levels. So much for the wonders of the free market. The ideology of the free market is so shrill these days as can be viewed by drr8066's utterly off the mark critique ( I am getting a Phd in economics- and Ehrenreich is right for the most part- she has also been advised my many top notch economists) that this book is truly refreshing. The one thing which I do believe that Ehrenreich overstates is the excesses of government. While it may be true that  the government is bureaucratic and heavy handed, it remains the only instutition in this country which can represent ( however imperfectly) the interests of the poor.
1	993340800	Ms. Ehrenreich missed an opportunity to understand why low wage workers are able to cope and thrive in our consumer driven society. Instead she demeans them as victims of a corporate plot to keep wages low and workers constained. She never mentions that the global economy and competition is the major force in keeping wages and prices from rising. She argues for a &quot;living wage law&quot; but fails to acknowledge that this will put a significant number of low wage earners out of work. Finally, she forgets that immigrant workers in particular are better off earning $6/hr than they are in their own countries; and that they choose to work and live in the United States because of freedom and a chance to make a living. Most of the book is a recitation of Ms. Ehrenreich's own political and sociological views. She fails to put us in the shoes and minds of her subjects. Moreover, as a writer, she lacks insight into the human condition. This could have been a great book, instead it's a vehicle for 60's rhetoric.
5	993340800	There was this huge standing ovation in my mind as I finished this book, even though there is the good chance that nothing will come of a work of expose such as this.  People read this, say that it is an eye-opener, but can only treat the people who work in these situations better.  How long can they do that?  How long will they remember to do that?  It seems like there should be something more that we can do to stop this misery, but no one has any real solutions, except those who are harsh critics of the book.  I have done all of the jobs that the author describes in this book, with the exception of waitress.  And most of my adult life I have always worked two jobs (except when I was in college, where scholarships and loans kept me afloat with one full time job).  And getting degrees doesn't seem to help; I had to work two jobs after getting my Associate's and two jobs after getting my Bachelor's.  I was there, as a cook/dishwasher/drive-up window operator in high school when the restaurant sewage system backed up into the dishwashing area.  (Unforeseen expense number one:  New shoes--$10 at Kmart.  I drove home that night barefoot.)  I was there, working for Kmart when the restaurant closed down, cheering the KMART cheer (yup, they have one, too) and working as "price check person" for four departments one night, in addition to working as a back-up checkout person.  I knew I had to quit working there when I was checking someone out and realized that I would have to run and check the price because I was supposed to be doing it.  I then moved to Branson on the "60 Minutes" premise that the city was booming, and worked in a bookstore in the mornings and in junior management in the afternoon.  I kept that up for two years before finally scraping enough money together for college and leaving because the corporation I worked for had me hire my own new boss without telling me (they said I would get to handpick my own assistant manager, so I thought that I was moving up) AND a part-time employee who would be getting paid what I was, all in the same week.  I've slept with fleas on poor friend's floors, I have experience a domestic fight in the middle of a night where the force of the wife meeting the wall knocked plaster on my face.  Now I am better off, but I am one major illness away from these people.As for those who think that these poor should budget better and knock out the frivolities, in some cases I agree.  I have seen paychecks wasted on satellite television before.  But most of the crowd could be summed up in the sentiment of one woman in this book, who says:  "I don't mind, really, because I guess I'm a simple person, and I don't want what they have.  I mean, it's nothing to me.  But what I would like is to be able to take a day off now and then . . . if I had to . . . and still be able to buy groceries the next day."If you are only considering reading this book, buy it now and read it.  Maybe you have some ideas on how to change things.
5	993340800	This book is an Upton Sinclair-like chronicle of what it is like to try to find, hold, and live on minimum wage jobs. It provides an insightful view of what American prosperity looks like from the perspective of an inexperienced homemaker returning to the workforce. It's a small book - one that you can read in a sitting or two - but very powerful. The author admits her biases, and I would challenge anyone who thinks she overstates her case to be &quot;born again&quot; as an inexperienced, uncredentialed homemaker.
3	993340800	Barbara Ehrenreich is that rarest of breeds, a 21st century American who still clings to the tenets of  Socialism.  At the suggestion of Lewis Lapham, editor of Harper's, she decided to try to see how folks  moving from welfare to work might be faring and if she could survive on the minimal income  provided by a series of low level jobs.  Allowing herself a small amount of startup money, she went to  Key West, FL; Orchard Beach, ME; and Minneapolis, MN; and found work and a place to live, with a  goal of saving enough by the end of the month to pay the next month's rent.  Her jobs consisted of  waitressing and working as a hotel maid in Florida, working at a nursing home and a house cleaning  service in Maine, and at Wal-Mart in Minnesota.  Her essays about this experience first appeared in  Harper's but are here expanded, barely, to a book length account in which we find out much about  Barbara Ehrenreich, fairly little about the difficult lives of people she worked with, and nearly nothing  about what she would suggest we do to make their lives easier.You see, one of the most distinctive things about the book is that Ehrenreich creates a fictional version  of herself.  She has to minimize her experience when she goes for interviews, has to disguise her true  mission from co-workers and supervisors, has to (mostly) reign in her radical political views, etc.  But  even more, she is a completely atomized being with no family and no friends.  This both makes her  character in the book completely unrealistic and leaves her to spend all her time fixating on herself.  Both are unfortunate.  The lack of friends and family merely serves to point out what an utter  impossibility it is for society to help people who have absolutely no support system of their own.  One  of her main problems is the cost of rent--which must be recognized as a significant problem for a  society that expects people to be able to afford living quarters near the hot economies that are  producing jobs.  But it seems abundantly obvious that rent would be less of a problem if she was  splitting it with a roommate, friend, or family member.  In fact, this is so obvious that her endless  complaining abut her rent loses its effectiveness because we realize how easy a problem this would be  to alleviate.Equally maddening is her refusal to take advantage of the easiest opportunity that exits to find  friendship and social assistance : church.  At one point she actually goes to a revival meeting, but it  turns out she's only there to make fun of the service.  Later, when she arrives in Minnesota, she spends  an evening with a woman who a friend has suggested she look up.  As far as we can tell from the text,  this is one of the few times she spends a significant amount of time, and has a lengthy discussion, with  someone from the social milieu she's purportedly investigating (the rest of the time she just seems to  race back to her hotel room to type up notes).  But here she meets someone who has been on welfare,  has been homeless, has actually packed up her children and moved to a strange city, without knowing  she has a real life she could fall back on if things went badly.  And what is this woman's primary piece  of advice :'Always find a church.'  People from the church drove her around to the WIC office...and to find a school for her twelve-year-old girl and day care for her baby.  Sometimes they also helped with groceries.But no, Ehrenreich refuses this advice, and its hard to take her complaints about the lack of available help seriously, knowing that her anti-religious sensibilities prevent her from accepting one of the most  readily available sources of assistance.[....]Meanwhile, all we are left with is Ehrenreich.  Ehrenreich at work or Ehrenreich in a hotel room.  The  rest of the working poor are merely a backdrop.  Sure, she's working the jobs that these folks work,  but she's hardly living the life they lead.  She doesn't participate in their lives, neither individually by  visiting their homes or having them over, nor communally by doing the types of things they do in  their off hours.  The occasional comment from these folks that Ehrenreich does share suggests that in  the first place, they are not alone, as she is.  Many live with family, or have spouses or steadies who  work.  And they are not particularly dissatisfied with their lives, nor do they resent their employers.  Actually, most of them seem proud to be working, proud of their work, and proud of the companies  for which they work. [...]Though for much of the book Ehrenreich engages in navel gazing that will only appeal to her hardiest fans, in the closing pages she offers a truly moving assessment of  how she did, and the pride she takes in having, for the most part, succeeded is genuinely effecting. Here is a denizen of the upper middle class basking in the glow of just making ends meet; imagine  how much more powerfully such an achievement must effect someone who has been living on  government assistance for years.So we come to the end of the book and it seems reasonable to expect Ehrenreich to draw some  conclusions about the whole experience and to suggest some alternatives.  But, other than some self  congratulations and a half-hearted pitch for a living wage (estimated to be about $14 per hour) and  rent control, she doesn't bring much to the table.  [....]
3	992822400	AS A LISTENER  TO NPR I RECENTLY HEARD THIS AUTHOR.SO I WENT ON THE NET TO PURCHASE THIS BOOK. VIA AMAZON.COMIT WAS JUST OK . AS A HEALTHCARE PROVIDER(A PROFESSIONAL NURSE RN) I AM WILL AWARE OF THE PEOPLE WHO JUST MAKE BY ON THE LOW SALARIES. MINIUM WAGE IE: MINIUM FOR WHAT? I WOULD SAY.IN THIS COUNTRY A LOT OF THE ENTER LEVEL JOBS ARE SO LOW PAYING. THE AUTHOR NEEDED TO STRESS THE IMPORTANCE OF EDUCATION IE COMMUNITY COLLEGE COURSES TO INCREASE THE AVAIABLITY OF BETTER LIFE STYLE VIA EDUCATION AND EDUCATION IS NOT A FOUR LETTER WORD.AS A PART TIME ASSISTANT PROFESSOR AT A LOCAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE I TEACH STUDENTS IN A SURGICAL TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM:CST. TO ADVANCE THEMSELVES IN THE HEALTHCARE MARKET. THE AUTHOR DID A ONLY SMALL JOB IE THE THREE MONTHS SHE NEEDE TO SEE THE &quot;REAL WORLD&quot; OF POOR TRYING TO STRUGGLE WITH THE JOB MARKET.
5	992822400	Go to the library, if you're not going to buy this book.  But read this book!When I heard the author on a local (NPR) talk show, I knew this book was one I had to read.  Having been a working, food stamp mother in the 70's, I had hoped for the sake of my own kids that things had changed.One of my late 20's sons, a hard worker, can't seem to get ahead despite a willingness to work two jobs and give up what some of think are basic things in our lives (a home of our own, a spouse and kids, basic TV, three square meals).  For those of us in the family working management jobs or owning our own businesses, we're doing fine.  For those in the family who are blue or pink collar workers, life is not so sweet.My son doesn't whine, but I do see his struggles with anger and depression (no negative results so far, thank God) as he suffers with feelings of inadequacy.This book clearly shows that not only have things NOT gotten better than they were in the 70's, they are getting worse as the haves squeeze more and more from the have-nots.  In the company I retired from, the profit line keeps going up despite the economy.  While working for the same company, in the warehouse, my son's wages somehow never increase although his responsibilities do. What's the problem?  What's the solution?The problem is the same one we've had since the industrial revolution -- or since the lords and the serfs -- power, money, greed and manipulation.  What's the solution?  That's the tricky question...and the answer isn't in this book.Still, even without the Answer, please read this book.  Those who have lived or are living the life described painfully in this book will find reading this both depressing and helpful. It isn't you, it isn't the economy -- its the greedy part of Big Business.Those who don't care will write this off, claiming that those who really want to can make it simply by working hard (not true), and that those of us who agree with this book are merely whining.If you don't care, don't bother reading the book.  If you do care, after reading it, pass it along to someone who can't afford it.
1	992736000	Barbara Ehrenreich may have a PHD in Biology, but she knows nothing about economics.  Why not just raise the minimum wage to $100 per hour?  Then everyone would be rich.  The book is too much emotion and not enough reason.  Anyone with an understanding of and respect for the free market system will see that this book is garbage.
5	992736000	I haven't read through all the reviews here so likely I'll be repeating some opinions. What's truly amazing about this book isn't the great writing, but the work the author, who is not especially young, did. That in her 40's or 50's she understood such strenuous menial work for considerable periods of time is just proof of her passion against injustice, which she documents herein so well. I always loved B. Ehrenreich's work, but this is the major opus. Buy it and read it as apparently, from her appearance on best selling lists, many are already doing. 5 Stars.
4	992304000	Insightful look at what it really means to work in this country.  The people that are so often not seen get a voice here, as Ehrenreich describes her experiences working, and trying to make ends meet, as a house cleaner, a Wal-Mart employee, and a waitress.  It's a very illuminating picture of the truth behind the recent wave of prosperity we've experienced.This was a good book, and a fast read.
4	992304000	The author's experiences as a low-wage worker leave little doubt as to the near impossibility of supporting one's self on wages of $7.00 an hour. However, it is pretty obvious in this multi-month experiment that the author was never subjected to the gut-wrenching fear of being without money for life's essentials: she could and did bail out or fall back on resources from her affluent life when she felt the squeeze.But the book is only partly about the wage squeeze that the lower echelon of our work force must endure. It is the conditions of employment that the author describes and experienced that drives the book.As the author moves from waitressing, to cleaning houses, and to being a Wal-Mart associate it becomes obvious that the industrial relations of low-wage jobs exact a very burdensome toll. In low-wage work the distinction between management and employee is emphasized: the employee is not to be trusted and is required to follow exacting rules of work enforced by close supervision or the threat of surveillance. The personality screening and drug testing that occur when being hired stress to the new employee the inequality of the employment relationship. It is a lesson to be absorbed and not forgotten.The author was forced to fight the fatigue, frustration, and even boredom of the low-wage jobs as constructed by the employers. Even a few moments of dignity and self-respect that originate from a job well done cannot offset the controlled and demanding nature of low-wage work.The author is obviously an advocate for unempowered low-wage workers. But in what may be the most disturbing point of the book, the author admits to finding little in the way of understanding among her low-wage co-workers of their conditions of employment or of class relations in general - many even were mostly concerned with satisfying unreasonable managerial expectations. Such is one of the effects of many low-wage work regimes.In a era when welfare has been reformed right out of the consciousness of most Americans, this book attempts to place the very real poverty of millions of hard-working Americans back on the radar screen.
5	992217600	&quot;How does anyone live on the wages available to the unskilled?&quot;  That's the fundamental question that Dr. Ehrenreich set out to answer by living as an unskilled person in Key West, Portland Maine, and Minneapolis.  Basically, she couldn't make it work very well at all, despite having many advantages over the typical worker in these jobs.  Along the way, she meets many people who make it work better, but are still being ground down by their fragile economic and work status.This book reminds me of the classic sociological exposes where the author set out to try the role of the downtrodden on for size.  Her conclusion is that &quot;no job, no matter how lowly, is truly unskilled.&quot;  These are hard jobs.  Despite her association with wanting to be a pleasant, helpful person, Dr. Ehrenreich soon begins to see customers as the enemy in her service jobs.  Interestingly, her co-workers can keep a friendly, cooperative attitude better than she can.Although there is anger in her report, there is also much humor (often aimed at herself and the managements of the companies involved) and praise for her &quot;unskilled&quot; colleagues as they cope with housing and medical costs that soar much more rapidly than their wages in an America where income and wealth are growing best for the richest and most well educated.Her rules for this experiment were simple.  She would not use her educational skills, she would take the highest paying job offered to her, and find the cheapest place to live.  Unlike many poor people, she started off with enough cash to make down payments and place security deposits on apartments.  She also could rent a car, so she had more choices of places to live and work.  She did not have children with her, as many &quot;unskilled&quot; new workers coming off of welfare do.  Despite her best intentions, she bent all of these rules.  You would have done the same.  She lived in some pretty scary places, and probably placed her life more at risk than this book indicates.  We should all be grateful for her courage and her willingness to share what she learned in such an accessible and interesting form.Based on her experiences and what people told her who were her co-workers, it is only possible to succeed with these jobs if you hold at least two of them.  You also have to have some way to get between the two jobs, and some method of finding an inexpensive place to live.  Your best bet is to share housing with friends or relatives.  You won't have access to the time and information to find a better job very easily, and will find yourself worn down by the constant surveillance, high workloads, and physical demands of your work.One of the most interesting parts of the book is that she raises the question of whether the currently free market for labor is the best approach.  There are other costs.  Turnover is high in these jobs, and supervisory costs are also high.  If people liked the jobs and stayed longer, profits would be higher and costs lower.  In some jobs, it was typical for people to leave after only one day.  Also, there are social costs in terms of children who don't get help, medical needs that are untreated, and criminal behavior that is encouraged.The problems described here seem to be typical for restaurant, &quot;unskilled&quot; health care, retailing, cleaning, and lodging workers.  The number of these jobs will keep growing.I hope that people who own or manage businesses will take the time to consider how they can redesign jobs in order to pay better wages to &quot;unskilled&quot; people, so that a living wage is available.  I also hope that the same consideration will be provided for these workers as for the scarce technical talent that is so often wooed.Also, think about how you treat such workers when you are a customer for these services.  How can you be more considerate?Uphold dignity, respect, and opportunity for each person!
5	992217600	It's interesting to read the few one-star reviews of this book because they indicate exactly how the free-market people (and the Republicans) justify the growing gap between rich and poor.The argument goes something like this.  Find a person who actually did manage to succeed from a low-wage background, then generalize &quot;if one person can do it, so can everyone else.&quot;  This plays nicely into the American as individualist mythos as well as the &quot;capitalism provides everyone with an equal opportunity&quot; idea.  The problem is that such success depends as much on outside factors as it does on one's own efforts--which is just the point the Ehrenreich tries to make.Perhaps housing and utilities are cheap in Houston, but that doesn't mean they're cheap or even readily available elsewhere.  Having a car is nice, but the cost of a vehicle often includes insurance which can be the real killer (let alone rising gas prices). Budgetting that works in one place might be meaningless elsewhere.And, as Ehrenreich points out, what really hammers the low-wage people is the occasional unforseen expense.  Tripping and nearly breaking her ankle can hardly be blamed on the maid she writes about, but paying for treatment of that injury could wipe out what little she might have saved. (And, as the author notes, she DOESN'T have her ankle looked at, which could produce larger problems down the road that may be MORE EXPENSIVE to treat or could prevent her from getting a better job.)Or lets look at the so-called &quot;new&quot; economy, which requires computer skills.  Many working poor lack the time or opportunity to acquire these skills.  As this technology grows more and more prevalent, they fall farther and farther behind. Once again, the poor end up being marginalized.While it's nice that the one-star people managed to escape the low-wage pit, their lack of sympathy for those still in it is appalling.  But, it's that lack of sympathy that has allowed the Republicans to win office. Moreover, it's that lack of sympathy that has allowed CEOs to line their pockets with outrageous compensation packages while minimum wage workers continue to struggle to climb to some modicum of the American dream. (Those who succeed deserve to succeed handsomely; those who fail deserve to suffer.)  Contrary to what most people seem to want to believe, earning a low wage does NOT mean someone doesn't have a work ethic or wants to welch off the state.  (No one in Ehrenreich's book seems to be a slacker.) If it did, there would be a major movement among the low wage earners to vote themselves benefits.  Instead, they also believe the mythos that anyone can succeed in America and most of them work hard to try to reach that goal.Yet, the one-star people fall into the trap of blaming those who struggle for their own struggles.  It's a simplistic argument but such demonization seems to play well for votes. (So does the tactic of resorting to economic arguments as if they were unrefutably proven scientifically.  Economic theorists can only describe trends and their predictions grow less and less accurate the closer one gets to the ground.) Both approaches ignore the many factors that influence a person's economic life in favor of the idea that &quot;if they just work harder...&quot;Sure, making sure people work hard is good for society, but making sure they're rewarded for their hard work is also important.  (After all, there are many stories of CEOs who are handsomely rewarded for driving their companies into the ground.  Shouldn't they be demonized just as much as those welfare cheats?)  It's time for people to get a balanced view of people's individual economic value rather than attack the poor for their problems.  It's hard to believe, I know, but most poor people don't want to be poor.
5	992044800	What does it mean to work like the devil at one, two or more jobs and still not be able to afford a decent place to live or decent food?  What does it mean to then turn on the TV and see some one-in-ten-million proclaim, &quot;if you can dream it, you can do it?&quot;  What does it mean when a good employer is one that will let you live in your car in the lot behind the business?Some argue that it is impossible to know what life is like for anyone other than yourself.  This has the unhappy effect of leaving each of us trapped in our own little disconnected universe unable to communicate our most basic experiences or understand those of our neighbors.  Barbara Ehrenreich proves otherwise.  We can imagine.  We can understand.  We can empathize.Ms. Ehrenreich lives as best she can the life of a waitress, a maid and a sales person.  She doesn't do very well.  But then, neither do her co-workers.  Employers and customers do what they can to make the employees' lives miserable.  Low pay, long hours, no benefits and no way out is a sorry existence.  Ms. Ehrenreich has a way out.  She &quot;pretends&quot; at each job for a month, but even the &quot;pretending&quot; for such a short time is a near impossible task.  Better, she understands and conveys to us the trapped, minimalized lives of her co-workers.  A maid trips and falls.  &quot;'Something snapped,' she sobs.  'I heard it snap.'&quot;  Under duress from the author, she calls the boss  - and appologizes!  And keeps working.What Ehrenreich shows us is that low wage work destroys individuals, families and communities more effectively than any welfare system however maliciously designed.The ancient Egyptians developed an economic system unsurpassed at building huge temples and great pyramids.  We have developed an economic system unsurpassed at making a few individuals and a few giant organizations unimaginably wealthy and powerful.  The wealthy and powerful are our temples and pyramids.  What we have yet to do is develop an economic system which is based upon and supports the freedom, dignity, needs and willingnes to work of each individual and community.  Ms. Ehrenreich demonstrates that the mind numbing requirement that we extract every last sweat bead of profit from each transaction permits no time or resources for living a decent life.Barbara Ehrenreich has done us a service.
5	991958400	One does not need to go to the depths of the Amazon rain forests to learn how to survive.  Take an employed person earning minimum wage, put a cloud of job security over their head, add to that financial debts, stress and a family to support (especially if you are a single parent) and you are living in a modern day concrete jungle.  If you can survive these obstacles, you could probably write the book on survival.Barbara Ehrenreich deserves a medal and a thousand ovations for writing this sad but true account of what it is like to survive on miminum wage (if you you can even find employment) and the stigma that goes with existing as &quot;financially poor.&quot;  Notice, I said, &quot;existing&quot; not living.  If you fall into the social class society refers to as &quot;poor,&quot; you do not live from day to day - you exist.  It takes every single penny earned just to survive. We can launch ships to the moon, pay exhorbitant dollars to run countries, build start-of-the-art facilities; meanwhile, we have people living on the street who cannot afford food or a roof over their head.  In my opinion, there is something terribly wrong with this picture.  I was a street counsellor for many years in a Canadian city, and believe me, it is one of life's a great myths and misunderstandings to assume all street people are addicts, criminals, emotional unbalanced and lazy individuals.  There are many well-educated, kind, honest and harmless people out there, not by choice, but by circumstance.  The only difference between the street people and ourselves is that we have been blessed with the opportunities they have not had.Ehrenreich discovered first hand what is what like to survive as one of the living poor.  Even with the advantages of an education, a car and money for rent, she struggles to stay out of a shelter.  I highly recommend this excellent, well written book.  It is a factual and an honest-to-goodness eye-opener in what is is like to desperately try to survive in a world that is not always kind or caring.  If you are fortunate enough not to fall into the income bracket of the financially poor, the book should leave you with a greater appreciation for what you have, for there are no guarantees of what tomorrow will bring to anyone.
5	991699200	If you've ever stayed in a motel, shopped at a Wal-Mart, visited someone in a nursing home, or casually, yea, righteously stiffed a waitress at a restaurant, your blindness to some of the issues affecting the working poor will be blown away after reading this unnerving little bombshell of a book. And if we were still engaged in a national War on Poverty, journalist Barbara Ehrenreich would deserve a Medal of Honor!Who knows what might happen if printouts of these customer reviews started showing up in the smoke holes and break rooms of various restaurants, box stores and nursing homes--along with directions to the nearest public library! To avoid any action that might be construed as copyright infringement, a safer course of action would be to donate copies of Nickle and Dimed to your local DHS office, churches, tech schools, job training centers, etc.It would be great, as well, to encourage our politicians and Chamber of Commerce members to read about this not-so-young woman's experiences while she was doing her undercover investigation of what it's like to live without adequate housing and transportation, much less the security of a good salary, health benefits, and retirement plan. Education can't be the whole answer to this problem. Someone will always have to be hired to provide these services. If people working fulltime are not able to get by in America, who's getting away with what?Ann Adams Cleary Bartlesville, OK
5	991612800	I just finished Nickel and Dimed, and found it fascinating, often hilarious yet mostly heart-wrenching reading, and I learned a lot from it.  I couldn't believe Wal-Mart - charging employees $1 for the privilege of wearing jeans to work on casual Fridays.  With over 800,000 employees, that must be a great source of easy profit for them!This book opens your eyes to the plight of the working poor - and the author was healthy, had no kids to think about, and the knowledge that this was a temporary situation for her.  I applaud her courage in undertaking this experiment.  She's educated a great many people, and every corporate executive should be required to read it.
5	991526400	Describing her efforts to survive on low wage jobs, as millions of Americans must do, Barbara Ehrenreich, who becomes &quot;Barb&quot; as an &quot;associate&quot; at Wal-mart putting back the garments &quot;guests&quot; have tried on and tossed, gives us an unforgettable reading experience.  She tries to make it by the sweat of her brow in Key West, Florida; Portland, Maine; and Minneapolis, Minnesota. In addition, to the Wal-mart job, in the course of the book she works as a waitress, food server in a nursing home, and household cleaning crew member.  She allows herself a &quot;Rent a Wreck&quot; car in each city and it soon becomes obvious she could not have managed to even get to prospective jobs and possible housing without a vehicle. In her survival stint for purposes of writing this book, Ehrenreich does not encumber herself with any dependents, unlike many of her women co-workers.  Nevertheless, as hard working, willing to live in dangerous dumps, and resourceful as she is, Ehrenreich cannot make a go of it. She cannot support herself on the money she makes, even though she is working full-time.  The book is both heart breaking and funny, and is very well written.  There are revelations on almost every page from the almost-comical: Wal-mart associates can only wear jeans on Fridays if they pay $1.00 for the privilege, to the incredible: statistics determining  the poverty level in this country do not take skyrocketing housing costs into account, only the cost of subsistence type food.  The book is an eye-opener and deserves the widest possible readership.
5	991440000	This book is a must-read for anyone who has never worked a low wage job doing menial work. The vast majority of the book is an account of the author's search for unskilled work in three different cities. These parts of the book are inherantly readable, familiar for those who have shared her experiences, and enlightening for those who haven't.The best part of the book, for me, was the evaluation at the end. Ehrenreich's scathing review of the management at her various places of employment was right on the mark, and her overall conclusion that full-time employment is not the same as 'getting by' seems entirely accurate (full time work at minimum wage won't pay the rent and put food on the table). Most interesting, though, was her understanding of the thoughts and feelings of her co-workers. She describes employees feeling like they owe something to their boss, even though they are treated like garbage, and in some cases feeling like they're not worth anything more than their meager income.Whether you're looking for a grim evaluation of wellfare-reform or just an interesting social commentary, this book is well worth the time.
5	991267200	Barbara Ehrenreich is at the top of her form in &quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot;, the tale of her forays among the working poor. This articulate essayist has produced a milestone book which addresses the frightening and ever-increasing economic disparity that marks modern-day capitalism. (If Karl Marx had her gift for apt descriptions and gripping journalism, &quot;Das Kapital&quot; would be far more widely read!)She writes, &quot;The 'working poor', as they are approvingly termed, are in fact the major philanthropists of our society.  They neglect their own children so that the children of others will be cared for; they live in substandard housing so that other homes will be shiny and perfect; they endure privation so that inflation will be low and stocks high.  To be a member of the working poor is to be an anonymous donor, a nameless benefactor, to everyone else.&quot;Even the vassal-workers of medieval times may have had better lives and working conditions; there is no buffer, no benefits of &quot;noblesse oblige&quot;, under world market capitalism.  Ehrenreich hauntingly depicts the day to day struggles of the marginated working poor. Her book is a stunning indictment of  soulless corporations devoted to accumulating wealth while paying their workers subsistence wages.&quot;Nickel and Dimed&quot; will give new heart to members of the &quot;old left&quot;: Capitalism may yet crumble from within, falling victim to its own heritage of injustice and greed.  The system is creaking now, and present conditions cannot be sustained.  In this report from the dark, hidden underpinnings of the present &quot;prosperity&quot;, Ehrenreich reveals the exploitation of millions of American workers.  Bravo!
5	991094400	NICKEL AND DIMED is a book of unpleasant truths and awkward economic realities. Being a book about work in America it should not, primarily be a story about grimly getting by. The people here are not economic failures - not the &quot;underclass&quot; or welfare recipients, they are not even the unemployed. They are simply the unskilled and the working poor; that large sector of our labor force that work for less than $8.00 an hour. Included here are former welfare mothers and all who earn below the official poverty line of $17,230 in annual family income. The story however is grim, because, as the subtitle says: it's all about not getting by in America.The motivation for this book came when Ms Ehrenreich asked herself: &quot;how does anyone live on wages available to the unskilled? And how, in particular, were the [millions of] women about to be booted into the labor market by welfare reform going to make it on $6 or $7 an hour?&quot; Ah ha! some may say, a critique of welfare reform. This proves that NICKEL AND DIMED is just another partisan analysis of inequality and a diatribe about a coming class war. While Ms Ehrenreich does show her liberal sympathies and talks of social protest, the book is far too objective an analysis to be a polemic, and it's much to humorous to be a jeremiad.Ms Ehrenreich worked for months in low wage jobs: waitress and hotel maid in Key West; housecleaner and nursing home attendant in Portland, Maine; and as a salesclerk at Wal-Mart in Minneapolis. Life pretty quickly became a constant fret about affordable housing, health care, and food. &quot;If you can't put up the two months rent you need to secure an apartment, you end up paying through the nose for a room by the week. If you have only a room, with a hot plate at best...you eat fast food or the hot dogs and Styrofoam cups of soup that can be microwaved in a convenience store.&quot; Her jobs in Key West earned Ms Ehrenreich $1,039 for the month, $517 of which she spent on food and she says there was no accomodation near work for less than $600. Work it out - that's not getting by. In Maine she earned $1,200 and managed to reduce rent to less than 50% of her monthly earnings. This was only a pyrrhic victory though as she states that with the tourist season around the corner, her rent would have more than doubled. This constant and futile search for affordable housing is best summarized by her comment that &quot;it came as a shock to realize that 'trailer-trash' has become, for me, a demographic category to aspire to.&quot;The strength of the book comes from Ms Ehrenreichs ability to tell this tale of grim and grimy economics in a sensitive and yet humorous way. She discusses some policy issues - housing, the method of calculating minimum wage, health insurance. She is most insightful and writes at her best when she concludes: &quot;Just bear in mind, when I stumble, that this is in fact the best-case scenario: a person with every advantage that ethnicity and education, health and motivation can confer attempting, in a time of exuberant prosperity, to survive in the economy's lower depths.&quot;Ms Ehrenreich, as a writer, might agree with the comment below, but as NICKEL AND DIMED shows, this should not be anyone's experience of working in America.&quot;Often I think writing is a sheer paring away of oneself, leaving always something thinner, barer, more meagre.&quot; (F. Scott Fitzgerald)
5	991008000	I loved Ehrenreich's original Harper's piece that turned into Nickel and Dimed, but the book is even better. In the face of all the glib talk about how easy it is get by on minimal wage jobs whose pay has stagnated for 20 years, Ehrenreich tries to actually do that-to live on the $5.50 or $6.50-an-hour jobs that are the sole livelihoods of millions of Americans. She creates a wonderful portrait of a world that to most professional  class Americans is absolutely invisible. Ehrenreich tells wonderful stories  about all the ways that low-wage jobs grind people down, and about how the  people caught in those jobs respond with human dignity and solidarity. in the middle of all the forces that grind people down. She's talking about real and urgent issues, but the book is also terrifically funny, both in documenting the blithe callousness that affluent Americans express toward those who serve them, and in her handling of her own role. The humor helps make this a terrific read, and it makes her core points all the more powerful.I also thought constantly while I was reading this book about the  Republican overturning of the ergonomic standards. The jobs she describes routinely destroy people's bodies, because of their pace and because of the  conditions people work under. Yet we've now ditched the very standards that would  have begun to prevent this. With union contracts, people have some protection against the most destructive situations, without them, like in the jobs  she describes, they're totally thrown to the wolves. We're going to have to regain some sense of human solidarity in this country and a politics that respects union organizing, or more and more of us will see our lives squeezed away like the people Ehrenreich so eloquently describes.In my dreams, every political and corporate leader would read Nickled and Dimed and heed its lessons, but since that's probably not going to happen, the rest of us better read it and start demanding we actually become a nation of "liberty and justice for all." Paul Loeb, author of Soul of a Citizen: Living With Conviction in a Cynical Time
4	990921600	Barbara Ehrenreich &quot;leaves behind&quot; her comfortable home, steady income and sets out to see if one can survive on today's working wages.  The only allowences, she has startup money(first and last months' rent) and a car to use.  Very quickly she discovers that life's basic needs cannot be met on minimum wage.  Housing is unavailable and when available, unaffordable.  Medical insurance (when available) is expensive, and food takes a huge chunk out of the weekly pay.  Just to barely survive, it is almost a necessity to work two jobs.  Ehrenreich works in three different areas of the country, three different types of jobs.  The common thread, the jobs were hard, physically demanding, mind numbing, and looked down upon.  Employers were able to administer &quot;personality profiles&quot;(usually given by other employees), demand drug testing (sometimes paid for by the applicant)and kept those they employed in a constant state of upheaval by second guessing every part of the job.  Any working person can identify with this book.  Managers spying on staff to prevent &quot;time theft&quot;, the sense you are somehow beholden to the employer, being asked to work overtime without compensation, and &quot;do as I say, not as I do&quot; management.  What makes this book unique, is it looks at the lowest segment of the working strata...and how impossible it is to survive on what multimillion corporations, politicians,  and stockholders deem a &quot;living wage&quot;.  Even with the backup the author had, she disovered that she was unable to afford housing, &quot;emergency&quot; food and shelter aid is hard to find (once found; the paperwork byzentine and availability spotty), and Ehrenreich finds herself just one step away from living in a shelter.  And she is working.  Hard!  A clear-eyed and honest look at the reality of the working poor.  Ehrenreich gives her coworkers a much deserved dignity and exposes the real impossibility of surviving on low wages and how wearing it is on the soul to be on the low end. if there is a weak point, it is she  felt &quot;above&quot; hercoworkers, although bosses get the most(and much deserved) scorn.  It is easy to talk about dressing &quot;poor&quot; or to dismiss the &quot;hairstyle of the poor&quot;(the ponytail) when you know you have a home and a well paying job to return to.
4	990748800	I'm glad this book was written because I'm a middle-class woman with a college education and a lot of choices in life. I know it's tough out there and I'm glad that I was able to take a peek and see how others live.  Wal-Mart sounds horrible; I used to work at a grocery store as a teenager bagging groceries and that was hades. I knew I had a way out, but most people are not as fortunate.Thank you Ms. Ehrenreich for writing such an eye-opening, powerful book.  I've reccommended it to a lot of my friends.
5	990576000	A good  book about life at the lower end of the worker-bee food chain.  Barbara Ehrenreich is to be commended for actually getting out there and living the life of the menial worker rather than  opining from the ivory tower of the academy.  She really gets to the meat of the problem for people who have to work several jobs to make ends meet, a real life hand-to-mouth drama.  All of us should read this book as it lets you feel the toil, sweat and tears of those on the lower end of the spectrum of employment.It would be even better if her next book would be about running a small business.  Since 65% of GDP is produced by businesses of 50 employees or less she should endeavor to come up with a marketable idea, determine a location, write a business plan, pay the attorneys from her savings, incorporate, pay all the license and registration fees, file with IRS, raise the capital from friends and family, start paying her employees including their health care benefits, FICA, disability and life insurance premiums, and begin to deal with the Byzantine world of State,  Federal and local regulations.  And on top of this she could feel the betrayal a boss feels when the people he has employed steal from him and worse.  Barbara could enlighten her audience and do a great service for the country if she were to undertake this arduous venture, the kind that budding entrepreneurs, both men and women of all colors and creeds, do on a daily basis.  It's part of what distinguishes America from the "old country", they can actually start a business and improve the quality of their life and that of their family.  Many fail, but enough succeed to make our economy the greatest in world history.She should sit down with George McGovern who did this.  His was a profound revelation when the country inn he purchased went bankrupt.  He was particularly upset with the regulations and the taxes.  He didn't realize any of these things when he was in Congress.  He allowed laws to pass that hampered these small business people without having a feel for what he was actually imposing on them.  Like Ehrenreich he should be commended for &quot;walking a mile in their moccasins&quot;.Ehrenreich is such a witty and entertaining writer that she owes it to her audience to produce this sequel.  There are many more areas that need to see the light of day such as she has exposed in this classic work.  An excellent book.
5	990576000	I've already spoken about this book with all my colleagues.  It might even be incorporated into our career segment of the health classes.  I've always enjoyed Ms. Ehrenreich's essays.  I love the one she wrote a few years ago about housewives as leaches.  I don't think that this book will change anything, except it might raise awareness.  I teach high school, but in the summers I work at those 7.00 jobs.  Does she ever have it right--I worked one job in home care--it was exhausting, and then another was a death watch for an old man, and I had a great job to return to in the fall.  When my colleagues start to hollar about salary increases, I'm always muttering in the back, &quot;try wiping old people's bums for $7.00 an hour&quot;--you can imagine I am hated! I was a slum lord's daughter, so I know all about the inability to pay rent.  Dad used to come home with wedding rings every month around rent time--and Dad was a &quot;soft touch.&quot;  He had a reputation for helping people out--well, I guess the big welfare reform wasn't so great, especially for women.
4	990230400	I heartily recommend this book as a sobering and engaging look at the trials and travails of low-income workers in America.  Ehrenreich captures the desperation, fear, and all-too-frequent fatalism of minimum-wage employees, their demanding and often hypocritical managers, and the indifferent, affluent society that surrounds them. Eminently readable (I finished in just under a day), Ehrenreich handles with humor, insight, and not a few footnotes the problems our economic system has handed the workers at the bottom of the pyramid.On the downside, Ehrenreich lets her personal politics show through unfiltered, and I wonder if the image of the poverty-level worker she has fashioned is sometimes little more than a strawman.  By their own admission, many of the workers she portrays have made poor life-choices; would increasing wages, providing decent benefits, and constructing a more &quot;compassionate&quot; work environment result in workers dumping their abusive partners, perpetually poor money management skills, work habits, or addictions that account for much of their misery? It's a chicken-and-egg question  Ehrenreich dances around (or ignores, I couldn't tell which).  And, while Ehrenreich holds corporate America largely responsible for the inequitable and inhuman treatment suffered by the workers, she fails to explain how a corporation that tolerated substance abuse, shoplifting or other forms of theft, and absenteeism -- all of which she personally has no qualms about in her co-workers -- could stay in business, let alone not be shut down by a government agency or sued out of existence in a product liability case.  Ehrenreich describes reality at the worker level while short-changing realities at other levels.Nevertheless, it is not Ehrenreich's purpose to debate the complex interactions of the nation's economy.  She is, first and foremost, an observer -- and she marvelously succeeds at conveying her first-hand experience as an undercover laborer.  Numbers do not lie: she conclusively demonstrates that market conditions do not make &quot;minimum wage&quot; equal to a &quot;living wage&quot;.  She is not a John Howard Griffin -- when the going gets tough, she unapologetically dips into her previous-life resources while musing how hard this must be for the REAL minimum-wage worker.  Her self-imposed one-month stays at each job site left me feeling she hadn't captured the full stories behind many of her reticent co-workers.  Yet Ehrenreich must be praised for her willingness to go through this ordeal at any level, and her book is far more illustrative than a stack of journals and articles of reporters who tackle this issue from the outside.The real story of this book is that a well-educated, resourceful, healthy woman was unable to make her ends meet in low-wage jobs across the country; what should we expect from a portion of the population that lacks one or more of those advantages?  Welfare &quot;reform&quot;, as we know it, has not dispelled the struggling of the low-income wage earner.  While I may disagree with Ehrenreich's proposed solutions, this book convinced me of the need for action.
4	990057600	A good  book about life at the lower end of the worker-bee food chain.  Barbara Ehrenreich is to be commended for actually getting out there and living the life of the menial worker rather than opining from the ivory tower of the academy.  She really gets to the meat of the problem for people who have to work several jobs to make ends meet, a real life hand-to-mouth drama.  All of us should read this book and feel the toil, sweat and tears of those on the lower end of the spectrum of employment. It should be a bracing reality for bosses everywhere.It would be even better if her next book would be about running a small business.  Since 65% of GDP is produced by businesses of 50 employees or less she should endeavor to come up with a marketable idea, determine a location, write a business plan, pay the attorneys from her savings, incorporate, pay all the license and registration fees, file with IRS, raise the capital from friends and family, start paying her employees including their health care benefits, FICA, disability and life insurance premiums, lose money for a couple of years before she starts to break even, and begin to deal with the Byzantine world of State,  Federal and local regulations.  And on top of this she could feel the betrayal a boss feels when the people he has employed steal from him and worse.Barbara would enlighten her audience and do a great service for the country if she were to undertake this arduous venture, the kind that budding entrepreneurs, both men and women of all colors and creeds, do on a daily basis.  It's part of what distinguishes America from the "old country", they can actually start a business and improve the quality of their life and that of their family.  Many fail, but enough succeed to make our economy the greatest in world history.She should sit down with George McGovern who did this in the aftermath of his political career.  His was a profound revelation when the country inn he purchased went bankrupt.  He was particularly upset with the regulations and the taxes.  He didn't realize any of these things when he was in Congress.  He allowed laws to pass that hampered these small business people without having a feel for what he was actually imposing on them.  Like Ehrenreich he should be commended for &quot;walking a mile in their moccasins&quot;.Ehrenreich is such a witty and entertaining writer that she owes it to her audience to produce this sequel.  There are many more areas that need to see the light of day such as she has exposed in this classic work.  An excellent book.
5	989798400	Barbara Ehrenreich wonderfully enough breaks down the simplistic agendas which restrict so many contemporary liberals and conservatives from observing our recent economic boom with due concerns for equity and justice.  Except for her insistence that an adequate provision for the poor is a necessary mark of any true civilization - an insistence as true for the cultural conservative Richard M. Weaver as for the more left-leaning George Orwell - she is free of any vision-distorting agenda.  No latter-day Marie Antoinette eager to play shepherdess, Ehrenreich is quick to point out that her incognito trip through the economic lower depths is in a sense artificial, if not phony, for she's never more than a phone call away from personal bail-out.  Nevertheless, her purpose here is not to wring hands with the suffering poor, but to put herself in a first-person position to report on the plights of so many of them, and this she does with a clear and steady vision.  While she laments, for instance, the absence of union representation as a countervailing force to corporate greed, she acknowledges at the same time her awareness of union abuses past and present. While she sees many female members of the working poor as exploited by low wages and high rents,  she also reveals her despair at finding so many of them them disturbingly passive, and even worse, oddly eager for male management's praises. Ehrenreich's overall purpose is less to outline precise solutions than to call the attention of our greedy society to economic abuses that in fact exist all around us.  In doing so, she has performed a profound civic service.
5	989712000	Ever wondered why when the economy was supposed to be so great, things were still awfully tough/impossible for you? thought there was something wrong with you? this book will make you feel better in some ways and worse in others. The good news: it's not you! You CAN'T live on a minimum wage job in modern america. The bad news: this is a big problem for millions. This book is hilariously funny, heartbreaking, a story about one woman's attempt to learn how to survive while working as a waitress, in walmart, as a maid-- and it;s also a brilliant and sad commentary about ordinary people just trying to get by in america today. read it -- and give it to all your friends, those who make little money-- and especially, to those who make a lot. They need to know this!
4	989539200	I really enjoyed this book. It is wonderfully written, in the literate, witty, and genuine style that the author is well known for in other writings.  The author exposes the harsh realities of the 21st century service economy--an economy built on the backs of permanently low-wage workers.  She shows why workfare is not the panacea some politicians claim.The primary weakness is the author's often naive analysis of the market factors driving the modern service economy.  Also, she seems wedded to the middle-class assumption that everyone is entitled to live alone in a furnished apartment--or, in her case, a succession of short-term rentals.  had she shared an apartment with a working roommate, husband, or boyfriend, her economic situation would not have been so dire.  two or three people making $8 an hour full-time can afford to share a suitably sized-apartment in any of the areas where she conducted her research--except notoriously expensive key west.  isn't this what science post-doctoral do?also: suppose she did her research in a community where low-wage service workers are in demand and paid $10/hour plus benefits?but her overall research is excellent, and i agree with her conclusion that there are too-many poorly paid service workers in our economy who for whatever reason have trouble making ends meet.
5	989452800	I had never heard of Barbara Ehrenreich before I read this book, but I'll certainly never forget her now.  This book touched me, and riveted me.  Her words are clear; full of meaning and emotion.  Her observations on the necessity (or lack thereof) of management in retail are especially incisive.Nickel and Dimed shines a necessary spotlight on the lives of the less-privileged.  After reading it, hopefully you will be just a bit more patient with your waitress (and possibly a better tipper).
5	989366400	One has to admire Barbara Ehrenreich for not just sitting in a comfortable chair and complaining about poverty in America. Instead, she gets out in the world of low wage jobs, limits her own resources and experience and sees what happens.  It's not a pretty story. It's too bad that one can't get the policy wonks at the Cato Institute, for instance, to try her experiment as well.What Ehrenreich does in this book is effectively debunk the notion that anyone can succeed in the American economy because the &quot;free market&quot; provides everyone with an equal opportunity.  Instead, her experiences indicate that most of the poor are trapped in a world of long hours at mind-numbing, body destroying jobs which fail to pay the rent and provide little opportunity for educational improvement. Moreover, because wages are so low, these workers cannot even save money to improve their lot.  It certainly calls into question the notion that prudent frugality and hard work are all that a worker needs to rise up in the American economy.Another important issue raised by this book is the effect these menial jobs have on the psyche of the people who do them.  The &quot;adulation&quot; the maids have for their boss is heart-rending but hardly surprising.  Worse still are the clear class lines that Ehrenreich notes.  One feels appalled at the maid who sees the rich homes she cleans as an incentive to work hard so that she may eventually have the same thing.  In a fair world, she might, but the odds are stacked completely against her.  One is equally appalled, however, by the cynicism of the remaining maids who KNOW that they will never reach that level regardless of how hard they work.This book is certainly an eye opener and a book to suggest to anyone who spouts economic theory at you. What those people never seem to understand is that the &quot;market&quot; is made up of millions of individuals operating as best as they can in an environment that contains far more factors than can ever be graphed on the economists chart.  It's time we had more humanity and realized that rather than insisting on the perfection of a truly free market which will never exist.
5	989193600	I have worked with the poor for a number of years and over time have read many books that try to describe their plight. Ehrenrich does a superb job of telling us about the &quot;working poor.&quot; This book is engaging to read -- better than most novels -- yet has an important message to convey. Her insight on philanthropy on the last page of the book is an &quot;O. Henry&quot; finish. I highly recommend this book.
5	989107200	I've often wondered how the poor manage to get by.  Unfortunately, there is so little on the subject.  Before reading the Nickel and Dimed book, I ran across an article in the March 30, 1998 issue of The Nation on the Hungry Elderly.  And an article about people who can't afford medication.  They periodically end up in an emergency room, where they are stabilized, and then get kicked out. Anyway, the Nickel and Dimed book provided a lot of insight into how the $7 - $9 wage earners live -- minimal dental care, a whole family living in a room, etc.  And how they feel about that (they tend to blame themselves, and probably aren't aware that they are earning considerably less in inflation-adjusted terms than in the 1970's; meanwhile corporate earnings grow rapidly (a 64 - fold increase in S&amp;P 500 earnings since WWII according to a Fidelity ad I saw 2 or 3 years ago).In 1998, 30% of the workforce earns $8/hour or less, according to the Economic Policy Institute.  So what the book describes is not a rareexperience.I was disappointed that there were so few resources and web sites given to further explore this subject.  (Several newspaper articles and books were cited though).One reviewer said you won't be able to put it down.  I agree, be warned.
5	988588800	Barbara Ehrenreich in her latest work again sustains her position as one of the United States most effective social commentators. This is a work which calls upon Americans to recognize their tacit exploitation of a substantial number of their seemingly invisible fellow citizens who are trapped in poverty by limited wage jobs.Ehrenreich's academic background comes through as she proves an excellent teacher.  She presents the factual statistics at the end of the book in its conclusion where the reader more likely to appreciate and absorb their meaning after having read anecdotes from the reality they represent.  Her brilliant (and somewhat daunting) willingness to experience this gruelling existence in various mileus adds credibility to the outrage which she expresses.This should be required reading for most Americans in order to instill some sense of social consciousness and demand for justice.  As Ehrenreich eloquently states, we should be ashamed, not guilty, as a society for the unconscionable circumstances in which so many in this rich nation are hopelessly trapped.
5	987811200	Ehrenreich went on location to report on the lives of working Americans in the supposed boom times of the late 1990s.  Rather than being a reporter looking on from the outside, she actually lived the life of a waitress, a house cleaner, etc.  This could have been patronizing crap in the hands of a different writer but Ehrenreich doesn't pretend to be doing anything except trying to figure exactly how people can afford to live on near minimum wage jobs.  Her answer, they sorta can't.  The statistics could have told us that, but, as Ehrenreich points out, no one really cares about numbers.  Her reporting bring a world many of us don't see very much to life.Great writing, a clear vision, and social conscience.  What's not to like?  I even didn't mind paying Barnes and Nobles' excessive price for the book to get it right away (sorry Amazon).
