4	1404950400	Even with the tv series out and its been so long since I read these books, rereading book one was great, good to get the original tone of these books back in my head. I like  Sookie so mich more again.
5	1404950400	I found this book a great read. it was recommended to me by someone who has watched the television series. I found it a fun and entertaining book. Great characterizations with enough plots and twists to keep me from getting bored and setting it aside. With this being the last season for True Blood, I am sorry I passed up the series since its inception. Of course, there will be reruns, but they almost certainly won't be in sequence.I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys lots of action and great characters.
4	1404864000	Great book
2	1404864000	Kept putting me to sleep.
4	1404864000	It was good but short!
4	1404777600	Would not have chosen this book as I don't care for vampire stories.  Was chosen for my book club.  Turned out was pretty good.  Won't give it five stars because I still don't like vampire books or movies.  Those who do will enjoy the book.
5	1404691200	Amazing :3 like the best vampire book I be ever read and now I'm just using up words love something
4	1404604800	Fast paced, good read. The author teases the reader by not revealing too much of the characters, ensuring the reader to almost immediately pick up volume two in order to find out more.
4	1404518400	Originally posted on The Canon! {http://canireadeverything.blogspot.com/2014/06/the-summer-of-sookie-dead-until-dark-by.html}ead Until Dark is a new type of review for me. Normally, I post about books that are new to me. My new summer project, rereading the Sookie Stackhouse series, is a bit of a shakeup blogwise for me.I read Dead Until Dark for the first time in 2010. M and I just started the first season of TrueBlood. While I was raving about it at work one day, one of my coworkers suggested reading the books together. We didn't make it far past the third novel, but I fell in love with the series.There was something that bothered me though...Harris was almost forcing her character to be dumb.No, I'm serious. It drove me crazy how often Sookie had to excuse herself for being smart and remind me that she was simply a barmaid. As a waitress of over seven years, I found that a bit irritating.However, on this read, I felt like there was a little bit of irony and humor in Sookie's constant refrains. I had never picked up on the vast amounts of sarcasm from this cute blonde telepathic waitress, but it kept me laughing on my latest reread. Instead of being the flat doormat that I had started to stereotype her as, Sookie's quiet rebellion came through in her words and thoughts as she acted out what was deemed appropriate by society's standards.Society's standards have a huge role in Dead Until Dark, something I also didn't realize before. The vampires' revelation of their existence brings up a discussion about civil rights and treatment of humanity (okay, humanity might be stretching it a bit to some, but work with me). The novel is threaded with themes of accepting differences and seeing past first impressions on both sides of the vampires versus humans society war. Bill and Sookie's romantic relationship is threatens the comfort levels of both sides. Their relationship develops deeper bonds than that of the common &#34;fangbanger&#34; (groupie), forcing both sides to reconsider their opposition. Bill himself is a mix of vampire and human: his personality ranges from tender, sensitive and romantic to hunger-driven and bloodthirsty. This combination forces not only the people of Bon Temps but the reader (aka me) to become more accustomed to the change in the vampire-human cycle.Bill and Sookie's relationship also gives Sookie the room to grow as a character. When the story opens, she is still somewhat of a child: nurtured by her loving grandmother and (semi) protected by her older brother, Sookie's biggest worry is one of her customers getting out of line at Merlotte's. By the end of the novel, I had fallen in love with this strong, determined girl that was learning how to fight for her heart's desires and grow strong against painful memories. She becomes a heroine that I want to cheer for, a strong if somewhat eccentric girl that is battling against forces she has no idea.The Rating:FOUR STARSWhy?I loved the depths of irony and humor that I missed the first few times around.The themes of acceptance and equality really made the story interesting.On the negative side, I wish Sookie would get rid of the word-a-day calendar...Recommended for:True Blood fans, those looking for a light, fluffy read or some paranormal mystery/romance.
5	1404259200	Excellent book.  The characters are quite engaging.
5	1404086400	oh Sookie...what shall we do?  Love this series, loved each and every book and am desolated now that there are no more!  Love the series True Blood too...but that is ending as well...but it was a great ride!  This is not a series for teenagers!  This is grown up stuff, despite the charming covers.  Lots of sex and violence (no visual nudity...have to watch True Blood for that!) and a lot of really great story telling in an authentic southern voice.  I've read and loved the Twilight series, Kim Anderson's books (similar themes), Laurell K. Hamilton's fascinating books...and Sookie holds her own. Got my husband to read these, where he wouldn't go near the Twilight books!  Charlaine Harris is an excellent writer with a hot imagination in that she thinks of amazing stories and makes them possible.  Now one of my favorite authors!
5	1404086400	I'm reading this again for the second time and its better than it was before. (I was stuck in twilight land) Read it....you won't regret it.
4	1403913600	Its a fun read. Its not a masterpiece, but its a nice piece of fiction. Its interesting reading it and then watching True Blood, as plot lines diverge in interesting ways. Now to read the second book and decide if I want to commit to reading the entire series.
4	1403654400	Watched the show, but heard the books are better. The book instantly pulled me in and I wanted to keep read reading to find out what was next. I fell in love with Sookie & Bill's love like I did watching the show. The book is funny, sweet, and compelling. It's not high literature out anything, but the series is going to get me through the summer & I'd recommend it.
5	1403481600	3.5-4.0 stars for writing Style and 5.0 stars for original and captivating story!I originally read this book in November of 2009 after falling in Love with the HBO Series "True Blood."  In fact, I ordered the 8 book collection from amazon which I still own. However, this time around I'm purchasing the individual ebooks and reading them via my kindle for PC app.  Reading ebooks is just so much more convenient.  After watching Season 1-6 on video on demand in preparation for the 7th and final season of True Blood, I emerged with an insatiable urge to reread the books specifically that is books 1 thru 10 or 11.  Sadly, by all accounts, the rest of the books suck royally and the series' ending was quite disappointing to most of us who had faithfully followed the series.  Nevertheless, and despite how the author decided to end it, this is one helluava addictive series and because each book resolves the main mystery contained therein there are no cliff hanger endings, per se, so one can stop reading the series at any point or at book #10 or 11, as I plan to do, and still have a thoroughly satisfying literary experience.  One caution to those who are reading this book because they are enamored with the HBO series.  The book and the latter are quite, quite different.  Many of your favorite characters, such as Jessica, do not exist in the books and many of the main characters in the tv series are not main characters in the books and, in fact, have very minor roles in the books. Also many thrilling events and interesting characters found in the literary series aren't used in the TV series.  Personally, I have no problem with the differences between the two but rather I love and appreciate each version, tv & literary, on it's own merits and in some regards actually like the books better than their counterpart on HBO.  Thus, if you truly want to enjoy the originality and uniqueness of this book and the rest in the series, I recommend that you set aside all, or as many as is humanly possible, preconceived notions and read this book, and this literary series, with a completely open mind.  If you can do this, I can almost guarantee that this will not be a series or a literary experience that you will soon forget. If you can not or do not do this, than you probably won't like this book or the this series.  And frankly, I think that would be a shame because most that are unable to follow my advice will miss out on a truly amazing literary series especially if you like vampires, shifters, weres and other supernatural beings mixed with intriguing mysteries, hot "beings and very original, even if a bit simplistic, human interest stories.Dead Until Dark introduces us to a world in which many of the creatures that go bump in the night and supernatural beings of legend and lore are openly, sort of, among us.  With a 25 year old, nave, virgin telepath as our guide and companion we are taken on a roller coaster ride filled with mystery, danger, adventure, romance, grief, suspense, humor, romance, some hot sex scenes, but not overly explicit, [and certainly not "erotica" genre level sex scenes, sadly, LOL] and some down right drool worthy, no make that mouth watering lol, human and supernatural beings.The writing style won't win any literary prizes and Sookie's voice does sound a bit immature but given that she grew up in a very small town, is a virgin, has lived a relatively sheltered existence, only managed a high school education, is a waitress and hasn't traveled  one shouldn't expect her to sound either worldly or Harvard & Yale articulate.  This is a girl who will be in hog heaven when she gets to go to Dallas, TX, for pete's, so clearly she's not sophisticated. (and that so isn't a diss on Dallas or Texas but she actually does go to Dallas later in the series) In any event, I thoroughly enjoyed this book, again, and will be reading book #2 as soon as I post this review.My recommendation: Buy it, Read it and Enjoy!
5	1403049600	I originally purchased this book before HBO started the series.  However, I lost it, so when I decided to re-read the series I had to purchase another one.  I really like Harris' style of of getting down and gritty, particularly when it comes Sookie's solcial interactions, which are usually difficult.  There's no sugar coating what's going on in Sookies world which makes it feel as though you're really observing the quaint little town of Bon Temps.
3	1403049600	I admit it. I started reading the books because I had fallen in love with the HBO show True Blood. And I also knew that the show started changing a lot of things after the first novel. But I decided to read the original story and decide for myself. I loved the plot, and Harris creates an interesting world for me to explore in her novel. But the writing... God it feels like a high school sophomore wrote this book. I understand that Sookie is a spunky 25 year old blonde so maybe it's supposed to be badly written. But it doesn't feel like I'm inside the head of a bouncy twenty-something woman. I feel like I'm reading the rough draft of a teenage girls fan-fiction crossover of Twilight and Pretty Little Liars, with a lot more swearing and sex. But like I said, I'm still a fan and will probably try and read the rest of the novels, even if I grimace at the syntax every few pages.
3	1402876800	Well... This book was good but very very slow. The climax, I felt, was dull. I kept just reading for something amazing too happen. Either way the book was okay.
5	1402704000	Great read.  Can't wait to read more of the series.  I have watched all of True Blood.  Very close to the book.
5	1402617600	Love my Amazon prime. Got to watch seasons 1,2, and 3 for free. This got me totally hooked on True Blood and the Sookie Stackhouse novels. I know my summer reading will be all vampires and the characters from Bon Temps. Great fun!
3	1402617600	I have watched the TV series and have that in my mind so I think that's why it's only a 3.It might have been higher if I read the book first.
3	1402531200	Just because I loved the series, it was interesting to see how the book was written out. Can't wait to read the rest
5	1402358400	This is a great book.  I probably won't retread the whole series, because I don't like some of them as much, but this one is well worth the time.
4	1401926400	Loved this,  would give 4.5 stars. Looking forward to reading the next book and I am watching the series as well. I am not surprised to see that they are not a like, yet pleasantly surprised that they are different and keep me guessing.
5	1401667200	I absolutely love the Sookie Stackhouse series. I am also a lover of the TV series TrueBlood. There haven't been many times where I prefer the movie/tv storyline to the books. BUT, this was one of them sadly. Other than that, the writing style makes this a really fun, easy read. Not to mention, SUPER addicting.
3	1401580800	Not as good as the show. The characters aren't as round as I expected they would be. Perhaps my judgement isa
4	1401494400	Charlaine Harris is one of my favorite Authors. The characters she comes up with are incredible. I never get bored reading her work. I have the entire set in paperback, but wanted it on my Kindle.
5	1400976000	I love thesebooks. Charlaine Harris doesn't waste words or have drawn out explanations. All of her writing is to the point and moves the story along. There is no &#34;word vomit.&#34; Every book she writes is interesting, there is never a dull or boring moment which is hard to do in 250+ page books. Even for there being so many book in the series, you will never lose interest.
4	1400803200	After reading the Twilight series, the Blue Blood series and Vampire Academy series (I haven't finished this series but it is great and unique), I was still looking for vampire books that would be somewhat the same but different.  I was rather tired of the teeny booper vampires (don't get me wrong, I loved them all) but I was looking for something a bit different.  Enter Sookie Stackhouse who is not an average teenager who goes around whining (think Bella).  She is a 25 yr old waitress with the special ability to read minds.  This talent might seem awesome to have but after reading this book and getting Sookie's thoughts on it.  I can certainly understand why she thinks of it as a disability instead of skill.  Just when she has given up, she meets Bill, a dark, handsome and mysterious vampire and she is immediately attracted especially since she can't read his mind.  However just when things start looking up for Sookie and her love life, women in Bon Temp are getting murdered and being small town folks some people can't help but suspect the vampire especially since the first victim has vampire bites.  The reason this book is different from other vampire books is because it is a mystery but lighthearted enough for those who are faint of heart.  Sookie is a spunky, independent character and I look forward to seeing where this series goes.  I have not seen the HBO series but then again, I prefer to read and let my imagination do the work rather than watching the show and then reading the book, but hey, that's me.  Based on the quirky first Sookie Stackhouse novel, i have purchased at least 7 others in the series.  Happy readings.
5	1400457600	My favorite vamp book of all!!! Besides Anne Rice. I love these books and the TV show. I bought the 6 book series on my kindle. I bought what i thought was the next book but it wasn't wish i could find the order in which they should be read Please n e 1????
5	1400371200	After watching every TB episode by virtue of buying the series, I just had to start reading the books. I LOVED this book! Definitely am going to purchase the series in eBook form and enjoy the characters all over again.
5	1400371200	I love this book....cannot believe I have not read it before! I will definitely read the rest! Unable to put this down! Had to finish it!
3	1399766400	Find Sookie Stackhouse to be an interesting character.  The vampire, Bill, even more so.  The story is a little strange, but it seems to workout in the end.  So much so that I've I started the second Stackhouse novel.
5	1399680000	A very inventive take on vampires. Warm southern heroine plus great combination of humor, real world mixed with paranormal, mystery and romance. I am binge reading the entire series as of this moment.
5	1399420800	A great read for anyone who has watched the &#34;True Blood&#34; television show.  Much more details as to how Sookie lives her life surrounded by all the supernatural things of her/our world.
4	1399075200	1st in the series. A very good read which I enjoyed reading. I would recommend the series to anyone who enjoys reading about vampires. The character are well developed, interesting, and the action is fast.
5	1398902400	Dead until Dark is the first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series. Most people have seen the TV series, TrueBlood, but the books an DB the TV show are dramatically different. These books(the whole series) are easy, quick reads, and Charlaine Harris knows how to capture your attention. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone 15+
4	1398816000	Looking for a quick read for a long car ride and this fit the bill.  Very enjoyable and suspenseful.  I never really guessed the killer until the end. I plan to read the rest of the Sookie Stackhouse novels, as well as other books by chaplains Harris.
5	1398643200	This is my 3rd time re-reading this series! Can't get enough of Sookie, Bill, but especially Viking Eric Northman! Love the whole series and Charlaine Harris style of writing!
5	1398556800	So much fun!
5	1398297600	After having read this book I was entranced with the simple yet complex storyline. Fast paced, with snarky commentary by the main character, Sookie. Great basis for the series True Blood, which is based on this series. Very enjoyable, keeps your interest, fast paced without getting repetitious.
4	1398038400	Sookie is fun and her life experiences are simply outrageous!  Book 1 is the tip of the surface!!!!!Really a fun read that will have you laughing and hook you into sookies mysterious life.
5	1397952000	I absolutely LOVE this book. I was not a huge vampire fan until I read this book. It pulls me in from the get-go. It has fantastic humor that keeps me going. The pace is at my speed and I absolutely love this book.The writing is fantastic and the characters are wonderful. I absolutely love Bill and Sookie together. Go team Bill!
5	1397692800	Loved it!  Very easy to read and the characters were very interesting.  Would suggest this for anyone who enjoys a good who done it
4	1397520000	I love the show and am now addicted to the book. I haven't finished a book in years so happy.
4	1397433600	I choose this title bc of my interest in the new books in this series coming out. It was not exactly what I had in mind, but overall a.good read.
5	1397260800	I've read the whole series twice, and here I am ordering them again because people keep borrowing them and not returning them!
5	1396915200	I listened to the audio format of this book and really enjoyed it. I don't think I would have given it as many stars if I had just read the book - the narrator (Johanna Parker) really added a lot to it, with her southern accent and tone of voice. Luckily for me it looks like Johanna Parker narrates all the Sookie Stackhouse books, or else I would have had to move to the eformat. (Big pet peeve of mine - when they change narrators in a series!)
5	1396742400	This was a book I purchased for my kindle, Not sure how this could be considered a good or bad purchase. Worked fine on my kindle and my iPhone kindle app.
5	1395792000	My love for Sookie and serial work all began with a neighbor lending me her books after she'd finish them.  I've never been the same.  Absolutely love, love, love the books way more than the show!  I was disappointed in the show and how it seems to taint Sookie's experiences and turn them into something a bit cheesy and trashy as opposed to what I feel the series and Sookie herself hold by comparison.  The chemistry between Sookie and Bill is great, but the chemistry with Eric, ooh, la, la!  No matter, this will always go down as one of the best supernatural reading experiences simply for the way that I love Charlaine's ability to take us into another world for however long.Her Grave Secrets series is pretty good, too!  Overall, I highly recommend her as an author in general!
4	1395705600	If you enjoy the show you'll enjoy the books. Some changes however the major plot is the same. Looking forward to reading the others
4	1395705600	Dead until Dark is the first book in the Sookie Stachhouse novels released by Charlaine Harris. I tend to be a horror/thriller/mystery reader but I figured since I read the 2nd one in this series I might as well read the first so I can get the back story.I will say it was an interesting and fast paced story. I find that a lot of times when romance is thrown together with horror or thriller it can go horribly wrong. I will say that this is not the case with the Sookie Stackhouse series as it stands. It not only is a whirl wind romance for Sookie and her vampire Bill there is more to the story which is nice. It was intertwined with the murder mystery without being overbearing or the main focus of the book. The character development was outstanding and the balance between all the characters was believable. This book gave enough information about each character and how they have met or interacted and made each of the characters that carry over into the next book in the series. The murderer was definitely a surprise which can be very hard to achieve, even some very well known writers can telegraph the killer in their books and not realize it. No writer is trying to give away the ending in the first few chapters and Harris achieved keeping the killer a secret until the end.
4	1395705600	I basically had two separate lives growing up. My main life involved my nurse mother, my pharmacist (legal) father, and two of my three sisters, all living a suburban life just outside of Charlotte, NC. My secondary life involved my biological father and his entire family which was (they&#8217;ve since departed) headquartered in Bon Aqua (pronounced &#8220;ACK-qua&#8221;), TN. Bon Aqua, thusly named for the water that locals lineup in their pickup-trucks to collect, with their empty milk jugs, flowing out of a rusted pipe in the ground. True story.I think that&#8217;s one of the reasons I like Charlaine Harris&#8217; Sookie Stackhouse series so much&#8212;b/c I can relate. I grew up hearing people say things like, &#8220;Sure enough, some sumbitch, scuse me, was sneaking around the house,&#8221; which is what Bubba (and by &#8220;Bubba&#8221; I mean ELVIS) said after he scared away the creeper from Sookie&#8217;s house. And I am intimately acquainted with the small-minded prejudices that seem to thrive in small towns. My family, for the most part, isn&#8217;t like that, but you can&#8217;t grow up in that kind of place without hearing some very politically incorrect terms and phrases tossed around. The kind of place where if you take issue with said politically incorrect terms and phrases, you&#8217;re either &#8220;uppity&#8221; if you&#8217;re a woman, or a &#8220;woman&#8221; if you&#8217;re a man.So it&#8217;s nice to see someone like Sookie&#8212;a college degree-less, &#8220;barmaid&#8221; who has been whispered and gossiped about her entire life b/c of her &#8220;disability&#8221;, come out ahead of her &#8220;betters.&#8221;Better than nice. I bloody LOVE it.No, Sookie didn&#8217;t go to college. Kind of hard to continue her education when she&#8217;s a telepath who can&#8217;t keep everyone else&#8217;s thoughts out of her head without extreme effort. So much effort that she has nothing left to devote to things like paying attention in class. And yes, Sookie is a SERVER (fortheloveofgod). I was too when I was in school. But Sookie is not an idiot, and though she does admittedly have her less-than-stellar moments, Harris ultimately creates a highly capable woman in her.So for the three (or so) of you that haven&#8217;t read the books or watched True Blood yet, Dead Until Dark takes place in a world just like ours. With one exception&#8212;the Japanese have created and patented synthetic blood, ending blood shortages for medical facilities, AND prompting vampires to come out of the coffin, so to speak.*snickers*The vampires took this action b/c they felt they would be well-received now that humans no longer had to fear for their lives (in regards to vampires). Vampires could subsist on the manufactured blood, protecting humans from their thirst.Things are rarely so simple.Incidentally, the vampires&#8217; party-line is that they are the victims of a virus that gives them the appearance of being dead for three(ish) days, after which they rise with allergies to things like garlic and sunlight, silver and . . . holy water . . .*snorts*They are received with equal parts fear and awe.So Sookie is thrilled when a vampire walks into Merlotte&#8217;s, the bar where she works, and sits in her section. And when she realizes that she can&#8217;t hear the vampire&#8217;s thoughts she is shocked and delighted. But just b/c she can&#8217;t hear the vampire&#8217;s thoughts, doesn&#8217;t mean she can&#8217;t hear the thoughts of two bar patrons intent on draining the vampire for his blood. When she follows the three of them out to the parking lot and rescues Bill (the vampire), she begins the series of events that lead to her romantic involvement a vampire.And the timing couldn&#8217;t be worse b/c someone is strangling women in Bon Temps (where Sookie lives) who are known to associate with vampires . . .The Sookie Stackhouse series by Charlaine Harris was one of the first Urban Fantasy series I ever read, and no matter how disappointed I was with how it ended last year, I don&#8217;t think I&#8217;ll ever stop loving Sookie. Dead Until Dark was the beginning of that love, and up until book 10 or 11 that love only grew (and 10 or 11 out of 13 ain&#8217;t bad). This series is one that every lover of Urban Fantasy should have under their belt, so if you haven&#8217;t already, what are you waiting for? You&#8217;ve got nearly a dozen books before you need to be worried about anything, and if you simply can&#8217;t accept the ending, I&#8217;m sure you can find a fanfic somewhere that will do your dreams justice. Don&#8217;t miss out on Sookie altogether just b/c she doesn&#8217;t live HEA with the crowd favorite.
5	1395619200	Dead Until Dark, is the first book in The Southern Vampire Mystery Series, a modern day classic paranormal vampire romance. Also known as the Sookie Stackhouse series, it spawned the highly successful HBO television series, True Blood, not to mention my love for audiobooks. It is one of my all-time favorite series!I devoured all thirteen books a while back so I decided to relisten to Dead Until Dark as my contribution to A Month of Romance Audiobooks for AudioGals.net. What a treat! Interestingly, listening to it again with the knowledge of what&#8217;s to come, I got to appreciate many nuances that I no doubt missed the first time.Please see my full review at AudioGals: www dot audiogals dot net/latest-reviews/reviews-by-gal/bjs-reviews/#.UzBJpVejIlI
1	1395446400	This book is absolutely terrible. It is painfully slow and just flat out boring. Also sookie was a complete b***h throughput the whole book. Also when sookies grandma dies who she was apparently very close to sookie just brushes it off her shoulder like nothing even happened. Also she treats her brother like crap as well. Overall she was just an annoying character. Also the book tries to be cool and adult by adding in a bunch of sex scenes every 20 pages and it gets old fast. I would not recommend you waste your time on this very poorly written and boring book.
5	1395360000	I admit it. I saw the television series first and I've collected all of the dvd's available and then realized it was based on a popular book series. Of course, I had to go out and get my own copies. It's amazing to see the similarities, but really dig deeper into Sookie Stackhouse's personality and life than a movie screen can ever explain. I love it! There is a winning combination of humor, dark violence, murder, mystery and just plain sexy fun. It's brilliant and holds my attention from the very page. I loved reading this book and can't wait to get to the others.It feels like the series is one book for each of the 12 hour long videos, or an entire series. It's a great story.
4	1395273600	This is a quick read. I watched the true blood series first, and so far, the series sticks close to the book's story line.
4	1395100800	This wasn't what I expected. I thought it'd be much more like Twilight. It really wasn't.I got engrossed in this very quickly. It was a fun and easy read.Something I liked was how she took the time to note that Bill is very old, and she gave him a back history, a dead wife and kids, and that made this feel more believable (in context). It made for richer characters than, say, Twilight. It endeared Bill to me. I didn't fall for him and think he was oh so sexy or anything, but I really liked him. He doesn't apologise for who he is or change for anyone, which gives him an edge, but he's also not heartless. He's a bit complex. It's decent.
5	1394582400	It's the last book of the series and Charlaine writes it as if she is tired of the characters and the story.  Plodded along to the end.
5	1394064000	I loved the book. Charlaine Harris is wonderful. The book is so much better than the HBO series True Blood.
3	1393977600	book would have gotten more stars, but after watching season one of True Blood, there were no different twist here-so I you haven't seen the series, this is the book for you.
5	1393113600	I have to admit first off that this book was not really my cup'o'tea at first. I actually stopped reading and started reading again a few times before I really got caught up in it. When it finally grabbed my interest though I was hooked. Luckily I didn't start reading the books until maybe 2006, so there were plenty to read one after the other.Anyway, I would be very comfortable in saying that this is the only book of its kind. There are plenty of vampire/supernatural books out there these days, but very few of them are as original as the Sookie Stackhouse series. Charlaine Harris takes extreme care in researching the topics she's writing about so everything seems a little less made-up and a little more rooted in a possible reality. In her later books she does an extremely fine job of integrating aspects from ancient legends that are actually accurate (with her own little twists) to the originals. I appreciate this on many levels.Another thing I appreciate is the main character, Sookie. The girl's got some personality. THANK YOU. I'm so used to picking up books where the main character (if female) is almost completely flat and dependent on the characters (mostly the male ones) that surround her to make her even remotely interesting. As far as Sookie is concerned, I think she's pretty vivacious and interesting all on her own.Aside from the fact that Sookie has a pretty sparkly personality, and a kick rear talent, she's not your average size 2, goddess beautiful, horribly clumsy and stupid but entirely charming leading lady. Oh, no no no. As depicted, Sookie is a size 10 sunworshiper with an attitude and a backbone. Charlaine, you had me at SIZE 10.Of course, TV land decided that a size 10 was too obscene a size for viewers and chose a frightfully slender Paquin (size 2) to play the lead role in the HBO series TRUE BLOOD. Now, don't get me wrong, I think they chose a GREAT actress to play Sookie. I love Paquin as Sookie, I just sometimes have trouble climbing over the fact that it was apparently necessary to shrink the main character a good 30 lbs for the sake of TV.Anyway.The book. Right.I was very impressed with this first of the Sookie Stakhouse books, and in truth it's only gotten better. Harris' book has matured into a series that I feel connected to. It's like Sookie is my best friend. I wait VERY IMPATIENTLY for the Sookie Stackhouse books every year. It's just one of those series for me. I don't care if everyone starts to hate it after book #37... JUST KEEP WRITING SOOKIE STACKHOUSE BOOKS CHARLAINE! I'll read 'em. That guarantees you at least one reader. That's plenty, right?READ READ READ!
5	1393113600	loved this book it kept me reading and reading I have recommended it to some family and friends to read
4	1393027200	Really enjoyed as another take on vampires,  unexpected happenings made me no want to put it down.  Fixing to order the next book in this series..
3	1392940800	Be forewarned.Are you bored to death and/or looking for reading that absolutely will not compel you to stop at any given moment?  Try a Sookie Stackhouse novel.  Are you wanting an escape from reading things that are literary or compelling?  Have you been reading mysteries that actually require that you remember what happened in earlier chapters?  Then, this book may be for you.Naturally, if you're a True Blood fan, as I am, you'll read it for that reason.  You will be so glad that a different creative team brought the novel to the screen and that so many things were changed.The book is written for ease of reading and certainly can't be written much above the 12th grade level.  That's cool.  We all need a little easy reading once in awhile.  And vampires are always interesting, right?  The character of Sookie in the novel is interesting for the first book, sort of.  None of the other characters are fleshed out because...it is all about Sookie and Sookie, despite her mind reading trait, is not exactly perceptive.  In fact, she often tells us that she avoids further conversation with someone or peeking into their mind because she needs to get back home and sweep the floor or whatever.  She constantly has excuses, despite her perilous existence, for why she is not at all interested in asking more questions.  So, unlike her Grandmother, Sookie can meet a 100 year old vampire who fought in the Civil War and be not at all interested, even one little bit, in his former life, the war or anything that shaped him.  Heck, she's so interested in her own sexual responses (to every male in the book, apparently) that little else enters her consciousness.Sookie has a Code, though.  The Code of Sookie.  The inaneness of the Code of Sookie in this modern age (it sounds more like the code of people born circa 1950) is one reason I gave it 3 stars.  Apparently, this Code will never disappear and it will be embraced by an entire new generation of mostly female readers.  Yay, Sookie.  The Code is:  I really need a Boyfriend.  I really like sex, though I know it's naughty.  And my boyfriend better not ever cheat on me.  The end.Naturally, since all of Sookie's boyfriends are bad risks, this Code means that she shuts off nearly every relationship to any form of...well, we can't even say &#34;intimacy&#34; as such an advanced concept never enters Sookie's head.  One thing is certain, the two Stackhouse youngsters (Jason and Sookie) are no rocket scientists, and while Sookie is highly critical of her brother's apparently dull nature, she does not impress me as being very far up on the intellectual ladder, herself.  It's odd, therefore, to learn that she has a Word-A-Day calendar (that's a device to permit the author to allow Sookie to use words that otherwise would be incongruous - such as Sookie saying &#34;incongruous.&#34;)This literary equivalent of slumming has its uses, though.  I read it in the middle of the night when I was trying to get off sleep medications and it worked very well.  So I recommend it highly as that sort of thing, and I'm not trying to be sarcastic there.  Sometimes you just need something like this.Unfortunately, as others have noted, as the series goes on...the parts where you laugh at loud at Sookie's silly take on things get shorter and then non-existent and even the events are repetitive.  Sookie attempting to slog through her other romances, after Bill, is a nightmare of missed connections, paying more attention to what people are wearing even when dire circumstances (you'd think) would dictate a different approach, and so on.Harlequin romance with vampires, but with no change of heroine.
5	1392940800	Great, fast read. I will continue to read the rest of the series!  Mystery and love story all in one!
5	1392854400	Werid but good! I think it will be a good series! Looking forward to the next book! Glad my friend referred it
5	1392854400	love the story, can't wait to read the next book.  Really enjoyed the development of the characters and can't wait to learn even more about them as the series continues!
3	1392595200	Ok, so we had a local used book store going out of business last August and I saw this book on the shelf and I knew I have been wanting to read it because I heard so many good things about it and I thought, hey if HBO is making a series (True Blood for those who do not know) out of it it should be good&#8230;right? Wrong. I am giving this  book 3 stars and I believe that is being nice. It just wasn&#8217;t good. For one, it is supposed to be a romance between Sookie Stackhouse who can read minds and a vampire, Bill Compton, I did not feel any love between the two. Charlaine Harris tries to write his character as old fashioned but he seems to have no personality what so ever. I think there is one part that has him speaking more than like 5 words and that is toward the end. The spend maybe a total of like 2 weeks together and he says he loves her and Sookie says she loves him but the next minute she doesn&#8217;t want to be with him? UGH!! If I want to read an on and off again romance I would read a teenagers facebook page. Usually romance books like this has some great sex written into them, I think anyone&#8217;s real life sex stories would be TEN times better than the one&#8217;s in the books. For two: There is barely any character development, Harris introduces you to all these people but you never really get to connect to any of them. Even the main character, Sookie all I basically got from what she wrote was that she can read minds and she is not intelligent, I do believe it is in there about 10 times throughout the book. Lastly, there is murders going on throughout the book and they are trying to figure out who it is, these parts at least got a little interesting and I think the only reason I could finish the book. It did keep you guessing up until the very end who murdered everyone and was Sookie going to die too? Other than that I think this book was a bit of a waste of time for me. Thank goodness it did not have a cliffhanger so I will not force myself to sit through another book in the series. I think I will be donating this book to the library unless a friend of mine would like to read it. It is not a book I feel like keeping on my bookshelf any longer.
2	1392336000	I'm glad I finally finished this book. I really didn't like it, which is shocking because I usually love vampire books. The only reason It's getting 2 stars instead of 1 was because of the ending. It bumped up it a star. Here are the things I didn't like about the book:1) I really did not like the main character, Sookie. She complained throughout the whole book about her &#34;disability.&#34; It annoyed me to no end. It also didn't sit well with me how Sookie acted [spoiler removed] It felt like there wasn't real emotion in the book.2) The dialogue between Sookie and Bill didn't flow in my opinion. It seemed choppy and forced. I love dialogue so when a book's dialogue isn't that good it's going to have a low star.3) Also when Sookie and Bill had sex on her grandmother's bed and having sex in the cemetery  is really disrespectful. After I read that I almost didn't want to pick up the book again.4) Until the very end, I wasn't on the edge of my seat wondering who was killing the waitresses. It didn't make me want to bite my nails or put the book down. Mostly, all I felt was blah.The only thing I actually like about this book was the ending. From page 240 onward, it was good, made me want to turn the page to see what's going to happen. I wasn't expecting who the actual killer was.  But other than that, I wasn't feeling this book and I'm glad it's over.
5	1391990400	I am rereading this book after years. I had forgotten how much I enjoyed Ms. Harris's writing style.In this book Sookie, a mind reader meets a vampire and is thrown into his world. Considered a freak her whole life by the town, Sookie thinks she might relate better to vampires. Not quite.I think this book was well written, well thought out and the plot moved along at a nice pace.
5	1391817600	I have watched &#34;True Blood&#34; from the beginning...the books are filling in some blanks.  I know I will enjoy reading all of them eventually!!
5	1391731200	Can't get worse! I love that its not full of foul language,  This series will keep me busy for weeks.
5	1391472000	The book came in great condition, I don't think if it was left in the bottom of an ocean it could have been damaged lol The wrapping on the book was insane, my husband could barely pry it open. I was very glad to see that considering some postal companies can be very careless when it comes to items as delicate as books. I was surprised to see it come in such perfect condition as good as new, if not better! Five stars for the companies great shipping, awesome condition of their used books, and the friendliness in general of the sellers.
5	1391472000	Simply Flawless, original, fast pace, and great character development, I'm currently reading Dead in Dallas and it's everything I could expect from Charlaine.
4	1391299200	It's a little slow, but obviously so much better than the show. Can't wait to start book 2. I definitely recommend it.
4	1391040000	Good quick read. Happy to read more of the series and to find out what happens to all of the people.
3	1390867200	Very hard to rate because I watched the tv show. Only a few things were different in the movie. Tara is not in the book.
4	1390780800	Even if you have seen the first season of the show it helps fill in the story. A good read.
5	1390694400	I can't believe I waited so long to start reading the book series. But, I think that being a long-time fan of the show actually made the book seem even better to me. The book was different, but just enough so to keep my interest. It seemed to add a new dimension to the characters that I already loved from the show. I definitely like &#34;True Blood&#34; better, at least for now, but I still have a lot of books in the series to get through, so who knows. I will say that enough was kept the same where if you know the plot of the TV show, you'll know the plot of the book. This book corresponds to season one of &#34;True Blood&#34;, though as I already said, they certainly aren't completely alike.
3	1390176000	Liked it. Quick read. Gets you craving the next story. Simple writing style that makes me crave something with a bit more meat to it the next round.
5	1390089600	This series is my favorite series of books I have ever read! Sookie Stackhouse is the new best thing! I love this book!
3	1390089600	I had a hard time getting into it because Sookie went in so many directions. All in all, I enjoyed it. I will read another to give the series a try.
5	1389830400	OK, so I resisted reading these books even though I knew a few people who were reading them and loved them. I like the HBO series and just figured the books would be hokey. They are fantastical but given the subject matter, how could they not be? Even so they are really fun, really easy to read and extremely entertaining. The characters are very likable and I'm pleased to note that there are a lot of differences between the story lines in the books and with the show. I think I read the first one in a day and a half and am now onto book three. I highly recommend!
5	1389744000	A fun, fresh, light read, and a great introduction to an addictive series. The main character is likable and there is a lot of new ground covered for a paranormal mystery/romance.
5	1389484800	I am a True Blood fan and decided to see how similar and/or different the book would be from the series.  I missed the character of Tara from the show, but on the whole I enjoyed the book very much and plan to read more.
5	1389398400	Its been awhile since I read Sookie Stackhouse series except for the last one. I'm a hugh fan of Charlaine Harris. I recommend this book.
5	1389398400	I, of course watched the HBO series first, but this first novel was so great! I loved it more than the first season of TruBlood. I definitely plan on reading the rest, no doubt!!
5	1389312000	Amazing start to the series I can't wait to start the next one. A must read for fans of the show who hadn't read the books before watching the series.
4	1389225600	The characters are not complex and at times Sookie herself is a tiny bit annoying. However, it's light reading that keeps one's attention and can be read at intervals as the story is not complicated.
5	1389139200	Great condition and arrived before the Holidays. Almost better than new spine, excited to read the book that HBO made famous Thank You!
5	1388966400	Fell in love with this series, after watching true blood. But ended up loving the books more. Especially Eric Northman.
2	1388880000	The series does such a good job that the book is underwhelming. Usually if you find a good movie or series, the book will be that much better, but maybe they are a victim of their own success.
1	1388880000	This book is just plain terribly written. Leaden dialog, a universe that makes no sense, and a plot that mostly consists of unconnected events happening in a sequence.
5	1388880000	It's hard to pinpoint exactly what I like about this book specifically, because I read the first 10 in the series back to back.  But I think that fact alone says a lot for the first in the series; it obviously grabbed hold of me and pulled me in!  It was refreshing to read this genre without it being young adult, and that's what first attracted me to the books.  I really like Charlaine Harris's writing for the most part.  It's easy to read.  This isn't a crime like some readers might think.  Her stories are character driven and funny.  These aren't phenomenally well written books that are really saying anything, but they aren't trying to be and honestly that's what makes them enjoyable to read for me.  Sometimes that's exactly the kind of book you need.
5	1388793600	I was pleased to find that the plot and screen play for the television show True Blood had stayed very close to the original book.  I love the show and am thoroughly enjoying the book.
4	1388620800	I've gotten back into reading and thought I'd start out by reading some of the TV shows i watch that are based of books. I also like to get more details to the story that you don't get from watching TV. Was a great intro book and loved seeing how it differed from the show. Will end up reading the whole series
4	1388534400	I liked a lot of the changes that they made from the book, but also how they didn't change a lot of things.
5	1388275200	It's a Great read!!!! I'm hooked!! Can't wait to read the whole sequel! It is Better than the show on HBO.
5	1388016000	Like the way Ms harris gives you a sense of becoming friends with the people in her stories. Good read!
5	1386892800	Can't get enough of True Blood and Sookie! Best books ever! Can't wait to read the next book! Bring in the next season of True Blood too
4	1386892800	Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress in Bon Temps, Louisiana. A waitress with a special skill - she's telepathic. Sookie finds this as more of a disability than a skill and tries to block out the voices of all those around here. That is until the day a vampire walks into a bar and she learns that she can't hear anything from him at all. It's joy to discover that she can't read her mind. However, what starts as saving the vampires life, turns into a dangerous game when someone starts killing those women that form relationships with vampires. As Sookie and Bill try to discover the killer before he goes after Sookie, Sookie forms a close relationship with Bill and learns more about everything supernatural.I think you almost have to have lived under a rock not know about these mysteries featuring Sookie Stackhouse. They have also been turned into a tv show, called True Blood. I read this series many years ago and I decided I wanted to re-read them so I could finish the series. I believe I read the first 7-8 mysteries, but I'm re-reading now in the hope of finishing the complete series. Well I'm listening on audio, as opposed to reading the books, which I did the first time.On re-reading I discovered I loved this book as much as I did originally. This was really my first foray into urban fantasy back in the day and having read a fair few urban fantasy authors since then I still enjoy Sookie Stackhouse's vampire, Bill, and the other vampires in the area. I also like the introduction of werewolves, and of course later on more supernatural creatures.These books aren't strictly cozy mysteries. There is a mystery to solve, but the romance is a lot more sexy than I usually see in cozies, but if you like a bit of a edgier, sexier mystery they are a lot of fun. I plan to continue on with the series, in audio format, until I reach the end.I listened on audiobook and given how much I liked the books the first time around, I was a little nervous. Would it live up to my expectations on audio? How would it compare to Anna Paquin (who plays Sookie Stackhouse on the tv show)? Well Johanna Parker does an amazing job. She has the Louisiana accent just perfectly, and she very much sounded like Anna Paquin. As she narrates the rest of the books, I'm looking forward to a very enjoyable audio experience with her.Recommended for fans of supernatural mysteries with a edge.
5	1386460800	Sookie in the books is better than Sookie on the television show and the books seem to have somewhat more well-rounded characters.
5	1386288000	Just like the series on HBO, Dead Until Dark is the base upon which True Blood was created. As the HBO series goes on it doesn't follow the books quite as much.
5	1386028800	First off, if you're a fan of the HBO series based on Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series, be advised that the show deviates in some big ways from the books, making both the novels and the show great and unique experiences. Harris creates a fantastic cast of characters that debut in Dead Until Dark and you'll find yourself immersed in the little world of Bon Temps, Louisiana in no time. The voice of the main character comes through clear as a bell, so much so that you may feel like you're reading /her/ mind. Without giving too much away, I just want to say that you'll find a whole mess of comedy and drama and mystery in this book and the rest of the series; it's a delightful jumble. The past decade or so has seen a sharp increase of supernatural books, television, and films. Dead Until Dark and the entire Sookie Stackhouse / Southern Vampire series is one of the stars of that meteoric rise.
5	1385683200	There's no room for improvement in this well-written book. Charlaine Harris is truly a gifted writer. The characters are all true to life even though this is in a fictional setting. Although I am blind, I am thoroughly entertained throughout the audio book. Thanks!!!!!!!!!!!! Joanna Parker is one of the best voice illustrators I have ever listened to. She truly makes this book pop and sparkle!!!!!!!!! ThanksBrenda
4	1385510400	Red neck vampires, how could you not love it? These aren't dark gothic vampires, but they aren't the sparkly vamps of Twilight either. They are business savvy modern vampires ready to take on the world. Throw in a werewolf or two, a few elves, witches, shape-shifters, and one psychic main character and you have Dead Until Dark. Yes, this (these) book is what I would classify as pure pulp. They are entertaining from the first to the last page, but little else. If you are looking for thought provoking or edifying you'll need to give this one a pass. If you are looking for a quick, funny, sex-laden read go no farther.
4	1385424000	I'm a big fan of HBO's hit series 'True Blood'. When I found out that they were in the making of their last season of the show I got sad. My friend had told me that the show was based on a series of books by Charlaine Harris. This book is very much just like the 1st season of True Blood just as promised, however, there were a few things in the book that wasn't in the show. I also enjoyed reading it from Sooki's narration. It gives you an insight that the show just can't experess. It was a fun read.
4	1384992000	I'd been dying to read this book (excuse the pun) for awhile now, because I thoroughly enjoyed True Blood, the TV series on which it is based.I wasn't exactly disappointed, but I was hardly blown away. The story started out very strong. We are introduced to Sookie, then Bill, then Sookie's grandmother. Sookie saves Bill, then Bill saves Sookie, then Sookie and Bill have lots of sex. LOTS! It's pretty erotic, but nothing I haven't read before, and not nearly as graphic as the television show. I was thinking that this is shaping up to be a really good read.Then at around 70% or so, things start to take a turn for the worse. The typos, which had up to that point been barely noticeable, because to get more numerous. Sookie hears things and either takes them completely in her stride (the story is written in first-person, by the way, from Sookie's perspective), or acts as though she already knows, when she obviously doesn't and there is no explanation given for why she would. It's almost as if the author was rushing to get the story finished.Towards the end (from 90% or so onwards), things start to get better again. The ending was quite satisying, although the fight scene at the end is a little unrealistic.I don't think it was worth the hype, but I will most definitely be picking up the next in the series, nonetheless!
1	1384646400	I'd give it zero stars if I could--terrible book; waste of time and money.  Makes you wonder how these things get published.
5	1384214400	Loved it. I love all the sookieStackhouse books. I enjoy every minute of it. Best series of books ever. Bring on the vampires.
4	1383523200	I had a lot of ups and downs with this book. A few times I almost stopped reading it. I just couldn&#8217;t really get into the dialogue or the story that much. I felt like it redeemed itself by having a fast paced ending. Sookie is a waitress that can read minds, which I thought was pretty cool. I really did like the whole idea of vampires integrated into society. I thought that was pretty cool. I guess I felt like I never fell in love with Bill or much of the characters. I think the two most fleshed out people in the book were Sookie and Jason. I actually thought Jason was an interesting character. I&#8217;m sure the author has a lot more about Bill in the future books. Probably my absolute favorite part of this book was when I found out Sam was a dog. I seriously laughed my head off! I don&#8217;t know why that part was so hilarious to me, I think because it was such a strange curve to the story. I did really like Sam too. Overall this book was pretty good, but not my favorite.
4	1383523200	Fast shipping and the book was in Okay condition i think its also a very good book so far. I think it was a good deal personally and the price was cheap.
3	1383264000	Entertaining, but I'm not sure if I will continue the series. I definitely prefer the show to the books. Fans of the show should give the books a shot, but it just wasn't my thing.
5	1383264000	This was so much fun!!  Never having watched &#34;True Blood&#34;, I wasn't sure what to expect. But I was so entertained, it was fun to read.  After finishing this one, I read the second Sookie book.  I plan on reading more of the books just for fun!
5	1382745600	readers will like the vampire series as much as I do. vampires are a very good read all shold read this book. I plan to get her other books in the series too.
4	1382572800	It's easy to get swept away in the twisted love affair between human and vampire.  By no means a high brow read, but fun easily likeable characters keep you hooked and the whodunnit plot keeps the pages turning.
5	1382572800	My nephews have been after me to watch True Blood which I believe is on HBO. We do not subscribe to that channel, so we never watched it. About a month ago, my nephew told me that the TV series was based off the books. That immediately grabbed my attention. I am an avid reader, so I went to my Kindle and found book 1 Dead Until Dark: A Sookie Stackhouse Novel. I have only read chapter 1, but let me tell you that I was hooked from page 1!! Charlaine Harris writes in a way that I immediately connected with the characters. I was swept away from the get-go. I had to review this book now even though I haven't even read most of it because it is that good! The story flows effortlessly, and you will not want to put it down till you get to the end!
5	1382486400	its a great book, good series came in good condition don't know what else to say I bought the entire series and leaving feedback for me is the hardest part.
3	1382227200	Dead Until Dark is the first installment in the bestselling Sookie Stackhouse Novels by Charlaine Harris.  In this book, we are introduced to Sookie, as well as Bill the Vampire.  Sookie has special powers, in that she can read minds, which can be quite irritating to her at times, and since she knows just what most men are thinking, she chooses to avoid them and not date.  Most people in the town consider her a little crazy.  When Bill first comes into Merlottes, a bar in Bon Temps, Louisiana where Sookie works as a cocktail waitress, she discovers that she cannot read his mind, and becomes interested in getting to know him.As the story unfolds, Sookie waits on Mack and Denise Rattray (Sookie calls them the Rats), a couple she despises, not only because they are trash, but also because they don&#8217;t tip; it is rumored that they have served time for  &#8220;Vampire Draining,&#8221; which is illegal. When they try to drain Bill and take his blood to sell on the black market, they are attacked by Sookie, who uses a large chain from her brother&#8217;s truck, injures them, and causes them to flee, thereby saving Bill&#8217;s life.  When they return, they attack Sookie, intending to kill her.  Somehow she survives, and learns in the morning that a tornado has gone through a small part of the town flattening the Rat&#8217;s trailer and killing them both.  Of course she suspects that Bill murdered them, but it can&#8217;t be proven.A young girl, Maudette, is found murdered, and subsequently, Dawn, a co-worker of Sookie&#8217;s is also found murdered in the same way; both girls often hung out with vampires, so it is first suspected that the vampires killed them.  The puzzling thing is, however, that both died of strangulation, which is very unlike vampires.  Sookie&#8217;s Gran is also murdered, and Sookie&#8217;s brother Jason becomes the prime suspect, since he has the morals of a jackrabbit and slept with both of the murdered girls; he also wasn&#8217;t on the best of terms with his grandmother.The book starts out light and humorous, and most readers will probably think that this is a lighthearted cozy.  However, that is only at the beginning, and while Sookie and Bill try to solve the murders, the suspense builds; in fact, there is tension throughout the entire novel and it is evident that this is absolutely not a lighthearted cozy.  Sookie and Bill have close calls and are almost killed.  Unfortunately, there is a fair amount of sexual innuendo, and quite graphic sexual scenarios; one not only gets the impression that there are no morals in Bon Temps, but also that whenever the author runs out of ideas to move the story on, she just simply adds more sex.  Oxymoron comes to mind, since the characters are light and fun &#8211; make believe - but there are serious issues that don&#8217;t really go with the mood set at the beginning of the book.Harris&#8217;s writing is good, however, evidenced by the fact that she won the Anthony Award for this novel.  It was also the novel that the HBO series True Blood was based on.  For fantasy thriller lovers who like characters with special powers, this book is a good, quick read.  It is not for young adult readers, however, due to the adult content.  Fans will be able to enjoy Sookie Stackhouse and her vampire boyfriend, Bill in several subsequent novels, as well.This book was purchased with personal funds and no promotion of the book was solicited by the author or publisher.
2	1381881600	Having been forced out of the land of Westeros until spring next year, I was looking for a show to ease the aching void, thus I was turned on to True Blood by a friend. I haven't lived under a rock for the past six years, but in all that time I just never got around to watching the series (shame on me right!?) Well, I was well and truly "glamoured" by it and came to deeply like and care about the residents of Bon Temps (and fell in love with Eric!) Once I had devoured all six seasons, I didn't want to let go......so what better way to continue living in that world than through the books. So I recently purchased the first eight books in the series in a boxed set, and set about burying myself back in Bon Temps. Boy WHAT A LET DOWN!!! Granted, most of what occurs in the beginning of the TV series is laid out in black and white on the page (and I find myself liking Bill more in the books than on screen), but sheesh.....how did these books get published in the first place? The woman CAN NOT WRITE to save her life. People picked on poor Stephanie Meyers for her lack of literary flare, and while I agree she isn't perfect....who they should have been sneering at is Charlaine Harris! At times reading her words (especially the ones that come out of Sookie's mouth) are like hearing nails on a chalk board. I am going to plow through the series, but I seriously hope her writing improves the further I go....because after just two pages I almost said "To hell with it!" and closed the book. I also think the TV series set a better tone with the introduction of Tara early on (she isn't anywhere in the first book, and I thought she was supposed to be Sookie's best friend?) Also the suspicion of Jason being the murderer was done much better on the show. Overall the first book is rather flat and "bloodless" no pun intended. If I had read this before watching the show, I doubt I would have finished it or even given the show half a chance. As it is, I am glad I watched the show and love it......the books I fear (based on the first one,) are going to be a test of patience and resolve.
5	1381881600	Could not put down! I loved every word! 5+ stars  can not wait for the next book in the series
5	1381622400	I love all of the Sookie books. They are one of the best series I have ever read. Can't put them down!!!
5	1381363200	I picked up the book after enjoying several seasons of HBO's True Blood, and while there's a lot of nudity and sexual situations in the live action series, for some reason I wasn't expecting such graphic depictions of sex in the novels.  The author uses polite words so I think it's what is now considered a romance novel--graphic descriptions of sex, but using PC words rather than the crude ones outright porn books use.  I thought the first book covered the first season of the show fairly accurately, with a big difference being the confrontation at the end, which happens at night, and with fewer people involved than were in HBO's version.  That's all I'm going to say because I don't want to spoil it for anyone who hasn't read the books or seen the series.Since the book is written in the first person, I could often "hear" it in Anna Paquin's voice, and I have to say I think she captured the spirit of Sookie fairly well, as do the other people chosen for the HBO series.If erotica bothers you, don't pick the book up or watch the HBO series, but if you don't mind it and like supernatural tales, you may really enjoy this book since I think Dead Until Dark is MUCH better written than Laurell Hamilton's action-turned-porn Anita Blake series.
5	1380758400	I like my vampire books. I have come to the Sookie Stackhouse books quite late and I picked up this book not sure what to expect.This story is pure fun. There is no other way to describe it. I have enjoyed reading lots of other books but none have been as fun as Dead Until Dark. It's well-written with an engaging plot and in Sookie, we have an interesting heroine. I can imagine being friends with her.Pick this book up and read it. It's a lot of fun.
5	1380758400	I started reading these books a long time ago.  I moved and my books didn't get to move with me.  So, I am replacing my collection and reading them again as I go.
4	1380499200	I really enjoyed this story. I'm not very fond of Bill, but Sookie is such a great character. The plot is interesting and you can't help but like Sookie.
5	1380412800	I enjoy all the Sookie books. They are fairly fast reading and very entertaining. Really can't go along with the True Blood series when you get further along.
4	1380153600	I'm going going to make this short and to the point. This book is definitely different than the series. The whole time I was reading it, I compared it to the HBO series True Blood. I can say that I do really like the book and can't put it down. The only thing is that I wish the sex scenes were more descriptive than what they are. I enjoy a little naughtiness every now and then, but I get very disappointed when the naughtiness doesn't come to complete fruition. It's like the author shies away from the sexy details just when the stuffs getting good. It is completely disappointing after seeing the series and feeling the sexual tension. I don't know if the other books get more descriptive, but I can only hope so.
3	1379980800	My review from GR:Let me start by saying that I was stoked when I got these books on an online yard sale site. I got books 1-10 for thirty bucks and they hardly look used. I've never watched True Bloods but am going to start once I read a few of these. Upon reading reviews from bloggers, I really thought the romance was going to be more then what it was. I'm an avid erotica reader so I was pretty excited about that but didn't get it from this story in particular. Maybe it'll get better, maybe not but the book was still good none the less.I found myself confused at some points during the book, almost as if the author wasn't detailed enough about what was going on.... But maybe it was just me not paying attention well enough. My biggest pet peeve when reading a book is being able to predict what happens. Harris most definitely threw me for a loop many times throughout this story... Sometimes I would expect just plain dialogue between two characters but was struck with action that I loved! The author did a great job with the book in this aspect, a great way to keep the readers reading.I did thoroughly enjoy this book and will continue to read the series. The reason for the 3 stars:*My confusion... Like I said, this could've just been strictly me. I didn't read any reviews stating others were confused which is why I have a feeling that it was my stupidity... Lol. I also still had a lot of questions once I was finished with the book, which I realize is the whole point of a series... But I had WAY too many questions. I think the author could've done a better job addressing/detailing/explaining some things throughout the story. (Example: Sam's power. The ability to turn into whatever animal he wants/views.) I didn't understand the specifics behind that at all, but maybe it's coming.*Sookie and Bill's love is just ehhhh... cute. I wanted more of a mature love from them. Doesn't seem like they are really serious and with the amounts of time they spend apart (other then during daylight, of course) you would think that Bill would include her in his trips, and so on. Sookie spent a lot of time on the fence between wanting to be with Bill and not. They told each other that they loved each other, which is great, yet I didn't feel that strong love connection through the characters as a reader. It felt sort of high school to me.*As I stated before, I want EROTICA (once again, a preference for me personally- nothing the author did wrong). I wanna feel hot and bothered after reading an intense love/sex scene and I wanna be compelled to turn the pages and see what happens in the future of the characters. The romance in this book grabbed me, started sucking me in, then dropped me. Like I said, I was looking for something more mature.*Don't get me wrong, I thoroughly enjoyed this book but I think my expectations were way too high from the reviews and such that I have read. Hadn't I read these reviews prior to purchasing the series, I probably would've given it a higher star rating. Granted, the reviews are generally based on the whole series- not just this book in particular. Usually the first book in the series has some dull points in it because the author has to go to great lengths to introduce the characters and write lots of details about them and how they tie into the series/story. So with that being said, I WANTED to love this book like I do my other 5 star reads and I just didn't get it in this one. BUT I'm still very eager to start the second book in the series, so the author did succeed in catching my attention and drawing me in. I think it'll provide me many good hours of reading and enjoyment.^In my opinion, those are the basic flaws. Nothing substantial, nothing making me wanna throw the book down and put it outside with the trash for the garbage man to pick up. I hate nothing more then getting a book/series in PB/HB (they are more expensive than ebooks) and hating it, feeling like I wasted my hard earned money on something I'll never wanna see on my bookshelf at home, ever again. I'd rather pay someone to take it away from me then keep it- it makes me that mad... Lol. That was absolutely far from the case with this book. Although I'm a tough critic, I do present satisfaction when it is earned (my opinion, of course) and I was more then 'just satisfied' with this literature.Concluding, I almost ALMOST gave this book 4 stars but it's just not quite worthy of such for me. I wouldn't recommend this book in particular to others BUT I would recommend the series- solely on hearing others rave about it. I've said this before and I'll say it again- I really wish Goodreads did half stars because this would be a 3.5 for me. So since they don't, when deciding on whether to give it a 3 or a 4- I didn't think 4 was sufficient.Thanks for reading my long, honest review! :)
2	1379894400	It took me four goes to finish this book. The first three times I didn't get past the first twenty pages.My mother got me the first eight books in this series after the first or second season of the TV series came out because I loved it. It was upsetting that that I had this 20 page issue with the series. I had such high hopes, but I just couldn't seem to get into it. Finally the guilt for having a bunch of books someone else put effort in to get for me made me do it. This was years after I received them, and I read about six books between me finishing this. I don't normally read even one other book if I'm reading another.I think the only thing that has put this at the two star mark for me is that I have read other books that are far worst, and I'm trying really hard to not compare it to the series so much. But even if I could completely succeed in separating them there are still a number of things that bring this book down.The writing style is is descriptive but not in a way that has a point. It tells you needless details that don't enhance the story and even distract from it. This kept me out of the book the entire time I was reading.The next thing is that the characters are completely unrelatable and boring. I really didn't think Bill could be more of a bore, but I'm amazed to see the series made him better. They did this with Sookie as well surprisingly enough. The name `Sookie' really suits her and her thoughts are all over the place. I didn't connect with her at all on any level, didn't feel she was actually sad when her Grandmother or her cat died. I think the fact that she didn't have any friends at all was a serious issue. The only was you got to know how she was feeling on any level was from her talks with boring old Bill or from her scattered brain. In the series they introduced Tara (I don't know if she shows up in the rest of the books yet) to try and fix this issue of Bill being the only person Sookie talks to on a deep level, though I dont know if the way she talks to Bill can be called deep, it mostly just ends up being poorly phrased sexual talk.I don't know if Sookie having a friend in the book would have made a difference however, because the dialogue is completely unrealistic. No one talks the way they do. A couple of lines that bothered me the most would have to be a few of Bill's:`Bill seemed adept at reading the symptoms. "Make love," he suggested. "Make love to me."`"Don't cry," he told me. "Sookie, I have to tell you unwelcome facts."`These could be explained that Bill talks differently because he is so old and from another time, but I'm pretty sure that no one talked like that. Ever. And that doesn't explain the rest of the characters dialogue.I'm hoping the rest of the series is better.
5	1379635200	Mwhahahahaha, finally - finally! - another vampire series that's not just good, but great. This cute and cozy mystery packs quite a whollop in it's short form, with a marvelously different story, genuinely warm characterization, and amusing injections.Sookie is a delight to read about, as she's young and fiesty, holding a cute curiosity about the 'dark side', cursed with a bad reputation of being a freak. Weighed down by the small town's perception of her, she lives at home with her Grandmother and works at a local bar. Not your traditional heroine so far, it's even odder when she can read minds, but hates the ability as it only brings her trouble. Bill the vampire is the typical irresistible type, yet thankfully speaks in normal dialogue and not old-world fancy Vampire lingo. Eric the vampire appealed to me strongly, and I hope to see more of him in upcoming books. The same goes for Sam the bartender. You have to love series where you fall in love with all the main players :) There is also the introduction of a 'bodyguard' that's so over the top it's borderline ridiculous.The two together form a cute pair, but not so cute to where it's obnoxious or too light to be taken seriously. Don't get me wrong - there's plenty of seriousness in this book. From murder to two terribly sad events, there's also the bizarre vampire groupings. It's not as bloody as The Anita Blake series, but it does have it's share of violence.The mystery was a twisted one, but there are not many clues and traditional mystery footprints. The culprit did surprise me, but I was so engrossed with the rest of the story I didn't spare much mind to figure out the villain anyway. Will that put off routine mystery readers? Maybe. The story is involved with many sub-plots, the bulk of it romantic, with emphasis on dysfunctional family, Sookie's feelings of being different, obstacles from outside forces, and then the mystery of the murders. With a book only 260 pages long, that's a lot to cover, no part able to dominate the story's time by itself. Generally I prefer books where several things are happening at once, so it clicked with me.On the romance side, it's not the sort of book where hero and heroine fall deeply in love and forget everything else as they set sail toward a sea of eternal bliss. They're plagued with chronic problems and hurdles to cross, internal doubts of the nature of their pairing, issues about the future they're choosing to ignore - for now - as they settle down to explore each other. The two match in a sweet way as the vampire searches for a home, weary from travel, and the telepath yearns for peace with someone whose mind she CAN'T read.It's hard to think of negatives with this one, as it was so enjoyable. After it was over, I'm so determined to dive into the sequels I'm becoming obsessive. But to be objective here, even if it did have a dark tone, some may be turned off by the light and cute world. Sookie doesn't seem very consistent in her thoughts about sex and love, either. At slight times her southern way of speech gnawed a nerve, especially with the phrase, "He's gonna know I'm not normal." I don't know why, but reading 'gonna' usually pains me. Comparisons to Hamilton are inevitable, being that there are vampires considered legal, but I see plenty of changes here to make it stand as a completely different series and not another copycat.If you can't already tell, I loved this story. Addictive characters gave a much-needed boost to a dying sub-genre that needs more exploration before it's buried. Paired with a clever mystery, the relationships are as addictive as the villains unveiling.
1	1378684800	I was disappointed when I received my book inthe mail.  I thought I had purchase the book with the original cover design.  I will not be ordering anymore books feom Amazon.
3	1378512000	Another good novel by ms. Harris. Can't wait to read the next book in the series.Charlaine is my new best author.
5	1378252800	A very fun ride with vampires and werewolves and faeries, oh my! A really fun ride with Sookie and the Bon Temps gang.
3	1378166400	I had to say first that I watched 'True Blood' season 1 before reading this. In fact it my was impatience with Netflix waiting for season 2 to arrive that I finally decided to finally read this book after all this time. Other 'True Blood' fans had urged me to read this so... I am glad they warned me of the difference beforehand. That does not mean that I was not comparing it to True Blood the entire time. I could go ahead and list the differences and comparisons and make a handy dandy chart but that's not what I am here for.Harris' writing style was bollocks. If I had never seen a picture of her, I really would had thought of a woman between 15 and 25 was the author of this book. It's not that sophisticated. It's kind of writing I'd expect to read from a high school student's creative writing paper. When you read the immature writing (for something based on 'True Blood'; I know, sorry sorry), it was sad.I felt like Harris wrote her outline for 'Dead Until Dark' and then did not really flesh it out. Events happened one right after another. I know you're thinking  well, 'duh'. But it was more literal than that. Harris didn't flesh an event out, it was bang, bang, bang. But at the same time she gave too much detail. I really didn't need to know every time Sookie shaved her legs or what kind of sandals she was wearing today. It was a bit odd.The only character that was allowed to be more than one dimensional was Sookie and that was because it was written from her point of view. The other characters, fantastic characters like Sam and even Arlene, weren't given a chance and it was a pure shame.Sookie and Bill had no chemistry. Just to make it clear, love Bill/Sookie from True Blood. In this book they barely know each other and kept dancing around one another. They broke up at least twice, I believe. Sookie was more afraid and Bill just had the hots for her. That's what I got out of their relationship in 'Dead Until Dark'. I hope they will grow stronger as the series goes on, but who knows (there's Eric after all).Perhaps Harris really had a good idea but failed to completely execute it. I am glad HBO and Alan Ball saw the potential for this series and built it up and made it utterly fabulous.I'm curious where the series will go from here with the differences with it and 'True Blood'. Mind you, I don't think I will read 'Living Dead in Dallas' until I am finished with season 2 of 'True Blood'.
1	1378080000	First, I just want to say that I have read every one of these books and I fell in love with them instantly. BUT as soon as Trueblood was released all Charliene Harris saw was dollar signs and gave up on her writing and her fans. Please do not waste  your money or time on this.  Ms. Harris has taken advantage of her fans and does not deserve to have new ones .Just in case you don't believe me, before you purchase this book read the reviews from the latest book Deadlocked.
5	1377907200	I was just finishing the HP Mallory Jolie Wilkins seriesFire Burn And Cauldron Bubble, A Paranormal Romance (Jolie Wilkins)and wanted something new to read and started on the Sookie series.  This is a great read!!!  Can't wait to get more of them.
5	1377734400	I LOVE this series!  I keep intending to go to the library to save some money but when I finish one book I can't wait to start the next so I download it and become engrossed all over again!
5	1377734400	I was surprised that for the most part the TV series has followed the book.  Couldn't put the book down.
3	1377648000	This is a great story, a quick read and interesting characters. The only downside is it reads like someone in middle school wrote it. It's honestly hard to get over how poor the writing is which is why I haven't read the second one yet. I feel like the structure of the book and the wording is just poorly done. But like I said if you want a quick read and good story then it's worth it. I listed to about half of it on audiobook during a long car ride and it was better as an audiobook.
5	1377475200	This book was such a page turner! It definitely one of those books that once you finish it you are so grateful there are more books to the series so the story doesn't really end!
5	1377388800	I first fell in love with Sookie after watching HBO series True Blood Season 1. Season 1 is much like book 1 but similarities stop there. I love both books and TV show but remind myself TV is based on ratings. The book is fun and characters lovable, despicable and colorful. After spending much of my life in deep south I also love the subtle southern humor.
4	1377043200	I have watched the True Blood series so was a bit dubious about reading the books. But this one didnt disappoint. I think it is better than the series. Sookie is actually really likeable as opposed to annoying. I would recommend this book for sure, I read it really quickly.
2	1376784000	I enjoy the True Blood series and I was looking for a good beach read, so I decided to grab Harris's first book and get started.  I won't be continuing the series.My biggest complaint is that I thought the writing was not very good.  Slightly above Dan Brown level.  The premise is definitely creative, and I am somewhat curious to know how she developed the characters in the books, since I have heard there is a substantial difference from the series, but not curious enough to read through this entire series.  It just is not very enjoyable to me. It is hard to find books that combine interesting plots with prose that really draws you in, but I will just keep looking.I do, however, have a greater appreciation for the portrayal of Sookie in the series. I was always slightly annoyed by her demeanor, but reading the books, I now see that the portrayal of her personality is dead on with how she is described in the book.  Good job Anna Paquin.
5	1376611200	I started watching the True Blood series and loved it! So I thought I would read the novels for its inspiration. And I was so glad that I did. Loved the first novel and I've already started reading the next!
5	1376352000	IF you're like me and you love to read books. This series is for you. First book will suck you in. I think the author has 14 published under this series. Totally worth the purchase
5	1376265600	This one was hard to find since it was the first in the Sookie Stackhouse series and I was very happy to find it.  Delivered right on time, great book, couldnt' be more pleased!
5	1376092800	I expected this to be decent, but was surprised to find it rather complex and leaning-toward-subtle in its handling of the issues involved with the concept of a world with "out" vampires. Very good main character, not stereotyped. Most other characters are more simplistic, but the story was handled so deftly (pacing, descriptions, dialog) that didn't bother me.
4	1375747200	I am a huge true blood fan. And have enjoyed this book as it sticks closely to the show. The show has really stayed true to the novels.
5	1375574400	The book so far follows the first season to a tee! However, I am not that far into the book so we will see what the rest has in store
5	1375315200	Awesome can't wait to read the next book absolutely great book to read completely different from the show love it
4	1375315200	loved it instatntly and got hooked enough to read them all.  I would recommend the series and easy fast reads
5	1375228800	For a year or so , I have passes up on this whole True Blood stuff.... but latey I been in the mood for something new and this book was a good start. Even if your not a fan of the show , check outthe book... It wont disappoint.... It will should to keep you up all night.....
5	1374969600	Actually pretty close to the t.v. show, very easy read. I quickly bough the next book after finishing this one.
5	1374624000	I watched the first two years of the TV series before I realized that these were based on a book series. I Kindled this first one in the series, and fell in love with Charlaine Harris' style of writing and her characters.Be warned that except for most of this first book, the TV series mostly follows a few main themes from the books and does not adhere to them exactly.I have found, tho, that I prefer the storylines and characters in the books over those in the TV series, and have to say that I probably won't watch any more of the TV series than I already have.These are great, just-plain-fun reads!
5	1374451200	First of all, my review is for the audio version. Also, I had seen a few seasons of True Blood before checking out the books. Since the recent seasons have tragically become non-nonsensical and boring (bad bad BAD writing- way below the actors potentials), I turned to the books.This first books really is excellent. It's better written than anything I've read in a long time when it comes to fiction. I was really surprised to find that her writing really outdid the show. Now I understand Sookie so much better, and get why she acts the way she does in the show.It's not too long, not too short, doesn't leave a lot of holes and makes me want to read the next one.The audio version is really excellent too. The right reader makes a big difference and they picked the right one. I always suggest audio versions, so I'm biased, but either way I loved this book.
3	1374364800	I probably would have liked this book much more if I didn't love True Blood so much. Knowing who the killer is took away much of the mystery for me, so I couldn't really get involved in the book. I still thought it was very entertaining and worth reading though!
5	1374192000	Awesome book!!!so imaginative. The tv series follows the book to a T:) can't wait to read the next book. Good stuff!
5	1374019200	Love this book great book nice book why must this be nine teen words I don't understand why I must
4	1373846400	...and have to admit that, even though I don't read a lot of fiction, I enjoyed reading this, and intend to finish the series.
4	1373760000	4.5 starsCharlaine Harris' first Sookie Stackhouse novel is a strong start to an outstanding series. If you've watched True Blood on HBO but haven't read the series, I would definitely recommend reading the books. They are very different from True Blood, but just as good.Dead Until Dark is a murder mystery with romance, friendship, and family relationships all in the mix. I like the setting of Louisiana, it's a good mix of reality and fantasy.As is common with the first novel in a series, this book introduces a lot of characters and gives us a lot of background information. It doesn't move as fast as the other Sookie Stackhouse books, but is still a quick read.  If you read this book and don't find it to be very gripping or compelling, give Living Dead in Dallas, the second Sookie book, a try.  Like so many others, this series gets better with every book.I've read all of Charlaine Harris' books, including the Aurora Teagarden and Lily Bard series, and find the Sookie novels to be her best work. I just don't like her other heroines as much as I like Sookie.Just one gripe:Why did Sookie's parents name her Sookie and give her brother the normal name of Jason? Sookie is a weird name!The Best Thing About This Book:Sookie is a strong character who knows herself.  She stands up for herself and knows what she wants.  That makes her endearing, in my opinion.
5	1373760000	Haven't read a book in forever..great book! Never thought I would  like a vampire story,can't wait to read the next!
4	1373760000	This book and the series are entertaining/interesting enough for me to finish reading the series without remorse over time and money wasted.
5	1373587200	read all of these books and enjoyed them so much that I have passed them on to friends and family
5	1373500800	Kept me wanting to read more each time I let the book down. I highly recommend it. Going for the next book!
4	1373414400	Easy, fun and entertaining. Seems a bit like the Twilight Series, but less serious. I am onto book two now...
1	1373414400	I really didn't enjoy this. I made it about 50 pages before I just had enough of Sookie. I enjoyed the show and thought I give the books a shot. I couldn't stand being in that girl's brain.
5	1373241600	Very good read! I loved the entire series! A must read! Highly reccomended. I didnt put it down once i started!Also, very fast read. Easy to follow.
5	1373241600	Packed with Sookie Stackhouse adventures, misadventures, and romances with the undead or shape shifters.  WHat's not to like?  Great entertaining read.
4	1373241600	An excellent read for those looking for an unusual southern romance. I can not wait to see what comes next for Sookie.
5	1373155200	Since my father has retired he has taken up reading and this book was a gift for father's day.  He said he loved the book.  He and my Mom are big true blood fans and have all the seasons, so he wanted to read the books.  He's on book 2 already!
5	1373155200	Great read, cannot wait to start the next one. I have watched all the True Blood seasons so I had an idea of what was going to happen but I still enjoyed reading it.
3	1373068800	I enjoy some if the new mythos created for this world filled with vampires...but the relationship of Sookie and Bill was a little too sex driven. I was hoping for more depth.I did love the character of Bubba *wink.wink*
5	1372982400	I first bought this when there were about 3 books in the series and loved it. I am now going back to revisit the series. The book has captivating characters and a well placed plot.A word of warning however, if you expect this to be &#34;just like True Blood&#34; then you will be disappointed. As good as be she may be this is a much better paced read
5	1372896000	Great book! Keeps you interested the entire time. Looking forward to reading the entire series. Highly recommended. You won't be disappointed.
3	1372636800	The book is pretty good. I've read better and I have read worse. Book is kinda slow. If your looking for an easy read go for this book!
4	1372636800	Good book! I love the tv show so I have been wanting to read this series. Sookie and her vampires.....
3	1372550400	Entertaining light reading which is even more enjoyable if you are a fan of True Blood. It was a fun book for melting time off of my commute.
5	1372464000	I lost my original copy and had to replace it. I love the book and enjoy Charlaine Harris as a writer.The replacement I got wasn't made as well and had a cut/fold mark on the on the cover. I will not buy anything from that seller again.
4	1372464000	I decided to read it after watching the HBO series for a few years.  I actually like the differences in the story lines.
5	1372464000	I just finished the book, and was not disappointed. I started reading the series after watching the TV series, and it turned out to be as good as I'd hoped. Much recommended! =)
2	1372377600	I started this series without knowing its television counter-part.I also read the next books AFTER this one, so trust me when I say this is a weak starter book.I liked the rest of this series much better. I didn't like the way certain characters were introduced and I wasn't exactly thrilled with the main character either.For those of you on the fence about continuing this series: do it. The rest of the books are so much better.I will say that the series doesn't really stand well on its own, so read the books in order. At the same time, each book in the series is wrapped up well, so you don't feel obligated to continue if you do not wish to do so.Each book in the series is better than the last. So please do not put this series down based on book 1. I promise you that it gets better.
4	1372204800	I loved this book.After much bitterness & delay, I finally decided to give this vampire series a try, & I'm very glad that I did. I don't think I'll start watching True Blood, but I definitely want to read the rest of the books.I found that this book had a nice balance of vampirism (without too many overly cheesy moments), mystery, murder, & sex. It was darker & more violent than I had anticipated, but I mean that in the most positive sense. The fact that it takes place in Louisiana/New Orleans was an added perk (since it is my favorite place to visit). My only real complaint is that it ended far too briskly, & now I must finish the series. However, a long time vampire fan myself, I am happy to add this to my bookshelf.I recommend it for vampire fans who'd like a bit more of a bite in their novels.
5	1372118400	LOVED it! Like watching the shows in much more detail & extras...recommend for any TRUE BLOOD fan.....now onto the next one:)
5	1372118400	This first book was so incredible.  I finished it so quickly. If you love &#34;True Blood&#34;  you'll thoroughly enjoy the books so much more!
5	1371859200	I know it's an old series, but I could not put it down. Its really worth catching up with! Can't wait to see what's next!
4	1371686400	As a Woman who grew up in the South, raised by Southern women, I was pleasantly surprised by how well Sookie captures the essence of some Southern women. Some things are completely fine, like sleeping in the soil, but to do it without clothes on...well!  :)
4	1371254400	I really enjoyed this book, though it ran very close to the series I missed key parts, like the addictive V, and Tara. But mostly Jason was different.
5	1371168000	I understand I am repeating myself in the reviews of the Sookie books, but I honestly do love them all. It took all I had in me to put them down & go to sleep! addictive in the best way!
5	1371168000	Review by Cassandra from Book TalkSookie Stackhouse is a cocktail waitress in a small Louisiana town. She has an unusual gift, or in Sookie's eye's, a disability. With a life without many thrills and few friends, the one thing Sookie has anticipated experiencing finally walks into her workplace. Vampire Bill has just moved to town and through some violent experiences, gets to know Sookie. Unfortunately for the couple, women are being murdered. Women who are hooked on the pleasure of vampire bites. The main suspects are two men who are close to Sookie's heart. Will her relationship with Bill survive the troubles thrown their way? Will she lose one of the men she loves to a murder conviction? Will Sookie be able to accept her gift and use it to find the killer before he attacks again? Will Sookie be one of the victims?When I first heard of this series I was a little skeptical on whether I would like it or not. Luckily for me, I picked it up and fell in love. Sookie is a down home country girl with unique skills who only wants to enjoy her life. Her love life is non-existent, that is until the darkly handsome Bill strolls into it. Their relationship seems doomed from the beginning but they keep finding a way to try to work it out. This book is an awesome and interesting read with some romance thrown in with mystery. I would recommend this book to anyone who is a lover of the paranormal romance genre. Warning: some violence, graphic details, and adult situations :)
5	1370995200	Captivating, quick read. Keeps your attention throughout the whole book. Now I need to watch the true blood hbo tv series.
5	1370822400	I'm not a big sci-if fanatic so to love this book as much as I do was really cool! Sookie is just so down home country girl who gets a taste of what the world has to offer by meeting a vampire. I liked the romance and the darkness to it that wasn't too dark that I got all depressed reading it. Great series! Loved it. But I have to say if your a fan of the HBO show this is the only book that the show follows along with. So don't expect that by reading the book you'll have inside scoop on the future seasons. This is to be enjoyed entirely on its own as a separate story and that's the way it should be :)
5	1370736000	I am a True Blood fan and I never thought I would enjoy the books (as much if I had read them first) after watching the show but I LOVED this book. I am starting the second book right now! Work will be long tomorrow.
5	1370563200	After the disappointing ending to the series, I went back and re-read the original. The difference is night and day. This first book is so full of life, and so well-written, With such great characters!
5	1370476800	Book 1of this series, this story could have easily stood on its own as a complete single publication.  This novel is in a genre all its own.  It is a delightful mix of paranormal, mystery, suspense, and romance.The characters are so well written that you can feel what they feel, root for them, laugh and cry with them.  Who hasn't felt like an outsider?  Worried about finding real love? Suffered from the loss of a loved one?  Add to that a serial killer out for blood.  The result is a page turner you won't want to put down.A journey of growth and self discovery begins with this book and continues throughout the series as Sookie learns to accept her differences and find love and friendship in the world.
5	1370476800	Loved it can't wait to read the next one. Couldn't put it down. Great characters. Very well written. I am hooked.
5	1370390400	Working my way through the series and the books at the same time.As much as I love the TV series, it is always better to get inside the character's heads through the books.Sookie has a wonderful sense of self, but still has insecurities and doubts.  Charlaine Harris has a beautiful way of writing.I'm sure it won't take long to make it through the series, I'm HOOKED.
5	1370390400	This book is mirror for mirror of the show. Not like that's a bad thing it features all the characters of the show and some different like bubba who is like one of the best book characters in my opioun. This book features alot of bill and sookie love. And is actually kinda explicit
5	1370390400	I read this book based on watching the television series. I have read the entire series at least 3 times. The characters really come to life. After reading this book, I found myself wanting to live in the world charlaine harris has created.
5	1370217600	Good read. Not too long. I watch the series on TV, so I totally am into this and I love the story
5	1370131200	After watching true blood I wanted to get an inside view on the characters- the show follows the book for the most part with a couple of different characters. It was a fun easy read that I would recommend to and true blood fan!
4	1370044800	Very good book as all from charlaine harris, she seriously knows how to define her characters and take you to all those places she wonderfully describes.
4	1370044800	This book is full of action and romance!!! It keeps you reading it and not want to put it down.
5	1369699200	Love this book and the whole series.  Great characters and story lines.  Can't wait to get all the books in the series.
5	1369612800	After watching True Blood for years, I was anxious to get my hands onto the Sookie Stackhouse series. I certain ally am glad I did. Great read!
5	1369526400	Very good book. Explains some of what I missed when true blood first came on television. Tara Isn't in this book, I was disappointed about that.
4	1369440000	Well-written and full of action. The mystery keeps the reader guessing and wanting more. I had a hard time putting this down!
3	1369440000	Sookie Stackhouse is a barmaid living in a small town in Louisiana. She has a special talent - she can read minds - that tends to get in the way of her social life, aka her dating life. This all changes when Bill Compton enters the bar. He's a hot looking guy - AND she can't read his mind because he's a vampire.There was a time when I wanted to read all the urban fantasy books in the bookstore, so I pretty much picked up the first book in every series. Then I realized that there were others already reading urban fantasy, that there was good and bad urban fantasy and that I needed variety in my reading or I would go nuts. This is how I bought "Dead Until Dark".So it's been sitting on my shelf for a few years. Recently, I needed something light-hearted and funny as a break from the Anita Blake series (which is Intense, Deep, Meaningful "Urban Fantasy"). Someone suggested this series, and I found an audiobook version to read."Dead Until Dark" is fun and unassuming. It isn't going to blow your mind away with wonderful writing (aw, hell no!), intricate plots (definitely not), or a completely unique take on the vampires thing, but that's not what I wanted. I just wanted something FUN. Something CUTE. And that's what this book was to me.The characters are pretty good. I liked the Southern charm and flavor in them. OK, what I REALLY liked was how Sookie was not the only female in this entire world and she was not the only GOOD CAPABLE female in this world. After reading Anita Blake's increasingly sexist series (in which the only woman who can do anything and is NOT evil is practically Anita Blake) along with several other books composed mostly of a male cast, I was pleased as punch to see several other women in this book. We have Gran, Sookie herself (Duh), Arlene, Kenya, Portia, and more - all of these women were competent (in their own ways), and I didn't have to hear Sookie's constant ragging on them for how weak and pathetic they were in comparison to her.One thing that bugged me, character-wise, was the on-again, off-again relationship between Sookie and Bill. They get together and break up like twice in this book. Talk about moodwhiplash! I am OK with Sookie moving on or not wanting to be with Bill (he is dangerous after all, being a vampire), but can't we have a couple of books with them together before busting them apart?The mystery was lacking; I really feel this book is supposed to be more of a cozy, like Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder. Which is OK for what it is; definitely don't go into this expecting a complicated, intricate mystery that will take Holmesian skill to solve!As for Harris' writing...it's okay. It's not particularly bad per se, even if at points I went into spasms thinking she was borrowing some of Laurell K. Hamilton's favorite words, but it's not noteworthy.If you are tired of reading intense urban fantasy where characters are dark and grim and Deep and Meaningful, then give this book a shot. It's funny, fun, cute - and doesn't require much brain cells for reading.Brought to you by:*C.S. Light*
1	1369353600	I'm going to be honest and say that I never actually had an interest in the book that inspired True Blood.  Sure the show was a hit and its been around for years, but by the time I heard of it, I was already over the whole vampire thing. But then I read an article about how people were going cuckoo because she was ending the series, they were literally threatening to kill themselves or the author herself. Like are you serious? I had to read it if it was that good. It wasn't.My face when I read that article.There were so many things wrong with this book. Sometimes I just wanted to slap the author and then other times I wanted to slap the characters for being so annoying and vapid, but I bought the book, I had to finish. I'm gonna try and focus on the main reasons why I hated this book. Don't want to ramble about all the little stuff.I knew to expect some "light trashiness" as a follower reviewer had put it. I was fine with that, I even looked forward to it. Some trash is fun, but this was far from "light." This was like someone buying a bucket of black paint and calling it white. Do you know how often Sookie read peoples minds just to find out how often they envisioned them having sex with her, even worse, her with her brother! I wanted to gorge my eyes out.I swear I'm not a prude. But god I hate reading about characters who come across a problem and instead of fixing it, they have sex. There were people literally clinging to Bill to prove that vampires are amazing in bed. But you know what? From what I read, they aren't. There was so much tedious sex I wanted to jump in the book and say, this is how it's done b*tch, get with the program.I'd also like to point out that Sookie clearly wasn't that desirable. Sure every reader pictures the character differently but the clothing does help influence the way a character looks in my mind. The girl could not dress. A denim, mini, jumper dress with yellow bandana hair clip does not say f-able to me. And neither does the tweety bird night gown that Bill go absolutely nuts for. Get a clue Sookie. Stop reading Country Bumpkin Fashion, and open up Vogue.I swear Sookie had split personality problems. One moment she was this meek, psychic, waitress that just wanted to get through the day. No plans for the future other then meeting a vampire. Meets said vampire, decides to be badass and defend him. Later she is back to being meek and frightful. Then BAM, she was this "sexy", confident women and she owned her psychic ability. Just as suddenly she is scared and wants to feel normal again and decides to avoid all vampires. After a day she changes her mind and is making deals with them. Without me elaborating more just imagine a fish flopping side to side every other page.Every emotion felt empty in this book. For example, Sookies grandma got murdered and how did Sookie feel? Well, I read that she was crying but honestly there was no emotion there. Just a bunch of words that vaguely conveyed how she felt.  There were no feelings of despair when a vampire almost ripped off her arm or when she found her cat had been killed. She was somewhat upset that Sam, her boss, was watching her get naked. She should have felt vexed, but nope, it passed as quickly as it came. The problem was that the moment Sookie felt something it was over by the turn of a page. Sometimes they came back, but it was like a fleeting breeze on a placid lake.I could go on and on about how much I didn't like this book. I could type out the entire list of annoyed notes I had made. But I'm not going to because I am so happy to be done that I want to forget it. I hear the tv show is epic, but I won't be tuning in any time soon.1/5
5	1369267200	If you have never read the Sookie Stackhouse books I would definitely recommend them to you, up until book 9 or 10. After that don't waste your time or money. The first books of this series are magnificent and I burned through them all in days! The later (especially the final book) are not worthy of being associated with this series. Yes I wanted to know how it all ended for Sookie, but now that I do I wish I didn't. I should have just come up with my own conclusions.So in short, the beginning of this series is great, but stop before the last few books or it leaves a bad taste in your mouth.
5	1369180800	I learned of these books when I was introduced to the show, True Blood. I LOVE THE SHOW!! Books are just as great!!
4	1369180800	I just love these books.  Being from the south the pictures she paints are vivid in my mind. And who doesn't like hot vamp sex.?!?
5	1369180800	First off, I loved this book. It's a great start to an amazing series. I fell in love with the main character immediately. I live in the south, so right off the bat I felt comfortable with her. She's sweet, and almost innocent which is strange since she's twenty-five. With such a strange but yet creative name, who couldn't love such a character named Sookie? In a world where Vampires have come out into the open, to announce their existence, is quite surprising. Imagine the thought of watching the local news, and seeing an actual Vampire on the television. I questioned at first, why they would come out, even though it never truly explains. In some ways, I made my own answer. The world was changing, it was getting harder to hide. They had no other choice to come out, which makes complete sense. Humans were not as gullible as they used to be, they couldn't just blame a person getting their blood drained on the town drunk. (Even though we both know how many times people have been blamed in the last century for things that don't ever make sense.) So, two years later, Sookie finds herself actually wanting to meet a Vampire, and what do you know, it actually happens. He walks into the bar, 'Merlottes,' where she works, and it's basically described in slow motion. From there he gets attacked, but Sookie rescues him, because she is so intrigued by this strange but attractive creature. From there, many young women get murdered, and lots of other exciting things happen. Overall, it's a great book. I recommend it to anyone who loves mystery novels, and lots and lots of Vampires. Definitely try it out.
5	1369094400	Absolutely love the whole series and I'm sorry to see it end ... But what a ride its been. Thanks Charlene
5	1369094400	They did a great job following the book to the tv series plot. The book is short and fast reading, if your a True Fan there are some differences worth the read. All in all I'm ready for book number two.
5	1369094400	I can't say this enough times: I love Sookie. I love how Charlaine Harris portrays women. People who make good and bad choices, and friendships, and relationships. I love that Sookie stands up for herself, even though sometimes it's hard, and it hurts.
5	1368921600	Loved it!!!!! I seen true blood but the book is so much better... I literally feel like I'm in Sookie's head
5	1368921600	I'm not a big fan of vampire stories, but this has changed my attitude completely.  The characters are marvelous - I could actually relate to them as living people.  The touches of humour in the story was an excellent way to make you want to meet every one of them.  Scarey, charming and funny - what more could you want in a novel?  Can't  wait to read the next one.  Well done!!!
4	1368748800	I was really happy to see how closely the series True Blood follows the book.  It is fast food for the brain, though, no doubt.  At times, the dialog seems a little forced, and the whole &#34;he loves me, he loves me not&#34; situation between Sookie and Bill smacks of Twilight, but the action is a good distraction.
5	1368576000	Just like the show, but different enough to make it interesting to read if you basically know what happens. Good summer, beach read.
4	1368403200	I was planning on starting these mysteries for a while and bought the first book couple months ago, but I guess all the talk about the last book being out finally made me read it. I can see Sookie's charm, I thought the set up was interesting and her vampires were sure intriguing, but my god was the mystery kind of clumsy and a little out of nowhere IMO. I liked the book overall, but not sure if I will continue with the series.
3	1368403200	I love the True Blood series on HBO, so I assumed that I would enjoy the books that inspired it. I won't say this book was terrible, but it was not very well written. I find Harris's writing style to be choppy, interrupted, and unrefined. It is not a smooth read. However, if you are able to look past these qualities, you may find that you enjoy the fantasy-mystery novel that she has created. I enjoy the originality of the series, but it eventually gets quite repetitive. I would rather watch the show because it has a much better style of storytelling, and it is more interesting than the books.
3	1368316800	While this and the next 5 0r 6 books in the series are ok the series then goes downhill to the extent that you will be pissed you even wasted your money and got invested in this. It probably has the worst and most disappointing ending to a series i have ever read..Save your money and don't bother with this book because you will end up disapointed
1	1368144000	Don't start this series it's a waste of money! It drags out forever then has a horrible ending. If you want to read a series that worth it try another author this one will only disappoint. If you don't want to take my word for it just go read the reviews for Dead Ever After, the final book. For those looking for something good to read in a similar genre try book written by Katie McAlister, Kersley Cole, Gena Showalter, or Jacquelyn Frank all are amazing authors!
1	1367971200	*No plot spoilers*DO NOT MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE AS THE REST OF US AND INVEST YOUR TIME AND LOVE AND MONEY INTO THIS SERIES.I know this review is supposed to be for Dead Until Dark, which I did like. But this series has 13 books and the last 6 are absolute trash. If you have any sort of taste at all, and arent easily entertained you are gauranteed to be disappointed by them and feel let down. Check out the ratings of book 13. Nearly her entire fanbase was pissed. The plots of the books towards the end are feeble and cliched, she even reused a few plot devices from earlier books. There are many many inconsistances. Information from pervious books is dully repeated over and over. Harris herself said she couldnt wait till the books were over. No joke. She selfishly wrote to fufil her contact, not at all careing what her fans felt when they read the mess that was published or about their opinions on how the story ended. Because apparently it was HER story, as she says.As for the characters. Sookie, the main character, gets bitchy, dull and stupider, completely lacking common sense dispite all she goes through. The way she immaturely runs from problems in her relationships will grate on you towards the end. She is no longer the charming, smart and quirky Sookie of the first few novels. Harris competley mauls her characters personalities, most especially the character who is hands down the best character in the series. If you do read you will know who I mean, his name stars with an E, odds are you will love him. And whatever you do, Do Not get your heart set on a certain suiter for Sookie. For many of the fans, even after the lazy and boring writing, we still read on because we wanted to see the conclusion of who will be Sookie's Happily Ever After. It was a terrible, terrible let down. Most of us wrote heartfelf flame reviews. She ends up with who is possibly the most boring, though always there for her, man in the books. And together they can have a boring normal life. Yay. Dispite the hot chemistry between her and another man, Harris springs this on usAgain: DO NOT MAKE THE SAME MISTAKE AND INVEST YOUR TIME AND LOVE AND MONEY INTO THIS SERIES.
5	1367971200	This is one of my all-time favorite series. The world she has built if fabulous. Eric is a man I think every woman needs to meet!
5	1367971200	I love this book.  I recommend this series to anyone who loves to read about the supernatural.  Charlaine Harris will keep you on the edge of your toes until the very end.
5	1367884800	This book is amazing. The world created is so vivid and exciting, the writing is superb and the character's are at their best. I remember when I read this book for the first time and quickly devoured the next 5 books (that is all that was out at the time), At that time I would and did recommend this series to anyone that would give me more than a second of their time.************************************************************************************************For all the fans who fell so in love with a series that they always pre-ordered the books as soon as they were listed on amazon, and for the fans who would take a day off work to read these books, to ALL the dedicated fans of this series, I write this for you.I come to warn anyone considering starting this series that you will fall in love with these books, just to be disappointed. Reading the books in this series was always such a wonderful and enjoyable experience, until around book 9 (some people will argue the series started falling apart earlier, but for me the line was drawn after book 9) The characters don't act like themselves and overall the last two books I read felt very rushed. I kept waiting for a book to come out that would pull me back into the series, after all I had fallen in love with these characters and hated to see their world falling apart... but the last book has been released, and from the sounds of it I am glad I stopped reading these books a few books ago. I don't want to shy anyone away from reading these books, after all THIS is what everyone fell in love with, THIS book. Just don't expect too much from the ending. If you go into these books knowing in advance that things will get rough, knowing not to get your hopes up, it might be more enjoyable/tolerable, and then maybe you can finish the series (something I never did).The first half of this series is amazing, and I wouldn't take back reading them for the world. Even knowing what I know now, I would STILL recommend this book to people, I just feel the need to give potential readers a heads up from an ex-die hard fan.
1	1367884800	I struggled to finish this book. I will not read anything else by her. Her characters were flat and her descriptions -- when present -- were pointless. The book really dragged.
5	1367712000	Great book easy read. Only took me 2 sittings to read it. Let's start #2........... Much better than I expected from reading the reviews.
4	1367712000	The first time I fell in love with the characters of the Sookie Stackhouse series was the moment HBO aired the first episode of True Blood. After watching it for years, I decided that it's time for me to pick up the books that started it all.If I could describe the book in one word it would be - different. 30% different than the TV show's first season, different than many books out there, the book was just different. Yeah, sure it did have a vampire or two but that's not all it had. It had shifters, werewolves, mind readers and, well, us. And if I read Dead Until Dark when it first released back in 2001, I would have been a lot more amazed and excited about the book.I wouldn't say that the book was mind blowing but that I simply enjoyed it and was captivated by the small town of Bon Temps and the great narration the book had. And thanks to the TV Show, I couldn't help but compare the book and the show throughout the entire book. I even had to re-watch the first season to see if they included my favorite parts from the book and unfortunately, they didn't.Big change between the book and the show is the fact that Tara (the protagonist's best friend) was a main part of the show while in Dead Until Dark she hasn't even been introduced yet. Another difference is that the books portrayed Sookie as an innocent woman who always follows the morals her grandmother taught her while in the TV Shows she isn't (much). Aside from these two things everything else is almost the same.I loved Sookie (the protagonist) and her narration. It was sweet, humorous and simple; nothing too over the top and annoying. And the best part is that I didn't find her irritating at all. For that, I give Harris a mental applause. Bill (the male lead) on the other hand was actually the hopeless romantic vampire you expect from a vampire back in the 2001. But thanks to the image HBO gave me of Bill, I still dislike him. Other characters like Sam, Eric, Pam, Jason, Arlene, Lafayette, and Renee are all the same as we see them on screen. I'm actually very happy that they stayed true to the books with most of the characters.In short, the TV Shows have added in a lot of new content to make the episodes longer and more interesting to the public while the books are spot on and original in its own way. With characters and a plot that will always stay Harris' own. I am surprised that I actually loved this book enough to consider reading the other eleven books Charlaine Harris wrote. Eleven books will be quite a journey. Wish me luck!
2	1367625600	It was recommended by two friends who told me t hey had &#34;skipped over some parts.&#34; I'm a pretty fast reader, and by the time I got to the first part I would have &#34;skipped over&#34; I had already read it and got those disgusting images in my mind. This book should have been labeled &#34;sexually explicit  content&#34; such as I find on episodes of podcasts that appeal to mixed audiences. Unlike a paperback book that I might be able to resell or trade in, this  thing is  stuck in my kindle, and not only is it a total loss dollar-wise, I can't seem to unload it. And no, I didn't finish it.
5	1367625600	I've read this book too many times to count. I love it!!! &lt;3 Eric Northman ;) Can't wait to read the rest of them.
4	1367452800	The whole series was wonderful and endearing, it has been a long time since I was so enthralled with characters lives.
3	1367366400	Being a fan of the True Blood series, I had to give this book series a try. It was definitely good, but because I knew what was going to happen it wasn't as good as it should've been.So many of the characters were different too! It was so hard to get used to. I kept waiting for Tara to show up and she never did :(A lot of things were different than the tv show and you knowhow it is, usually whatever you are exposed to first I'd what you enough  up liking the best because you have really no choice but to compare it to the 'original'.That being said I definitely liked it, enough to finish it but I don't know if I'll be reading the rest of the series. We'll see.
5	1367107200	I have read all of the books.  Just wish the tv series had stayed true to the books.  I'm thinking, the tv series is in it's last death throes.  Allan Ball has started a new series &#34;Banshee&#34; kinda' indicates where True Bood is going.
5	1366848000	Love it! Love it! Love It! I love to read the books and watch the series and compare the changes in the storie lines.
5	1366848000	This book offers everything! I simply couldn't put it down. I look forward to more and more suspenseful days in the like of Mrs Stackhouse
5	1366588800	Great book you can not stop reading. The story line and plot is amazing Charlaine Harris makes it so you can relate and feel what the characters in the book feel.
5	1366416000	Well written, leaving me wanting more.  I love to watch Sookie fall in Love with a Vampire!  So innocent and yet so dangerous
5	1366329600	I have read 10 of the series and can't wit to down load the rest.  Watching for more books by Charliaine Harris
3	1366243200	Premise: Sookie is a waitress; she mostly keeps to herself. She sort of has to, otherwise she ends up reading people's minds and knowing things she'd rather not. She's intrigued when the first vampire shows up openly in their small town, which quickly turns to worried when her new friend is suspected of murder.This was....fine. Nothing special. It's cute, I guess, and the writing is competent and I was curious enough to get to the end, but in the end I just thought it was fine.My main problem with the book was Sookie. Laying aside her annoyingly cutsie-pie name, she's irritatingly dense. Why are you surprised when something paranormal happens? YOU CAN READ MINDS! You ARE paranormal! And then, why are you surprised the next time something paranormal or scary happens? And the time after that? And the time after THAT? I know it's a lot to take in, but she is really incapable of rolling with a situation, and I find that off-putting in a heroine.The rest of the supporting cast is fine, the twist of the end of the mystery was okay but nothing amazing. The other intended twist maybe was a surprise in 2001, but at this point my reaction as a reader was: "of course that is the case, I knew from page two. That's how these books work."I guess I just felt like checking off the boxes to me. Plucky Heroine: Check. Paranormal Ability: Check. Hunky Vampire: Check. Romantic Angst: Check. Romantic Rival: Check. I know that it was early in the trend, but I'm not sure there's any reason to get into this series now unless you already love the characters from watching True Blood (I haven't seen it, so I don't know how similar/different it is).That is, if you're a reader of sci-fi/fantasy/urban fantasy/mystery/etc. If you're primarily a romance reader, I can see coming at this from a totally different angle and seeing it as new and different. However, I don't think the romance adds much to the book from the angle of a genre reader.
5	1366156800	I am re-reading all of the books now for a second time. They are still just as good and I am plowing through them yet again. I highly recommend all these books. Some of the later ones aren't as good, but you get sucked in and have to read all of them, regardless. (Kind of like the TV series.) Charlaine Harris has a great sense of humor and has the right amount of sexy without being vulgar (which, hey, sometimes vulgar is okay in my book). I think these books are way better than Anne Rice or J.R. Ward or any of the other big paranormal romance authors (although I do read them too and enjoy a lot). I will be so sad when the last book comes out, even if it seems the right time to end the series. The world of Sookie Stackhouse is one of the best you'll ever read, if you like vampires and werewolves and shapeshifters (oh my).
5	1366156800	yup yup yup very good very very very very very very very good in a true blood kinda way yup
5	1365897600	It is a great mix of romance and science fiction.  I cannot wait to read the other book in the series.
5	1365206400	I really enjoyed this book. I've been referred to this author on many occasions but it wasn't until I got my Kindle Fire that I finally checked it out. I just couldn't stop reading it....even at work!
4	1365033600	Very different from  anything  vampire I have read! If you are a twilight fan you won't be disappointed! Great read!
1	1365033600	I heard an interview with the author on NPR and was inspired to check out the first book. I'm not "into" vampires, but I am "into" good books regardless of the subject matter.  I had high hopes that it would be a funny, engaging and captivating read and the prospect of a series of books was so exciting! What a disappointment. The book starts out ok, but I am on page 269 of 327 pages and I'm really not clear on the overall plot (I won't go into details as I don't want to spoil it for anyone). The characters are weak and not very interesting. Bill the vampire is kind of a boring guy and it's really difficult to be interested in him or Sookie. The writing is fine (worlds beyond those horrible 'twilight' books!!!!) but very basic. I am not sure who the demographic is for this series, but I don't think I'm it (40+ female). The HBO show is so popular that I expected much much more. I won't bother with the rest of the series. Overall, it's not a complete waste of time, but if you truly want a thrilling, engaging, surprising well-written tale, stick with Anne Rice. She's the queen and I think she will forever reign!
2	1364947200	I was in the mood for some light reading.  I had heard them interviewing Charlaine Harris on public radio and she sounded like a thoughtful person with interesting ideas.  And everyone's talking about these books, so I picked this one up.It was a mistake.  The writing is terrible, and the resulting story is dull even though it's full of events that should be exciting.  I think the author is trying to give Sookie a strong voice, but instead she's just awkwardly written.  I kept thinking of the advice we got in creative writing classes at school:  "Show, don't tell."  I suppose that a person who can read other people's thoughts is like an omniscient narrator with a name.  Which makes it tempting for the author to always tell.  The only time the author shows, is when Sookie is being willfully obtuse.I'd like to read a book where "telepath as omniscient narrator" is done well.  This conceit ought to be a lot more fun, but in this book it just isn't.  Perhaps with practice, the author will get better, but I don't think I can plow through more of these books to find out.
5	1364947200	Gotta love some sookie stackhouse. Bubba is great. Eric is so cool and Bill is well Bill. Many more reads in the future.
5	1364860800	I am really enjoying the Sookie Stackhouse series of Books.  I have almost read each one of them.  I will need to in the future get on the current mailing list for the next book.
5	1364601600	Great book! Couldn't put it down! If you like True Blood, you'll LOVE the books! I've read them all twice now & am anxiously awaiting the 13th installment in May!
2	1364515200	I found this book to be incredibly boring. I had a hard time getting through the chapters until I just gave up. This could be because I watch True Blood, I don't know. Not my kind of book.
4	1364342400	I first heard of this series because of True Blood. Yeah, I'm one of those that got late in the game LOL. At the  time I hadn't started my obsession with UF and PNR so it was quite understandable that a couch potato like me learned of the TV show before finding out there was a book series behind it.After I got addicted to reading everything paranormal, this series kept popping into my radar. I had already seen the show and loved it, because of that I was reluctant to read it. That doesn't make any sense? I'll explain. I HATE reading a book that has become as series/movie after I have already watched the series/movie.An example was the Dresden File series by Jim Butcher. I had seen some of the TV show's episodes and therefore felt tainted when I started reading book one. It took me forever to finish it, but by the end I got really into it. I feel that I need a blank slate when reading a book series and not being influenced by the TV or the movies.I finally gave in and bought a box with books 1-8 and even after that it took me a while to start it. I did and I have to say I was done for after that. Book one was a bit shaky, because of the damn comparison with the TV show that kept going through my mind, but after that? Damn, I was in love! I read the 9 Books out so far in a week and I want more and more...The Sookie Stackhouse series is not deep and does not try to be something that it isn't. It's a fun series, with interesting characters that live in a world like our own, but where Vampires are not only real, but have just "come out of the coffin".The Sookie in the book is so much better than the TV one. She is strong, loyal, fun, interesting and you can't help but love her and feel for her. She is just great. I loved her sense of humor and her loyalty to her friends. I loved that she sticks up for herself even to powerful vamps that would leave anyone else trembling.A lot goes on from Book 1 until the latest installment and I don't want to spoil anything, but I have to say that all the books so far are fast paced, fun and full of adventure. There are tons of secondary characters that make the world Sookie lives in very interesting and rich.In the romance department we have to deal with Bill, Sam, Eric and more... Personally I LOVE Eric and am definitely part of TEAM ERIC hehe. The sex scenes aren't up to erotic standards, but they are there and I have to say that at times, they were very steamy, specially where Eric was concerned ::fans self::Best Book so far: I have to say it was "Dead to the World" (Book 4) - A lot of a Eric and a lot of fun =)Most Difficult Book to read: "Dead and Gone" (Book 8) - A lot happens in this book and it has a lot of pain. Some people have told me they were very disappointed with it, I actually enjoyed this book a lot. But it was definitely a hard book, specially having to see Sookie suffer so much.Worst Book so far: "Touch of Dead" (Book 9 - Short Stories collection) - after finishing book 8 I went on the hunt for anything Sookie and was quite disappointed with this one. A couple stories were fun, but it was montly Blah! for me...All in all, I LOVED this series. Sookie is no Kate Daniels of Allie Beckstrom. She is not the kick-ass heroine we are used to seeing in Urban Fantasy books. However she does kick-ass in her own way, by being brave, fun and flawed. She is far from perfect and that makes her more real and even more lovable. She makes the wrong choices a lot of the time and can be so irritating, but you can't help but love her anyways.I recommend this series to any Paranormal fan out there. You won't be disappointed!Originally Posted at Welcome to Larissa's Bookish Life {[...]}
5	1364083200	this series could go on forever and it would never get old , I hope the author picks a new adventure for them
3	1364083200	The book gave a little more in depth look to how the True Blood tv series originated. But is simply written and at times can be difficult to follow. I'lo admit it's a good read and I can't wait to continue the Sookie Stackhouse novels.
5	1363910400	I love the tv series and I think I will love the book's more!!!I can't wait to read the next one!
5	1363824000	I Loved it, I love all the Sookie Stackhouse books. I am waiting for the next one. I always recommend to friends and family.
4	1363651200	Sookie has great adventures in this one and you get to see the Rivalry and love she has forEric vs Bill and how she is trying to give up vampire blood to heal.  It was a good book I finishedit in about 2 days.
5	1363651200	This book got me interested in reading the whole series. My family enjoyed it also, Was delivered on time, and in great condition.
5	1362960000	I would recommend this book to Trueblood Tv lovers. Detailed writing and great story line. I think you'll enjoy the first book to this long series.
4	1362873600	I watched the HBO show prior to reading this book and while there were many simularities between the two, this book still kept me entertained. I'm looking forward to the next one.
5	1362787200	I love this book it is very excitingIt has such a great love story going I can't wait to read the others
5	1362700800	I loved it. But then I love true blood. Easy & fun read. I can't to read all of the series just wish it was cheaper. Just bought the first 10 books off eBay but really wanted to star reading them so I bought this one just really wish the books I bought were ebooks.
5	1362614400	I love this book. I really like that it is written from Sookie's perspective. The books are much funnier and more lighthearted than the HBO series. I very much prefer the book series
1	1362528000	The writing---horrible.The story---not good at least the part I read of it.I realize, I should probably get through it before saying anything, but I couldn't.
3	1362441600	A good read. The author made you care for the characters. The author brings a different spin to the genre. I am looking forward to reading the next book in the series.
5	1362441600	This is the first book in the series! A must read! Once you start reading you won't want to put it down!
5	1362355200	Never disappoints. All these books are packed with suspense, romance, humor, drama! I can't put them down! Once you start you can't stop.
5	1362355200	I do not usually read supernatural or sci-fi books but I found this to be so refreshing and I just loved the Sookie character.  After this one, I had to go and purchase the rest to read and cannot wait for the final book to come out in May.
4	1361664000	I have watched the show for years. But giving television up for lent has made it time to read.  All though I miss some of the characters, I find Sookie to be so much more well rounded. Looking forward to reading the next book.
4	1361404800	Considering its a different writing style than I'm used to, I did enjoy it.I only wish some of the descriptions were better but otherwise I enjoyed the story line and characters. Plan on reading the next book.
4	1361318400	Sookie Stackhouse is a small town waitress in Louisiana, but she's no ordinary girl. She can read people's minds, which she finds to be a real problem when it comes to leading a regular kind of life. Living with her grandma since her parents died when she was just a girl, Sookie is just waiting for the right guy to come along. But with her &#34;disability,&#34; dating isn't all that easy. I mean, we all know what goes through guys minds, but would you really want to have to hear it? Eww, anyway, the book begins just as vampires are beginning to &#34;come out of the coffin&#34; and be recognized as their own unique people group. What should happen but a gorgeous vampire walks into Sookie's bar and his mind is closed to her, a novelty to someone who has been having to shut off people's thoughts her whole life. The book is balanced with just the right amount of suspense and silliness to keep you reading. What good girl hasn't been waiting her entire boring and painful life for a tall, pale and blood sucking hero to levitate in and sweep her off her feet?
4	1361145600	This series is so good.  I have enjoyed reading the Sookie series and learning about the Sookie World has been a pleasure.
5	1361059200	I love true blood so I decided to try out the books the series was based on. I could not stop reading!  The books are even better then the show because you get way more detail. I'm getting the next book right now.
5	1361059200	I love the Sookie Stackhouse book series. I love watching the True Blood serious. I have watched every show since it's aired.
5	1360886400	I bought these books because they were what I wanted at a decent price. I knew they were used and expected no less. They were in good shape when they arrived, they arrived quickly. I am happy.
5	1360540800	I wasn't sure if I'd like the Sookie Stackhouse books as I never got into the HBO series True Blood, but it's always been in the back of my mind to give it a read.What I did love both on screen and in the book was Sookie Stackhouse. I love her observations, her voice, her dialogue. 'Now don't you talk dirty mister.' ;) It's fun to read about a different sort of heroine who is strong willed without having to act bad ass. Sookie can hold her own in a sundress and she's one tough Southern cookie!As with the HBO version, I'm not a big fan of Bill the Vampire. He's just not very charismatic and he basically has one line: "Sookie is mine."While I don't feel the chemistry between Sookie and Bill, the story is told in such an engaging tone that I can't help fall in love with the series and look forward to the next book.
5	1360540800	There are over 3,000 reviews before me so I won't rehash the plot and characters instead I'll just give my observations as to why I liked the book. I absolutely hated Harris' Aurora Teagarden series and the Harper Connolly series (started the first ones and never finished), so when my niece kept nagging me to read the Sookie Stackhouse series I put it off and put it off. Started reading it a few weeks ago and I love this series. I read the negative reviews before I started since I was looking for an excuse not to open Dead Until Dark and read some of the five star reviews which got me more interested. Finally just to get my niece off my back (i.e. constant emails "have you started it yet?") I opened it and was transported to Bon Ton, Louisiana and the world of vampires, weres and of course Sookie and her crazy universe.What do I like about the series? I think the characters are a bit superficial in that Harris doesn't delve too deeply into their psyches, but they are true to who they are and you grow with them. Harris has fleshed out a town and universe that remains fairly constant (as in she doesn't get mixed up and add elements that make no sense).  The books are campy and entertaining. Yes Sookie gets a little annoying at times, but as you read the book (and the series) she is like a family member so that is okay!This series is obviously not for everyone. But if you do decide to read it go in with a spirit of adventure. Don't expect a great literary work, but do expect a great piece of paranormal vamp camp!
3	1360454400	This was a fast and easy read.  The author keeps you interested with action and expecting new twists with each turn of the page (or swipe of the finger).  Nothing is deep or moving and there were some scenes that weren't fully explained or explored, but overall a fun read and I'll pick up the next book in the series for light reading in between my literary fiction reading.
4	1360368000	I have enjoyed each one of Charlaine Harris's books in the Sookie Stackhouse series. She is able to keep the reader wanting more!
5	1360281600	Charlaine Harris, tells a great story about a young woman who, like everyone else in this world, is trying to find their place and figure out where their life is headed. The books are well written and are a great read.If you do get hooked into the series and are reading them on kindle you should know that Charlaine Harris wrote short stories in between the novels and the novels reference these stories. There were a few times I came upon a part in the books that talked about something Sookie did that I didn't read about in the books prior, until I read online the bit about the short stories in between.If you watch True Blood on HBO, that show is loosely based on the books, its not exact by any measure. By reading the books, it will not give you very much insight as to what is coming next on the show, nor the other way around.I enjoy both the show and the books.
5	1360108800	Couldn't put it down! Chaplains Harris knows how to write a story! Now on to the next book ;)..anticipation is written all over my face..
5	1359936000	A little corny at times but over  all a great book! I look forward to reading the other books I think they're a lot different from the show
4	1359676800	I love True Blood on HBO, I love the Sookie Stackhouse series. I own all the books in a mix of Hard Cover and paperback. I am now working on it digitally!
3	1358985600	I think these books are written more for young adults then adults.  The HBO series does make it more interesting and adult like.
5	1358812800	This was the first book in the series, and I totally loved it. I have had a hard time finding out in what order to read this series. I am down to number nine, and will have to research if there are anymore, and what order to find number ten.I'm wondering if the tiger is gone for good.
5	1358640000	This book has an amazing story built around very unique characters. It's no wonder why this book is such a hit. There's even a TV show!! It's always great to sit down and read the book that created it all.
5	1358553600	This is the first True Blood book.  I was glad to find it because I had lost mine.  I got this one to re-complete my full series.  The TV show is so over the top it's hard to watch.  There's so much in-your-face brutal sex and violence.  The books are not like that.  They hold your attention without all the hyperbole.
4	1358380800	I loved this book!read it in 2 days and that usually doesn't happen for me. I couldn't put it down!
2	1358294400	I don't use the word hate, or I would have rated it with one star.  Therefore, this gets a 2 star, by default.  When I purchased this book, it was advertised as &#34;Used-Good&#34;.  It should have said &#34;Used-Poor Condition&#34;.  I bought the box set of Sookie Stackhouse books in 2010.  I read them, one after the other.  Mine look like they haven't even been read.  I take very good care of my books and expected the same thing from the seller when it was advertised as &#34;Used-Good&#34;.  I am very highly disappointed.  I loaned my first book to someone who has failed to bring the book back to me after a year.  Therefore, I bought this one on line until(if ever)I get mine back.  My fault for ever loaning the book out.  I would NOT recommend using this seller EVER again.  I am just really truly disappointed in my purchase.  I have never bought a used book on line and I never will again, unless I don't care what shape it is in, which I highly doubt.  I have a Harry Potter book I ordered at the same time from a different seller and it has not arrived.  I hope I get better results.  My Badness for trusing in others.
2	1358208000	I attempted reading Dead Until Dark (Sookie Stackhouse #1) on vacation last summer, but I began feeling nauseous after the first 10 pages. And it wasn't because of airplane turbulence. Sookie just seemed so in love with herself and, after reading about how attractive the bar owner, Sam, was and how irresistible her brother, Jason, was to women, I almost needed a barf bag. I tossed the book aside, figuring I'd rather listen to someone clipping their fingernails than read another page.But I've really been into fun chick mystery novels lately and I saw, over and over again, people recommending Sookie, and I needed a vampire book for January's paranormal reading challenge. Not being a huge fan of vampires and not wanting  a serious book, I figured this would be an opportunity to see what I was (or was not) missing.I'm not sure if it's the fact that I went into it thinking reading this book was going to be about as enjoyable as snowshoeing through the Alaskan tundra without chapstick, but it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. In fact, I'd say it really tried to be good. Except there was one thing sort of major thing holding it back: the writing.I try not to nag on authors for their writing skills, because, guess what, Charlaine Harris has an extremely successful book franchise that's even inspired an HBO series. I have a blog and I doubt I could publish anything worthy of inspiring as much as a SlapChop commercial.But...It was almost like Harris wrote Dead Until Dark as a homework assignment. It didn't feel like she had any passion for her characters - they were so cookie cutter, one-dimensional, and void of any kind of emotional depth, that it seemed like they were made up to tell the story rather than being the story.For example, there was Sookie, who I liked (or at least liked the concept of). She's  a waitress in the small town of Bon Temps, Louisiana with the ability (or, as she sees it, disability) to hear peoples' thoughts. Having to hear the mundane and TMI details of everyone's lives hasn't been easy on Sookie, which she makes clear through the frequent mentions of how it's kept her from doing well in school or having relationships.Then, in walks Bill the Vampire (it's okay to LOL at that. As Sookie points out, what kind of vampire is named Bill). Sookie is enthralled that a real live (er, dead) vampire has come to Bon Temps and is sitting in her section of the bar. Sure, she thinks he's cute and giggles like a schoolgirl when she serves him his red wine (since they didn't have any synthetic blood), but what would you do if you were a small-town girl serving your first supernatural being?  I've read books where female characters throw themselves at the Bad Boy Love Interest against all sense and logic. Hell, in some of the books I've read, she'd be humping him in the walk-in freezer as soon as they locked eyes. I hate those books. For having a crush, Sookie actually handled herself pretty well. She was in awe of Bill, but she didn't go over the top.As I said, I liked the concept of Sookie, I just couldn't understand her because there wasn't really anything to understand. She told you how she felt or what was going on as if she were an observer in her how life. Throughout the book, she experiences several emotional situations, but she fails to react to them.NOTE: The following isn't really a spoiler (I don't think), but it does mention a few things that happen in the book.--------When her grandmother dies, Sookie exhibits the emotional range of a tuna. She says she's sad, but she doesn't act like it. This is the woman who raised her and her brother since they were kids. But when her cat dies later in the book, she's more distraught. And I say that because she tells us she's more distraught. She still doesn't act any different. When it becomes apparent someone is murdering women fitting her description and it is likely her grandmother was murdered because the killer expected Sookie to be home, she doesn't seem to react. It's like she put "worry about being murdered" on her to-do list, but she just hadn't got around to it yet.I would have liked to hear more about growing up in a small town with the ability to read minds. She says everyone refers to her as "crazy" (If I had a dollar for every time she used that word...) because of her telepathy, but it doesn't seem like anyone really treats her all that different (unless she listens in and reacts to what they're saying).It's a fair criticism that Sookie is so hot and cold when it comes to Bill - one minute it is "I love you" and the next minute it's "We need to break up" - but they do have some serious issues to deal with in their relationship. For examples, The residents of Bon Temps don't trust vampires. Bill's friends are vampires (and not all should be trusted). There is a killer murdering women who have been clearly bitten by a vampire (so, of course, he's a suspect). Sookie has to deal with the fact that Bill needs to occasionally feed on willing humans (fangbangers), which is a fairly intimate experience... just to name a few. That's why I didn't have a problem with Sookie's flip flopping so much; it was the fact that she did it without reason. I mean, she would literally be "I love you" and, without anything serious happening or a though popping into her head, tell him she needed space. And that is the author's fault.-------I didn't mind Bill. I'd even go as far as to say I liked him. Like Sookie, he was one-dimensional and lacked emotion, but that kind of works for a vampire. He even had some great deadpan comedic moments (it can't be easy being a 140 years old vampire trying to date in the 21st century).  I had that urge to protect Sookie, but I never felt like he was pulling the "I must leave you because I know what's best for you" crap (like a certain other famous book-to-picture vampire we all know and love hate).I loved the idea of vampires "coming out of the closet" and trying to live among humans (while balancing the rules and hierarchy they've practiced for centuries). I liked how Harris even managed to touch on topics such as AIDS and its effect on blood-drinking beings. I found the whole "virus" explanation of vampirism interesting and I wonder if it is a strategic move by vampires to gain power over the humans.The murder/mystery plot in Dead Until Dark was barely present - and that was probably a good thing since the best way to describe it was like the Barney Fife version of CSI. It was one of those situations where you knew the only way for the killer to be caught was by the main character, which was a little strange because Sookie, in no way, was trying to catch him (or her).Of course, I can't do this review without mentioning HBO's True Blood. It seemed a lot of reviews I read, right off the bat, wanted to compare the book and the show, and I think most of those people were True Blood fans first, and then decided to read the book.Big mistake. It's not really fair to compare the book and the show. Dead Until Dark had barely 300 pages to fit in a plot and True Blood had an entire season. The show had time to integrate some new characters (Tara, Sookie's best friend) and expand on others (Lafayette, the gay black cook at Merllote's) and wasn't limited to Sookie's perspective. With that said, I do like the show much better.Reading the book then starting True Blood (which is what I did) is actually a pretty good idea. It's helped me to have some understanding of the characters to go on, so I feel like I notice little things that the show is expanding on or see foreshadowing to future events better than I would've had I not read the book.I'm continuing on to Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse #2), not so much because I felt compelled to find out what happens next (it really isn't that much of a cliffhanger), but the writing seemed to improve as the book went on and I'd like to see if, as readers have said, the books get better. So far, I'm not totally sold on the series and don't feel the burning desire to read all the books in a row (1. There's a lot of them and 2. I have other books I need to read...and 3. I really really really am trying to break my habit of only reading series books).
2	1358208000	First of all let me start by saying this book is so great that I'd actually already read a borrowed copy from a friend. I have been reading the rest of the books in this series( which are equally as good) and wanted to own this one as well. It arrived pretty quickly but when I opened it, it was a completely different book from a different author. I had to call customer service to try to return it because it wouldn't let me do it online and was told because it was from an outside vendor, I would have to return the book, wait for my refund, then reorder it. This is fine this time because I've already read it, but if it were one I was waiting to read I would've been very unhappy. Hopefully this was just an error and isn't a recurring problem.
5	1358208000	I originally started reading this book after a friend suggested it to me. I did not know it was a True Blood book until I bought it. I actually really wanted to watch True Blood so now I am going to wait until I finish reading the book to watch the series. It is a very interesting book about the world that knows vampires exist. It is very interesting to learn more about a sort of different side of Twilight, because it does have a lot of similarities, although it is more graphic and sexual. It is a very good read and includes &#34;edge of your seat&#34; action and plot! I would definitely recommend this book if you like the &#34;supernatural&#34; vampire world!
4	1357776000	It took a couple chapters for me to get into the book but after that I was hooked. I've read the first two books in her series in a week and a half and I plan on buying the third installment today.
5	1357776000	very nicely written book, the story is almost the same as the series, the series are more bloody and scary though!
5	1357430400	Loved it! I have seen the TV show, and the book is even better! Now on to the next one!
5	1357344000	starts here. make quick easy friends with Sookie and enter her world of vampires, shapeshifters... and stay for a while.
5	1357257600	I love the Sookie books.  Have read them all and am eager to hear how it ends with the final installment set to release in May 2013.  These are fun, exciting stories that define how wild your imagination can go!  I see reading as an escape and the characters are ones you'll love or love to hate.  It's great to have so many talented minds putting pen to paper and creating such story lines... especially ones you want to go on forever!  Thank you, Ms. Harris for the delightful read.
5	1357257600	Sookie Stackhouse is a small-time cocktail waitress in small-town Louisiana. She's quiet, keeps to herself, and doesn't get out much. Not because she's not pretty. She is. It's just that, well, Sookie has this sort of "disability." She can read minds. And that doesn't make her too dateable. And then along comes Bill. He's tall, dark, handsome-and Sookie can't hear a word he's thinking. He's exactly the type of guy she's been waiting for all her life...But Bill has a disability of his own: he's a vampire with a bad reputation. He hangs with a seriously creepy crowd, all suspected of-big surprise-murder. And when one of Sookie's coworkers is killed, she fears she's next..."I'd been waiting for the vampire for years when he walked into the bar."Gasp!!!! I think I am officially hooked. Charlaine Harris is amazing!!!! I've got a book crush on Bill!!!!! Lol. Great adventure and action wrapped around mystery. A must read to anyone who loves the whole paranormal/vampire stuff. Looking forward to book two!!!
4	1357171200	Easy read and entertaining. Different enough from the truth blood series to make it worth reading and watching both. Looking forward to the next book
2	1357171200	I really don't understand why people are really into this book series ,.. I liked a few parts but it got boring and I start to lose interest fast.
4	1357084800	Awesome read all the way until the end.  I looked forward to the next book in the series to read.
5	1356998400	If you like the TV series, this book is the first season.  It starts off exactly like episode 1 starts.  Very easy reading.
3	1356825600	I originally read this book around the time that True Blood first started airing on HBO.  At that time, the show had better appeal to me so I couldn't remember how much the book differed from the show.  So after I quit watching the show for awhile, I decided to give this series another chance.  I am so glad I am giving them another try!I think when I tried reading this book before, I kept comparing it to the characters and story line of the HBO show.  With the book I noticed certain characters are missing and the story plays out on a different time table at times.  I can definitely tell with the world building, character building and overall cast of characters that this book is more of a guilty indulgence than one that blew me out of the water.  It was even kind of childish at times with temper tantrums and a crew of Barney Five cops trying to solve the murders in town.I am still on the fence about liking the cast of characters.  I can't wait to read more about Eric, Pam and Lafayette.  Bill seems a little off to me but I am going to give him the benefit of the doubt and keep my fingers crossed that he is better in the next one.  And then we have Sookie. Sookie, Sookie, Sookie. Just saying her name makes me laugh.  I wasn't a fan of her in this book, but I am curious to understand why she has this disability and what it could mean.Overall, it had cheesy moments, sexy moments, detailed moments, and bloody moments as well since this is a book about vampires.  I am going to keep going with the series though just so I can see how everyone's roles will play out.
5	1356825600	a great novel ,as always, from CharlaineShe is the only writer I know that can make me believe in vampires !
4	1356825600	I am a True Blood fan and thought I would give the books a try much to my surprise this book was a hundred times better than the show, the only thing I missed was Lafayette being a diva.
3	1356566400	I am a big True Blood fan and since it does not come back till the summer and i just got a new Kindle PW i figured now was a good time to read the books from which True Blood came.I am just starting chapter 3 and it is hard to miss how repetitive Sookie is... I get it you read minds, but can't read Bill's or any other vampires mind. Saying it 10 times in a chapter will not change that. From watching the show i already know how the mystery will turn out, but oddly enough i am still excited for it.If the rest of the series will be as repetitive i don't know how i'll be able to deal with it. I really want to love this book and even with the beginning of Sookie and Bill's romance and the mystery of who is killing the women of Bon Temps i can't  with a clear conscience give this book more than 3 stars. If you really want to read it borrow it from your local library and save your money, i'm glad i did.
5	1356566400	I have seen the shows of true blood and  absolutely loved that the show and the book are  so alike. Most shows and books aren't like that, it was  a fantastic book that never got boring! Loved it!!!!!! :)
5	1356566400	I really tried not to get into this whole vampire craze.  But these books drew me in.Charlane Harris is really good about keeping you engaged with Sookie and her family
5	1356480000	I of course watched the show true blood before reading the series. The book was actually very good. Of course it's different from the show in many aspects. Some key characters are missing that were in the show.  But then characters in the book weren't even addressed in the show.  I am very thankful that the narrator was sookie.  I'm also thankful that sex wasn't as detailed or evident in the book as much as it was in the show.  I can't wait to read the next book!
5	1356307200	I read series all the time. I have read all of the Sukie Stackhouse Series and I LOVE THEM. Hope she keeps writing them.
5	1356307200	I tried watching the show that was based off the series and couldn't get into it. If only it was as good as the book!
5	1356048000	This series was recommended to me by a good friend and i am so glad that i listened! i haven't been able to stop reading them and feel as if i have a bit of an addiction to Sookie.  Dead Until Dark was no exception, I couldn't put it down.  A definite must read for anyone who enjoys reading to escape reality and laughing at others predictments.
1	1356048000	This is a mediocre book at best, which is a down right shame, as there are several elements to the world created here that could have been amazing if done right (as the success of the TV series might show). Unfortunately, the author didn't do it right. The problem with this book, for my part, is that I felt absolutely nothing while reading it. The writing wasn't BAD, really, not enough for me to hate it; but there was nothing in the book that was GOOD, either. After finishing the book, all I felt for Sookie and the rest of the cast was, well, indifference. It took me some time to figure out why, in order of importance:1) The writing style. First-person POV is used to great effect in urban fantasy, and I like it because it lets us get into the heads of the main characters, lets the audience know them as people and connect emotionally. This? There was nothing. This is NOT the right way to do 1st-person POV. Everything was described so simply and so dryly that I felt nothing, and, worse, was never convinced that Sookie felt anything. Even when she was running for her life, when I should be reading about her terror, there was nothing except flat descriptions of her actions. &#34;I ran here,&#34; &#34;I climbed the tree,&#34; &#34;I sobbed for a few minutes.&#34; None of that let me see that she really was afraid, that she really was hurt - her heart should have been pounding, her palms should have been sweaty, and her sobs should have made her breathing haggard. This was the first time I've ever read a book where I was so utterly disconnected from the main character, including all the ones that were 3rd person narrative POV - and that is NOT a good sign. Sookie may as well have been a cardboard cut out, for all that I felt from and towards her.2) Going hand in hand with the first problem, the relationship between Bill and Sookie. WTF? They meet, they save each other, drink each other's blood, and suddenly they're in love after, what, less than a month? Because of the detached way Sookie described everything, even Bill, I was completely taken aback when the two of them declared their love for each other. Like, where the hell did that come from? Even when they were together, there was nothing written about how Sookie was feeling about Bill, aside from one sentence descriptions. How does that make a convincing love story? And don't even get me started on the whole &#34;killing people to protect you&#34; and &#34;I don't care if you're a monster, I love you anyway&#34; things. What is this, Twilight's older (yet no less soul crushing) sister?3) The plot. Maybe I'm just spoiled by the plethora of kick-ass female protagonists that go out and DO things, but Sookie just did not appeal as a character at all. She's the main focus of the series, and yet she had nothing to do with the plot in this book, how it moved. A murder happens and she reacts. Another murder happens, and she reacts again. She doesn't even react like a main character should react - she just frets about it for a paragraph or two and then goes on with (flatly) describing her life as a waitress and her time with Bill (flat, yet again). Things keep happening to her and around her, but she's just...there. There's no point to her presence in the books, other than as a bystander, which is really frustrating when we (as readers) are stuck in her head. Also? This is NOT how you write a mystery; a good mystery gives you seemingly insignificant clues, to which you can look back at the end and go, &#34;Oh, that totally lines up!&#34; This felt like the author just put a bunch of names in a hat and drew one out at random to be the villain, like, it didn't matter who it was, as long as it was somebody.I can't even muster up the energy or the motivation to actively dislike the book. I'm just completely indifferent to and unmoved by the characters. Like Sookie, the book is just...there.
5	1355961600	Was an easy read. It was a required read but I would read it anyway. Kept me interested the whole time.
4	1355961600	You completely forget you have to sleep or even breath. It's a piece of dream for every girl. Supernatural beings come so naturally into people's lives... Reading is easy and nice.
5	1355875200	I don't like vampire books or movies however this is not the regular vampire book.  Charlaine Harris has created a wonderful character Sookie Stackhouse who you just have to admire and like the way she uses her &#34;special gift&#34;.  I am on my 2nd book.
5	1355875200	If you love TrueBlood, its an easy read. This book is basically the first season in text (I watched the shows first obviously). I was turned on to the books by a great friend who is obsessed with this series. I am currently reading Living Dead in Dallas, which has a slightly different story line than the HBO series, which is making it an even more excititng read! Super fun, and Super sexy!!
2	1355702400	Characters are interesting, story is good, but I'm a complete wimp about violence in movies and books, so this book was too much for me. The &#34;villain&#34; in this book is really disturbing, psychotic, and violent toward women. Because Sookie can read minds she can see his gross thoughts. Turned me off of the series.
4	1355529600	Good book! Love the show and the books! Can't wait to read the next one! Skookie rocks ! Thx charlaine
5	1355529600	Love the entire series. Charlaine Harris does know how  to tell a story. Have all the series except the final book that won't be out until May, I can't wait
4	1355443200	Rating: 3.5The Low Down: Imagine if you lived in a small town of jabbering gossips. Now imagine if you lived in a town where you not only heard everyone talking, but you heard all of their thoughts, too. Sookie Stackhouse is telepathic. She has learned how to try and block out all of the noise, but it doesn't keep everyone in Bon Temps, Louisiana from thinking she's crazy. Anywhere there's lots of people is difficult, like school, for example, so she decided not to go to college. She can't have a boyfriend because she hears what they are thinking. So, her life is working at Merlotte's, a bar in town, and tries to mind her own business.It's been two years since vampires came out of the casket, so to speak, and they are trying to find their place in a society that is, by all rights, still a little scared of them. A Japanese company has designed a synthetic blood which keeps them from having to feed off of their less-dead neighbors. But prejudice, being what it is, causes many to go on the rampage against vampires, while the cult of celebrity, being what it is, causes just as many "fang bangers" to chase the undead and offer themselves up as snacks. There's never been a vampire in Bon Temps until the day Bill Compton moves in, and the town is equal parts scared and fascinated. But none are more fascinated than Sookie. And when she saves him from a brutal draining, he is in her debt. Not that he minds one iota.Sookie and her brother, Jason, grew up with their grandmother after their parents died in a flash flood. Jason has since moved out into their parents' old house, but Sookie remains, keeping an eye on Gran. Jason is a hot womanizer, and since Bon Temps is a small town, he's probably been with just about every female there. Unfortunately for him, some of his conquests are turning up dead. And since he likes to videotape their encounters, he becomes suspect number one.Best Thang `Bout It: It's a vampire book for grown-ups. Wanting to start the True Blood series, I kept my pledge and read the book first. I am pleased to say that, with the exception of a main character, the show is really true to the book. I know that can be difficult, so I applaud HBO for that. Sometimes it makes no sense to me why movies or TV changes or omits something altogether, especially when it is trivial. I love that it is set in Northern Louisiana instead of New Orleans. It still has that Louisiana mystique, but is not saturated in French Quarter voodoo.I'm Cranky Because: I am having a hard time believing that Sookie isn't more used to handling her gift and that so many people think she's crazy. You'd think in a small town like that, they'd know her and get it. `Specially bein' in Lou-zeeann. But, I've never lived in a small town, this is needed for the plot and I get it. I think it is interesting, though, that in the TV series, she has a mouthy best friend.Should You?: If you enjoy small towns, vampires, romance, rednecks, sex, telepaths, blood, gore and mystery, this is your book.Dead Until Dark by Charlaine Harris was published on May 1, 2001 by Ace Books.Genre: Fiction Fantasy Paranormal Romance MysteryAges: Adult
5	1354665600	A fun, easy read. The author nails the southern-speak right on the head, and it really gets you into the characters.
5	1353542400	I love these books. I am a big fan of True Blood so naturallyI would like the books as well.
5	1353456000	...and boy were they right! I have always been a fan of the HBO series True Blood, but I didn't read the book until this year. In fact I've had the book for over six months. I honestly just kept forgetting about it, but one day I picked it up, and I've been hooked ever since.The characters alone are enough to make you keep reading. You'll quickly fall in love with Sookie and all of her quirks. Then there are the vampires, shifters, were-community and more. Each page will leave you wanting more and more.
5	1353024000	The book was in great condition and the shipping time was reasonable. I was a little weary about buying a soft cover book online relative to the condition but it was just like the ad had said. Thank you!!
5	1352764800	A absolute page turner. Excellent addition to the sookie stack house novels. It helps explain some parts of the true blood Tv series.
5	1352505600	I own the first four seasons of the HBO series.  This book was better than the first season of the series and I loved the first season of the series.
4	1352160000	While I like the Tru Blood TV series. The books are so much better. For one thing they have a plot...and the stories are much more detailed and beliveable.
4	1352073600	I really liked the book, it was an easy read. I loved how all of the characters fit together in the story line.
4	1351728000	Love the show more but I'm reading the first book and its very good I can't wait to read more books I hope the books follow the show
4	1351555200	This being my first Sookie Stackhouse novel. I was suitably impressed with the writing style so full of quirks that are true to life and interesting insights to all of the characters thru out all of the book. None of the characters were over the top in their personalities and every single one was rich in detail and full of history or backstory. Here are my thoughts:Sookie Stackhouse, is twenty-something waitress, who is anything but ordinary. She is gifted with telepathy which makes her strange or crazy to the fellow residents of Bon Temps. Sookie does her very best not to listen in on people's thoughts and is always on guard mentally which can be just as exhausting. Sookie lives with her grandmother since the tragic death of her parents from age 7 on. Sookie's older brother Jason is very handsome young man that has women falling at his feet constantly but he live in their parents house. Sookie works at Merlotte's where she likes to collect special first occurences such as meeting a vampire. When a vampire named Bill shows up at Merlotte's, Sookie's life is about to be turned upside down before she can even blink. Bill is an old fashion kind of vampire with very specific ideas about people especially ladies yet wants to get to know Sookie better. Even more shocking is a death of a young woman that sends waves of shocks thru out Bon Temps. Sookie discovers an another young woman dead suspicion that Jason is involved with these deaths. Sookie has been coming out of her shell and everyone is starting to notice this change. Who is killing these women? Why is Jason under suspicion? How has Bill helped Sookie? Why has Bill moved to Bon Temps? Will the killer be caught? Your answers await you in Dead Until Dark.
4	1351468800	This is Book 1 in the Southern vampire series that has been made into HBO's True Blood series. I started watching the television show years ago without knowing it was originally a book. The show intrigued me--as visually pleasing mind candy. But in typical HBO fashion, parts of it were over-the-top with sex scenes sprinkled in freely. I later heard a story about an HBO producer randomly picking up a copy of Harris's book in an airport, being intrigued, and pursuing the series from there. I was intrigued. I wanted to know just how good the book was. And as usual, the book is much better than the television show.It's told through the first-person viewpoint of Sookie Stackhouse, a girl with the ability to read people's thoughts. From the start, her voice is sympathetic and intriguing. She's an underdog, and her "disability" (reading minds) has forced her to distance herself from most close relationships. Her grandmother is loveable, too. Seventy-eight years old and still fairly open-minded. For example, when Sookie meets a vampire who lived during the Civil War, her grandmother asks her to invite the young man to address her Civil War club at their next meeting (agreeing that they'll make special arrangements to meet after dark).As an author, Harris was clever in giving Sookie her troubling "disability." While Sookie tries to block out other people's thoughts, she can--conveniently--turn the ability on and off, allowing her to peek into other characters' heads when the narrative demands it. The story accept vampires matter-of-factly, with a vampire bar called Fangtasia, for example, or Sookie's grandmother telling vampire Bill not to drink too much--just before his date with Sookie (a double-entendre on drinking alcohol versus blood).If the colorful vampire plot isn't enough to hold your interest, there is plenty of romantic intrigue. Sookie is drawn to vampire Bill, whose life she saved and who saved her life during a violent brawl. Part of the attraction is that Sookie is unable to read Bill's mind, leaving her a refreshing sense of quiet. In the meantime, Sookie's boss, Sam, seems to know about her mind-reading ability and is even able to block her from reading his mind (though she's read enough to know that he desires her).  And yes, there is some sex. It is more tastefully done than the HBO series.I won't divulge any of the plot twists (if you haven't read it, I don't want to ruin it; if you've seen the HBO series, you already know most of them). I did feel, however, that I have a better understanding of Sookie, Jason, their motivations, and even the motivations of the other characters after having read the book (compared to the show). I'll also promise that it's a fast read. It isn't particularly difficult, and the numerous plot twists force the page to turn. My only complaint is that the chapter breaks were long, making it harder to find a stopping point to do things like let the dogs out or make dinner. Still, once you get bitten by her tale, you won't want to stop.
4	1351382400	Dead Until Dark is the first book in the "Sookie Stackhouse" series which takes place in Bon Temps, Louisiana when vampires are now "out" and in the public eye. The main character, Sookie Stackhouse is a telepathic waitress and she meets Bill, a vampire that was born in her town and has since returned. A string of murders occurs in the town, which seems to be targeting "fangbangers" and soon its realized that Sookie may be the main target.Ok, to start off... holy smokes, this book is sexual. I guess I should have realized that when everyone talks about "fangbangers"  or maybe I'm just used to mild romance scenes from reading too much Young Adult, haha. Charlaine does a really good job of making Bill a very appealing vampireAt first I couldn't understand why the hype was so big around this book, I felt like it was good but nothing that was "wow". Then suddenly I couldn't stop reading and I realized why everyone loves it. I really enjoyed how vampires were out in the open. That's not normally the case in supernatural stories, vampires are always hidden from the public eye and the mortal world doesn't really think they exist. I found it was something different to throw into the mix and that played a large part in keeping me interested.Sookie didn't really thrill me as a character. I thought she was sooo dumb sometimes and I wanted to scream. I had a very love-hate relationship with her. Bill on the other hand was marvelous... and I absolutely adored Sam. I knew something was up with him from the get go but I was really surprised when it was revealed because that was the last on my mind(which I won't spoil if you don't know). The rest of the characters were just kind of present, I didn't feel particular any feelings towards them.All in all I really ended up liking this book and I will continue with the series although they aren't rush out to buy kind of books. The first book ended pretty satisfying, not with a huge cliff hanger and I appreciated that. Especially since I need to get more of my TBR pile down, haha.If you are interested in picking this up but unsure, I would recommend doing it, it's a very easy read and it will keep your attention.
4	1351209600	Reading and Writing Urban Fantasy and Paranormal RomanceAt a GlanceI loved this book when I first read it 3 years ago. But now that my paranormal pallet has been expanded, this book lacks some paranormal flair but is an overall enjoyable read.The GoodThis book is pretty much about Sookie Stackhouse, a telepathic waitress, and her introduction to the paranormal world. Vampires have already "come out of the coffin" and the world is slowly getting use to the idea of vampires being next door neighbors. Sookie finds vampires fascinating, and once she meets vampire Bill, she can't help but immerse herself into his world. And as the ups and downs of vampire life starts to weigh heavily on Sookie, her life gets even more complicated when the people around her start being murdered. And it looks like the killer might be coming after he next.Though this is a lighter paranormal book for me, I found that the characters and the unique world really pulled me in. Sookie comes across as fun and loving. She can be ditsy at times but it just adds to her charm. But her telepathic abilities have made her life difficult. She can hear everyone's thoughts, which makes dating very...awkward. So when vampire Bill walks into the bar she works at and she can't read his thoughts at all, it's like her prays have been answered. He offers her something no one else can, affection without her being able to read his mind. You can't help but feel happy for Sookie when she finds someone who also lives a life of complication, someone she can relate with. Vampires may have been "accepted" into society, but the discrimination is always present. And Bill is a little bit of a wild card. He hangs out with questionable people and his reputation is a bit scary. I did find him very interesting and couldn't wait for him to come on scene.The story about the killer was well done. I didn't know who was responsible until Harris wanted me to. The mystery and suspense were awesome. And I couldn't believe how far Harris went to surprise and shock us. She didn't hold anything back. But I feel the best part of this book is Sookie's introduction to vampire society. It was creepy, scary, and a little bit sexy. It often made me question Bill's motives, but I liked it. Dead Until Dark really kept me on my toes.The BadThe biggest annoyance is that this really isn't a great representation of an amazing paranormal book. It was more a mystery book with a vampire twist. I would not suggest this book to people who want an introduction to paranormal books.Also, the writing was subpar. There were many awkward sentences and way to much description for things I did not care to know in detail. Also, be prepared for a cheesefest. Some of the things these characters said made me cringe.The SnugglyWe get sex scenes that I feel are pretty mild. I liked the first one because Sookie is so nervous and Bill really puts her at ease. It's all very cute. But the sex in general was okay and sometimes very awkward. Nothing like the hot sexed up HBO series.OverallThis is not a perfect book but I did find it funny, scary, and sweet most of the time. The mystery is good and the vampire world Harris has created is amazing. I wouldn't really know who to recommended this book to though. I think people will just have to try it and see if this series is for them. Recommended.QuotesEric appeared to be counting my eyelashes. I tried to keep my gaze on my hands, to indicate modesty. I felt power tweaks kind of flow over me and had an uneasy feeling Eric was trying to influence me. I risked a quick peek, and sure enough he was looking at me expectantly. Was I supposed to pull off my dress? Bark like a dog? Kick Bill in the shins? Shit.~~~~~~~~~~~~"Of course I am grateful, and I'm sure you are, as you put it, a special vintage," Bill said politely, "But I have my own wine cellar."
5	1350518400	I love this book even more than the show. its so dark and sensual. i cant wait to read the rest of the series
1	1350259200	No build up to climax...what was the climax? Characters were not interesting...lack of development. Just overall boring and unentertaining. Lack of detail and storyline.
4	1350000000	I have just recently reread Dead until Dark by Charlaine Harris, the first book it what is to become the Sookie Stackhouse series, which the HBO series True Blood is based on.  The first thing I noticed is how in this book the way the characters were described and how in depth Ms. Harris developed the character interaction you could tell this was going to be a series of books.  The plot of this book is about the coming out of vampires to the world, since the creation of synthetic blood known as "True Blood", specifically in the small town of Bon Temps, LA.  Just as vampires begin to integrate in "regular "society, a rash of deaths in Bon Temps is being blamed on vampires and the only connection between the victims as they are known as "fang bangers" or people who like to have sex with vampires and the brother of the main character [Sookie] Jason Stackhouse the well known ladies man of Bon Temps.  Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress at a local bar in Bon Temps  who is a little different she has the ability to read people's minds , her boss Sam Merlot is a shape shifter  ,and the bar's new favorite customer Bill Compton is Bon Temps newest vampire all become the main players to clear Jason's name.  The way that Ms. Harris writes her characters and develops those, unlike most books about super natural characters, make them highly believable not that I believe in super natural creatures but her skill makes these characters truly believable.  Even though most of the characters have known each other for a long time Ms Harris does not include a lot of inside jokes and or references that make you feel like you are walking in half way through a conversation. The way the characters develop during this book wants you to know more about them and see how things develop for them.  I have read other books in the series so I know how they develop and in re reading this book it has opened my eyes as to how certain characters act in this novel is a well orchestrated smoke screen and it adds to the intrigue of the book.  As the book goes through the story line we are introduced to characters such as Eric Northman and his partner Pam, these characters become important in the future but as to this story learning the ins and outs of the vampire chain of command makes for a more interesting mix as to why Bill acts the way he does with Sookie and why she is so important to the actions of the super naturals in Louisiana and the surrounding states.  There are little plot lines going throughout the book that make this a very interesting read even for those that are not into fantasy or super naturals. For those of you that like I are fans of the series "True Blood" on HBO this book may having you scratching you head or say no that's not it is suppose to happen keep in mind Ms Harris and Mr. Ball [Alan Ball director of the series on HBO] do talk and as she has said "I don't tell him how to write scripts and he doesn't tell me how to write books".  All in all this is a great read and it will keep you guessing until the end and it also has you asking for more.
1	1348704000	I was so absolutely ready to fall in love with this book despite the fact that most people I told I was picking it up had a good laugh at my expense. I am not one to raise my nose at what I call "junk food" literature, engaging (or tasty rather!) but lacking real nutrition, but reading this I felt like I was eating flour paste. I devoured all five seasons of the show in less than a week and found it incredibly entertaining if not exactly A+ television, but the book contrasts so starkly. The characters are underdeveloped and the writing rises and falls between short simple sentences all packed together or the occasional inclusion of pretty decent and sometimes funny dialogue. I easily got half way through the book in less than an hour or two of continuous reading and I could have perhaps forgiven the lack of good flowing paragraphs and one dimensional cast, but I could not possibly ignore after the graveyard sex scene how much my inner feminist was cringing in pain.Most women in this book are portrayed as promiscuous, uneducated, unmotivated and trashy except for precious virginal Sookie. This idea alone was enough to make me raise an eyebrow and even beyond the women was the portrayal of every other person having all these horrible terrible thoughts 24/7 and no one with an ounce of decency except again for precious Sookie, who has the personality equivalent of wet paper I realize now that I am no longer trying to force myself into caring. The scene at the graveyard though was the last straw. In the show Sookie and Bill have sex out of relief Bill is not dead and as a way of "making up" from their fight that broke them up for a time. It is a strange scene sure, but filled with genuine feeling. Sookie loves him and he almost died without her reconciling with him. I could see in the whirl of emotions things going crazy. I accepted that.Now in the book it sounds more like Sookie is reluctantly initiating sex as a way to placate Bill from HURTING her out of his strange anger that those vampires that wanted to kill her just a few chapters ago got torched. In the show? Bill couldn't have cared less about those guys, but in the book suddenly they are BFFs. But really, just the idea of a woman acting sexually submissive to refocus a man's anger into sex to avoid being hurt-- vampire or NOT made me half tempted to throw the book across the room. And the fact Sookie flat out expresses that is what she is attempting to do!I could see why a director would see this book as a gold mine. It is like a half baked pitch one might bring into a television broadcaster to try and get a show going and just as unrealized. I wanted so much to like these books and keep myself tided over until s6 of True Blood comes out and later indulge in all the Eric and Sookie scenes, but I could not possibly continue.
4	1348617600	I had already seen all of the True Blood series on TV after choosing to begin reading the books, and I feel like the books are just another way to detail in and see more of life in Bon Temps!  Highly recommend for True Blood fans!
5	1348531200	Can't stop reading. Perfect for light entertainment. Warning: You will be hooked!If you like the TV-show you will also like the books, and vice versa.
4	1348444800	I finally gave in and decided to check out the books after being a major True Blood junkie since season one. And, I'm glad I did.Dead Until Dark was a pretty good read. The premise is extremely original, and offers us a fresh take on the vampire world. The characters are also quite colorful and fleshed out nicely, and the writing is smooth and easy to get into. If I'm being completely honest, I have to admit that the story was a little slow for me but that's probably because I've already seen the show and knew, more or less, what was going to happen in the book. I'm hoping that as the series progresses, and the books and show begin to diverge from each other, the story lines will feel fresher and more intriguing. Hopefully.Luckily, I liked the protagonist, Sookie, just as much as I like her on the show so that's a definite plus. She's a strong lead, but still feminine, and can definitely hold her own. Not at all like some of the other brainless, useless, boring MC's we have to contend with in other books. So big yay!I think it's safe to say I'm definitely going to be continuing with the series, and moving on to book two. I wouldn't hesitate to recommend the book to other readers.
4	1348185600	Great story.  Immediately likeable characters.  I watched the pilot show on HBO and was curious about the book series.  As usual the book blows the show away.  The series is not completely off base with the books.  Sookie is a completely fantastic character.  I see why HBO was interested.  I read the first two books in one weekend.
4	1348185600	This was a fun, easy read. I'm now completely hooked and looking forward to reading the rest of series!  And I just started watching Season 1 of True Blood.
5	1348185600	This book has a great mixture of danger, mystery, and love. The story line is like the TrueBlood TV show, but it does have little things that are different from the show. Because of the differences are what makes the book good. The differences makes it feel like you aren't rereading the TV show. All in all loved the book and reading the next one for sure.
5	1348185600	I really enjoyed the book. Fast past , keeps you interested. If you liked the t.v. series you will like the book as they stayed very close to it.
3	1347753600	I might have liked this more if I had read it before Twilight.  As it was, it seemed like the exact same story, so I was a bit bored with it.  I don't think I will read more of the series, nor do I have a desire to watch True Blood now.  I don't know if I'm just vampired out or what, but it just didn't grab me at all.  I think it would have been different if I read it several years ago when it first came out.
5	1347494400	This book made me want to have a relationship with a vampire.Very sexy... and Sookie is one strong woman... with nerves of steel.Can't wait to see where the next book takes me...
5	1347235200	I have been wanting to start the Sookie Stackhouse series for awhile! I'm so glad that I did. Definitely keeps you interested throughout the whole book!!
4	1346976000	Definitely not the same as the show but I don't feel like it was any less entertaining. I feel the characters are more sincere and real in the book as opposed to the show.
4	1346889600	Loved this book, but there were a few lulls here and there.  Overall great book and can't wait to read the 2nd
4	1346889600	Being a "True Blood" fan, I decided to read some of the books on which it was based. I was not disappointed. The books deliver the same type of entertainment achieved by the HBO series. I will continue to read more of her work.
4	1346198400	First, I read and enjoyed, Lincoln the Vampire Hunter, then I read and enjoyed Harry Dresden in the Storm Front, and now, although a little embarrassed, I read and enjoyed Dead Until Dark. Like The Dresden Files, this is nothing more than a good old fashion who done it murder mystery with a twist. Instead of potions, it is the world of vampires that help in the solving of the crimes.With that said and knowing it was simply fantasy, I can say that I enjoyed the book. As other reviewers have said, this isn't Dickens, but it is a fun read. Yes, at times the writing was a little sophomoric but, really, the book is about vampires and a telepathic, down on her luck, waitress....what were you expecting.Simply a good, fun read
4	1346198400	I am ABSOLUTELY a book worm! I read about 2-3 books a week and am ALWAYS looking for amazing "Paranormal Romance" series books. I enjoy reading series books that incorporate all the PAST books characters while introducing new characters. I enjoy it when I can keep going in a series because I develop feelings for each character (as I read "their" story) and don't like "losing" them!The "Sookie Stackhouse" (aka "True Blood") novels are a really great read. However do NOT expect them to follow the same story lines as the HBO series True Blood! Although they have most of the same characters it is not at ALL like the show. For example, the MAIN love interest is NOT btwn BILL and Sookie...it's btwn ERIC and Sookie....and Lafayette died within the first few chapters of the first book and is not even close to a "significant" character like he is on the show! It's a good read as long as you aren't comparing it to True Blood and can look over all the spelling problems!!My other recommendations (if you enjoyed this series) are:1)The Lords Of the Underworld is one of my FAVORITE series that I have read so far!! It has HOT passionate scenes, comedy, drama, horror....everything you could want in a book!2)My absolute FAVORITE series of all is "The Dark Hunter" series! It has vamps, warewolves, shapeshifters, demons, gods, etc. I cannot say ENOUGH good things about this series!! Make sure to start with "Fantasy Lover" even though it is not a "prerequisite" for the following books. I was SUPER excited when Acheron's book came out even though it was almost as long as the BIBLE! LOL It was the best book I have read in a VERY long time (and like I said, I read a LOT!)3)The "Black Dagger Brotherhood" series is another WONDERFUL paranormal romance (by JR Ward)!! It is probably my second favorite series. I love the alpha males and the STRONG women in these books! I dont care for the books where the women are weak and needy. NONE of these series are like that. MOST of the women are strong and actually SAVE their much bigger and stronger male counterparts. Beware that the first book is a bit hard to get "into." Give it until about the 14th chapter (they are short chapters) and you will be HOOKED! But please dont put it down until you get through those first chapters because it's "slow." If you do then you will miss out on one AMAZING paranormal romance series!4)The "Midnight Breed" series (by Lara Adrian) is another great one! It's another one of my "top rated" paranormal romance series. Honestly ANY of the books that I am listing are amazing! I have enjoyed reading every word of them!Then of COURSE there is the TWILIGHT series!! I have read each of the novels in this series at LEAST 4 times...I have read Breaking Dawn about EIGHT times! I LOVE them! The romance and story is something everyone should read!And (even though it's not "paranormal romance") The Hunger Games books were absolutely AMAZING! I read each book in ONE day and simply could NOT put them down!! EXCELLENT!! :)So thats my quick review of this series and the other books I would HIGHLY recommend the other series books I just listed! I hope this helps some of you decide what series to read next!! :)
5	1346112000	I have been watching the True Blood series, and usually I don't like to watch the series and read the books, but after reading the first book, I think I'll keep going! This book arrived in the mail on Friday evening, and I started reading it on Saturday late morning and finished it by Sunday at 11:30pm. It's a great read, well written, and has a moving plot. I enjoy vampires, supernatural, and mystery, so I am glad I found out that the television show was based on books and finally ordered my own copy. I hope you enjoy, because I sure did!
5	1345939200	WOW this is the first time I have ever read Charlaine Harris and she is a great writer, I stayed on edge the whole time, couldn't wait to see who the killer was and was very surprised when I found out, also was glad to see that Sam was a shapeshifter  it makes the book that much better, glad Sookie will be alright can't wait to read the next book.
2	1345852800	This book was a huge disappointment for me. Maybe it was because of the fact that I had seen TV series first. I was really hopping that book would be better than TV version. But all I got was one fooolish, illogical and getting-on-my-nerves main character Sookie. Sometimes I truly hated her stupid behaviour and it ruined the whole book for me.Moreover, since I watched TV version before, I knew from the begging who the villain was. And this was a huge turn-off for me. So I would REALLY recommend everyone to read the book first before you watch TV series. You will avoid the disappointment and bitterness which I felt when reading this book.
4	1345593600	I'm writing this review for the entire series --SPOILER-FREE--  for anyone thinking about starting them.The heroine, Sookie Stackhouse,  is extremely likeable and the story is written in a casual,talking-to-your-best-girlfriend, kind of way. The story lines are implausible to say the least.  And confusing at times.  And throughout the series you may need to keep a notebook nearby to keep track of all the characters and what side they play for.  Some villains are better than others, and Sookie has a plethora of interesting and otherwordly type lovers, some you will like and some you will wish would just get a silver bullet through the heart already.  If you are a fan of True Blood, the show is very, VERY lightly based off these books.  There is no Baby Vamp Jessica here, and Tara, Pam and Lafayette are almost unrecognizable in their differences from print to screen. Some people get irate because the show doesn't follow the books to the letter.  These are likely the same people who think you have to love the books and hate the show (or vice versa).  But thankfully, you can love them both as I think they complement each other nicely.Despite the negatives, I always look forward to reading these when a new one comes out.  Mainly because they're just plain fun.  And as long as you don't take them too seriously, these will be a welcome addition to your summer beach-bag reading repertoire.
5	1345420800	the series of books is much better than the show! its the types of book you cant stop reading cause it keeps you on the edge the whole time! i like my books hardcover they always arrive in perfect condition and fast shipping too! love amazone!
4	1345334400	I'm a big fan of these books, but I have to say... Had I watched the show before I read these books I would have never bought them. In the book the main character Sookie Stackhouse (in my opinion) is an idiot. She's weak, and lacks a well rounded personality. Her "lover" Bill Compton isn't my cup of tea either. I decided to give it a shot and read through and though I didn't especially LOVE the first book, it was a good story, and the books actually get better and better.
3	1345075200	At a young age Sookie and her brother Jason loses their parents, so they had to go live with their grandparents. Sookie grandmother is the apple of her eye and loves her dearly. Sookie gets a job at this bar as a waitress and her brother is a truck driver. At the bar Sookie serves drinks and Jason comes in to drink and pick up different ladies. One day Bill the main Vampire comes into the bar and she serves him and finds out some interesting things about Bill. Sookie is a telepath, she can read minds but this gift she has been blessed with gets in the way so Sookie decides to put it on the back burner. Sookie and Bill hits it off and have their first date to come to find out Bill is special in his own way, died special...as the romance enhance different waitress is been murdered due to their life style. So now you have romance/mystery/murder all in one big bundle.Bill is died as a door knob and Sookie finds him to good to be true, just because she can't read has mind like the others. Sookie has been dating but always find out the truth before the relationship goes anywhere. Bill is hundred years old to come to find out he can tell Sookie grandmother about her family past that has to do with the war, he agrees to take part in this because he owes Sookie a great debt for saving his life. Bill leaves out with a couple that Sookie knows is blood drainers, the couple drain Vampire blood and sell it for top dollars. She finds Bill knocked out and been drained out in the back parking lot of the bar. Sookie comes to his rescue just in time.Jason finds himself in the police station for questioning about the two murders that he had sexual relationship with, over a period of time he slowly goes back to his old ways and get caught up. Behind the wheel in the parking lot of the bar in his truck, knocked cold out, with blood on his shirt and the alcohol poured all over him. Sookie call the police and Jason is arrested on the grounds of the blood on his shirt which turned out to be the last victim blood. With a tape with evidence that lands him directly to jail, don't pass go, didn't get his two hundred... But with the help from Sookie Jason lands out of jail just in time before the real killer showed its nasty face. It's a shocker who it really turned out to be!Overall the book is a nice read, and I give the book 3 dead Vampires, the title fits perfect because Bill is totally died until Dark. Enjoyable read!
5	1344384000	I don't usually read novels that involve the supernatural or sci-fi, but tried this one because 'Dead Until Dark' was recommended to me, and I was looking for some new authors to read.  (This was a Kindle edition with ~no~ spelling errors.)  I was leery of the vampire theme and element, but plowed on into it.  Much to my delight, I was able to suspend disbelief and thoroughly enjoy this book.  It is well written and held my interest on every page.  There is an subtle element of humor to it on the part of the main character, at times, with her narrative which was most enjoyable.  I will be buying the second book (Kindle edition) in the series, and hope it delivers as well as this one did.
3	1344384000	I wanted to pick up a summer reading series, and being a fan of HBO's True Blood series, I decided to read the Sookie Stackhouse series. I really wanted to like the book but I just couldn't stay interested in it, and at certain parts it was hard to follow what the author was trying to communicate. Overall - I only read this book and don't plan on reading the rest of the series.
5	1343520000	I had checked this out of the library to listen to and enjoyed it so much I had to have it! I got it! (And a few others!) And I love it - It's taken me to a whole new world! A believable world with characters that are so real that I can live there while I'm listening, and be a part of it! Thanks Ms Harris.
5	1343520000	I enjoyed this book very much. I had seen the show True Blood and have always wanted to read the books that inspired the HBO series. Having done so now, I have fallen in love again, with my favorite characters of the show-- Bill and Sookie!Because the narrator is Sookie, and because she often has to listen to EVERYONE's thoughts, the whole plot makes for an interesting read. I also enjoyed Harris' language throughout the book. It's very rich, full of nuances you rarely get to hear, unless you have any friends from the South.Don't expect the whole HBO series to unfold in this one book; I'm on my way to get the next two.
5	1343347200	Okay, everyone. This is one of my first reviews ever so please just bear with me because I'm REALLY new at this. At first I was a bit skeptical when I started this book. I'm an avid reader of anything supernatural. I eat the stuff up. So I thought I read it all when it came to vampires and other things that go bumb in the night. I was very pleasantly surprised. Like the title of my review says Charlaine Harris's Sookie Stackouse series puts a new and modern spin on your average vampire tale. I've read every book in tne series and I absolutely love it. Dead Until Dark is the first book in the series. This is where we meet Sookie Stackhouse. Sookie works as a waitress at a bar/restaurant called Merlottes. Right off the bat I really like Sookie's character. She's just your average pretty, small town girl. Well maybe she's not quite what I'd call average. Sookie is a telepath. She's able to read people minds. She's had to deal with the "disability" her whole life and she manages relatively well. Sookie has always wanted more than the monotony of small time life. She craves excitement and adventure. Well her wish seems to have come true when a vampire comes into the bar. See a few years previously the vampires "came out" to world due to the Japanese scientists inventing a type of sythentic blood that provides the vampires the sustenance they need to survive. This vampire's name is Bill. I don't want to give away too much but a little bit later Sookie ends up saving Bills life. And from there it just gets better and better.Harris's writing style is smooth and fast paced. She gives enough of a background story and puts in enough detail so that the reader isn't confused but not so much as to where I got bored. The characters are well developed. Within a couple of chapters I was invested in tje story and I cared about what happened to the characters. That's one of the main things I love about Charlaine Harris's writing. I feel like I know the characters. If you're into supernatural types of books then I definately recommend this one. This book/series has it all... the supernatural, action, a bit of romance, mystery you name it. I also recommend that you go ahead and pick up book 2 in the series because once you finish this you'll definately want to keep reading.
4	1343260800	I have read both "Interview With a Vampire" and the entire "Twilight" series. I was curious about Charlaine Harris' novels. I was really glad I read this book.  It's so much fun and reads very quickly.  Sookie Stackhouse is a very interesting and inspiring heroine.  She stands up for herself, right from the outset of the novel and yet still comes across as very real and vulnerable.  I haven't yet moved on to the rest of the Sookie novels, but I'm sure I will.  I highly recommend this book!
4	1343088000	Don't be apprehensive if you've already watched the show. As the books progress, you'll see that there are some variations to the storyline. Initially, as a big fan of the show, I was leary that it might somehow take from my enjoyment of the program.On the contrary, it enhanced my experience by getting in deeper, so-to-speack. The books are tightly intermixing plots and give greater details into the inner-workings of Sookie's mind. Even more so than the show.I recommend this to a program fan, if not for any other reason - the books last longer than an hour!
2	1343001600	If you like good books, and loved the first couple of seasons of True Blood, stick to the series.  As much as it is physically painful for me to recommend any movie or television series over a book, in this case, it's simply the better choice.  Charlaine Harris's story concept is good, but Alan Ball is truly a far better writer.A few things you should know while considering reading the books:1. If Tara is your favorite character, don't pick this book up.  Spoiler alert:  She's not in it.  At all.  Not even an aside.  The Lafayette character has a severly limited role as well.2. The Sookie character in the book--not nearly as intriguing as Sookie in True Blood season 1.  Actually, she's kind of childish and mildly annoying.3. The writing is really not great.  Anne Rice did literature better justice in the Vampire Chronicles.  This reads like it was written by a 16-year-old.  Honestly, it lacks the vocabulary of the Harry Potter books.If you're still curious about the origin of the Sookie Stackhouse stories, pick up the first book as a second-hand paperback.  I would recommend against purchasing more than the first book at one time, though.
5	1342828800	Charlaine Harris has moved her considerable skill with mystery novels into the fantasy genre with total success. I have now read four of the novels in the Sookie Stackhouse series and loved them all. These novels are the take off point for the HBO series "True Blood". I think the original novels are much better than the TV series (which I am now watching anyway).
5	1342137600	As the Author ofPossessions (The Possessions Saga). I know a thing or two about vampires. So I can tell you with all honesty that if you are looking for dark and tantalizing story about vampires this is definitely the right book for you. In fact this book helped inspire me to write my book. So here is what the Author does best.Dead until Dark's characters are both engaging and believable, as I read this I found myself saying "Hey, I could see it." That is the biggest compliment you could receive being able to assimilate the story into real life.For people who like stories about the paranormal, vampires, and supernatural this story is for you. An enjoyable tale that helps you spend a few hours in an enjoyable world of darkness. Great read. I highly recommend this for ages 16 and up.
3	1341792000	Vampires have been living mainstream along with humans in the world ever since Japan invented a drink called "True Blood". This drink gives vampire all the nutrients they need to survive so they no longer need to feed off humans (although some do anyway since humans apparently taste better). The story is narrated by Sookie Stackhouse, a southern waitress who can read minds. She runs into a vampire named Bill Compton and subsequently saves his life. They grow a relationship (and I mean a very close relationship) and not everyone in her small town approves. Sookie has to adjust to her new boyfriend's life and his vampire acquaintances, while coping with the criticism of her human friends. Meanwhile a serial killer is on the loose, targeting "fangbangers" (a derogatory term used to describe people who "bang" vampires). Since Sookie is now on the hit list, she must use her psychic abilities to find out who this murderer is for Bill's safety and for her own safety.Apparently the American South is full of vampires! Who knew. This is the second vampire novel I read this year (Abraham Lincoln apparently couldn't get rid of all the evil vampires in the south) and the raciest book I've read yet. I think the premise of the books are very different and quite entertaining actually. I read the second book, Living Dead in Dallas, but after the scene with the orgy, I had to retire the series. It just wasn't for me. And it's not for any young teens either.
4	1341532800	The author does a great job of setting the scene. I can't wait to read the rest of the series!
5	1340668800	I've watched the HBO series True Blood and that is what finally prompted me to read the series.  Well I was surprised that the tv show was so far from the books but it was a fresh take on the story which was great!  I can't wait to read the other books.
5	1340496000	This is a book that has a suspense filled story that keeps you reading. Based with love and vampires is a great read!
5	1340150400	it's a great story, i have been watching true blood for years & i decided to read the book series that got it all started. it's a great read, it draws you in!
5	1339718400	I have to confess, I only read this book after watching "True Blood" on HBO.  I have always thought that the book is always better than the movie/tv show, and, once again, the rule holds true!This book was a quick, fun read.  I picked it up at the airport for something to read on my flight and managed to finish it within two hours.  Unlike some popular authors, Ms. Harris writes pretty well and manages to capture the atmosphere of a small southern town very well, without feeling the need to include the tired stereotype of all southerners being dumb hicks, making the book even more enjoyable.I am looking forward to reading the rest of the series and finding out what happens to Sookie and the rest of the residents of Bon Temps!
4	1338681600	Sookie Stackhouse is your typical everyday Southern gal.  She works as a waitress in Merlotte's bar and has lived in her small town of Bon Temps' since she was born.  But Sookie has a little bit of a disability: she's burdened with hearing the thoughts of others.  Keeping her guard up against these mental intruders is almost a full-time job and Sookie is tired of it.  Thus, when she meets a stranger whose mind is closed to her, she is drawn to him by his silence.  Spending time with him is like finding a haven in a storm.  The only problem?  Her new friend Bill Compton is just slightly dead (although, according to the current vampire propaganda, released when vampires became a legal minority, he's really just the victim of a strange virus...)  Can Sookie and Bill form a truly stable and lasting relationship?  They certainly are compatible, both physically and emotionally, but is that enough?  As if her social life weren't problem enough, Sookie's life becomes even more chaotic when a slew of murders occurs in Bon Temps.  Each victim has vampire wounds on their body and suspicion soon focuses both on Sookie's new love interest and on her brother.  She's sure that both are innocent, but how can she prove it?  And can she do it before the killer comes after her?My sister has been a fan of this series for a long time and has constantly encouraged me to read it.  As I don't particularly enjoy books about vampires, it took her a while to break me down.  I've finally given in, though, and I must admit that she wasn't wrong.  Reading this intricately plotted book and watching its characters grow and change was certainly entertaining.  I found Sookie to be a likable heroine.  Seeing how the plot twists that changed her world affected her psyche was interesting.  Harris's use of a heroine who has at least some apparent spiritual belief and relatively conservative morals in a book about vampires that is heavily laced with sexual overtones was a bit strange but it worked nonetheless.  Though I can't say that I liked the book enough to want to read the rest of the series, I still have to give it a good review because it did keep me involved and interested until the end.
3	1338508800	Now I know why I've been hearing about this series for so long... lots of sex. There isn't that much bad language though, but if these things offend thee, seek thy reading elsewhere.With 900 reviews already here, there's not much for me to add except for a few brief personal observations, both of which I feel are critical to assessing whether you will enjoy this book. First, it's well written. Ms. Harris has a way of plotting that is rather unique. All of the events or possible turnings that other writers would make into 'something important' --which the reader would guess would happen-- she has Sookie mention as obvious. And what a relief! Imagine a character as intelligent as her audience.Second thought is that the book could have been shorter. Lots of good stuff here, but I got a tad impatient.Worth looking at if you want a fun read. Innovative and refreshing.Pam T~
5	1337990400	Charlaine Harris has wonderfully crafted the vampire legacy into modern times, where vampires are now legal. Japanese develop a synthetic blood, TrueBlood, making it possible for vampires to live among the living.Sookie Stackhouse lives with her grandma in a small town called Bons Temp, Louisiana. She works as a waitress at Merlottes, but she's not like other waitresses. She can read people's minds. Sookie considers this to be a disability. It's hard for her to date anyone when she knows everyone's thoughts. Her life is turned upside down when a dark, handsome vampire named Bill Compton steps inside Merlottes. Bill's over one hundred years old, and is the first vampire in Bons Temp.Sookie rescues Bill from the Rattrays, who wanted to drain his blood for drug uses. Unable to read Bill's thoughts, Sookie starts to fall for the vampire, which causes problems between Sookie and her boss Sam Merlottes. Sam has a crush on her, and is hiding a dark secret. As she gets closer to Bill, there are several deaths, fang-bangers, in the town, and one death hits close to home. The main suspect is Sookie's womanizing brother, Jason, who's had a relationships with all of the victims.Sookie must use her telepathic powers to find the killer before she's the next victim.Humor and clever writing highlight this book above other vampire novels. The quirky characters and plot twists keep you interested until the very end.
5	1337299200	I finally decided to read this book after being a fan of the HBO series for years. I'm really glad I did because I loved every page of it.THE GOOD: Sookie's character is a lot of fun and seeing the world through the innocent perspective was refreshing. She makes hilarious observations about people and I love her Southern charm. I felt as if she was a real person that I'd enjoy sitting on the porch with, sipping lemonade.Building a character that is three-dimensional is no easy task. But Charlaine Harris has definitely conquered that aspect. I also gained a deeper understanding of Sookie's personality. In the TV series, she comes off ditzy at first. In the book, we come to understand it's because she's lived her whole life trying to block out people's thoughts. She always seems to be straddling the boundaries of her world and everyone else.The storyline was complex and layered, yet it felt like an easy read. A lot of transformation takes place in a short time, but it always seems balanced with just the right amount of information. I never got bored or felt like it dragged on.I also thought Bill was much sweeter in the book. He was more human, if that makes sense. There were little things Sookie observed like his laughter and the glow of his skin. These are things a person would notice when they'd just fallen in love.The book is pretty consistent with the TV series, although Tara is noticeably absent and a lot of the side stories are left out. The book is written in first person from Sookie's point of view, so if it wasn't something she saw with her own eyes, it wasn't part of the book.THE BAD: A pivotal death takes place and yet it hardly seems to affect Sookie. She's sad for about one day, sheds some tears, and then it's over. There should have been much more depth to her suffering.I also think some of the other characters were underdeveloped. Near the end, I remember this flood of names and I had to strain to remember who they were. Since their characters weren't really explored in the book, it was hard to attach a name to a personality. In fact I think I was only able to keep them straight because I recalled them visually from the TV show.There are many references to Bill's breathing in the story. How is he breathing? He'd dead. I realize this is fantasy, but felt the author kept magnifying a plot hole.OVERALL: Fun, quirky characters blend with dark humor, nail biting murder and suspense. I'm hooked and will be reading the next book right away!
4	1337299200	Although the ending was pretty lame, overall the reading was good for the most part.  I learnt a lot about vampires and enjoyed it.
3	1336953600	I read this book after finishing the Twilight series and did not enjoy at all. I will not be reading any of the other b
4	1336521600	Oddly I picked this book up in a book store at least 6 years ago or so, and guess what? I put it back on the shelf! It didn't grab me the first time, but this time around, simply put, this book was great!  I'm going to start with the end and work my way back.  It was down to the wire, in the last 30 pages or so before the killer was revealed.  I was extremely happy that the villain wasn't given away early.  I usually can figure it out pretty quickly, but this time I couldn't. I even tried to remember who the villain was of True Blood season one and it totally escaped me until the end of the book, then I was like "Oh, yea!"  I won't give anything away, but the book was definitely in line with season one of HBO's version.To read the rest of my review visit: [...]
4	1336176000	Trashy Literature never tasted so good.I'm going to be honest for a second here. I think that this book/ the Southern Vampire Mysteries Series as a whole are going to be huge proponents for the e-reader market. Aside from the fact that they are released every year (that is.... until the last book comes out next year), they are also pretty cheap in e-book form. But, in my opinion, these will be great for e-reader sales because its so much easier to read books like this when no one can see the cover of the novel you're reading.Oof. That's rough. But kind of honest. This is a good book, but not the type that you'd want your mother, english professor, or future lover to see you reading... unless he/she also is reading it, too. This book has started a cultural phenomenon with the HBO show,True Blood, and the steam shows no where of stopping with the book series (although I can't say that about the show...). Even as a teenage guy, I found myself attracted to this trend and decided to check these books out.I will never look back.Dead Until Dark by Charlaine Harris is the first entry in the loooooong Southern Vampire Mysteries Series. It stars Sookie Sackhouse, a telepathic barmaid who finds rest in Vampire Bill Compton, whose mind she cannot read. Sookie lives in a world where vampires have come-out-of-the-coffin and are living in the public eye, although, not everyone is happy about it. In this entry, someone has begun going around Bon Temps, Louisiana (Sookie's home town) and killing a lot of "fang-bangers", women who have sex with vampires. You'll notice that Sookie herself fits that group description... bum-bum-bum!As a whole, what should be a lame and downright cheesy plot ends up working very well. What's so interesting about the public-eye vampire mechanic is that even though these creatures are in plain sight where everyone can see them, that only adds more mystery and intrigue to these supernatural creatures.Sookie Stackhouse represents a new female ideal for heroines in novels. She is sweet, sassy, and knows just when to be a sexy bad ass and when to ask for help. She is a liberated woman, but not a feminist. She is after my own heart. I can say the same about her suitors, too. Bill Compton, a perfect southern gentleman, and Eric, a suspicious but interesting Swedish Vampire.Although some of the later volumes in this series get tedious (#6, #8, #9, #10), with the release ofDeadlocked (Sookie Stackhouse, Book 12), things seem to be turning around. I highly recommend that even if you don't want to read the whole series, then pick just this one up as a standalone. Although you may want to do it on your Kindle or other E-reading device...
3	1336003200	I read Dead Until Dark after a friend suggested the series to me. I did enjoy the read, but it was not really what I expected it to be. For example, I was not expecting to read about vampire sex. I'm still undecided as to whether or not Sookie Stackhouse (Harris' main character), is a Necrophiliac or not. Vampires are dead, but not dead, so the jury is still out on that issue. Aside from that, I found the book to be an easy and fast-paced read with solid and likable characters.
4	1335312000	4 1/2 starsUsually when books, movies, etc., have been praised to the skies I end updisappointed, as they don't seem THAT good.  I'd been waiting for thisbook for a long time, way before the TV show (True Blood), wantingit to get cheap enough to buy as a guilty pleasure book.  Finally theprice came down, more friends recommended it to me, and I got it.Even then I let it sit around for a few weeks while I finished otherbooks.  Three days after I started it, I'm done, and I loved it.  It'sspunky, sexy, violent, witty, funny, dramatic, well-written, withmostly interesting and realistic-feeling characters, and was a great read.It's deep South setting seemed just right.  I've ordered the next one andcan't wait.  I didn't know who the killer was until near the end.  I lovedBill the Vampire.  And of course, Bubba.If you've been resisting, buy it and read it.  It's an easy and exciting read.
4	1335312000	Despite my love of the Twilight series, I have somehow managed to avoid every other vampire novel and TV series - no Anne Rice, no Vampire Diaries, and, until now, no Stookie Stackhouse/True Blood. But yes, I've finally gone over to the dark side. Dead Until Dark was a very enjoyable easy read. I like too that it explores some of the weird questions that stories about vampires tend to raise, and which Twilight tends to gloss over. And no, I'm not going to go into detail about what those weird questions are - if you read vampire novels you'll know what I mean. If you don't, well, let's just move on...
3	1335312000	I'm a fan of True Blood, and I wanted to check out the original source material and see how different it was.  I was shocked that Tara was not a character, she's a great sidekick to Sookie.  And Lafeyette has like three lines the entire book.The show takes a lot of license to the source material. Some one note characters are fully fleshed out.  A lot of events which take place in the True Blood are not in this book the finale in this book is so weak to what they did in the show.  The best chapter is the Mind reading scene at Fangtasia, that scene even though i knew what was going to happen was still intense.  The book does have some funny moments most that were captured in the show.The voice of the characters is very present. and the casting for True Blood is right on and was hard to imagine anyone else playing these characters.I would recommend skipping the book here, and this is coming from a person that almost always says the book is better than the movie, but here the book is not better than the show. the show has so many levels while the book is a very one dimentional.
4	1334534400	I'll be the first to admit that I don't read very much, but my sister turned me on to these books and I just love them. They're funny, sexy and all around fun. I'm glad I was able to read before watching the Tv show, because the stories aren't exactly the same.I love how the characters are all damaged in their own way. And the conversations are witty. Anyway, I'm a Sookie fan (and Eric of course!)now.
3	1334275200	I was hoping to be more impressed I suppose. So many of my friends adore this series and I'm usually a little more in tune with them than I was while reading this. I'm glad I didn't buy the set of the first 8 that I was considering, because I'm not sure I want to continue into the series or not. Perhaps watching True Blood will be more interesting. I found the writing and the pacing of the story a little awkward, maybe that's just me personally.
5	1333756800	As a general rule I much prefer to read a book prior to watching the TV show but I have to admit to watching the Trueblood show before purchasing the book. Ever since I first turned on to watch Trueblood I have promised myself that I would read the book and I'm so glad that I did! Written from the first person perspective you get a deeper insight into Sookie's personality and are quarry to her thoughts whereas in the TV show it's much harder to understand her motives. I was quite obviously familiar with the story and the world in which the books were set but found that there were a few substantial differences between the two which stopped me from predicting exactly what was going to happen to the characters and to the storyline in general. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and I haven't enjoyed a book this much since readingTHE FOREVER GIRL (an Urban Fantasy / Paranormal Romance Novel of the Occult) (Forever Girl Series #1)which is similar in style but a lighter read.
5	1333584000	won't be my last. She's a remarkably entertaining story teller. The pacing was so smooth; the build-up so gradual but effective. The characters came to life. While there are love scenes, most of the action is glossed over, so it's safe for the shy (or those like myself who can't bear graphic love scenes in audio). I thought the mystery was good, but I'm not really all that much of a mystery buff (unless you include Stephanie Plum and the In Death series), so I suppose I'm not a great judge. There's humor, but it's more subtle and occasional than books billed as hilarious. I enjoyed the surprises that turned up here and there, as well.  I intend to read the next book in the series, either via Kindle or Audible.
3	1333238400	Interesting.I wasn't sure about this one going in. I saw a couple of episodes of True Blood, so I knew half the story - the show was pretty faithful. Beyond that I had only what I'd heard to go on, and that was wildly diverse.It was ... interesting. Sookie is a very different sort of narrator, a very different sort of protagonist; there's her "gift", yes, but mostly it's her voice: not educated, but not stupid. She's nave, in some ways; she's ignorant, in a lot of ways - but now all ways; she's frank, honest to a fault, and pretty fearless. I like her. I have to hand it to Charlaine Harris for creating a completely different voice. But does it become somewhat annoying now and then? Well, yeah. Unfortunately, it does.I wanted to like the story. The take on vampires is as different as the narrative voice, as they work their way through integration into society - or not. Again, credit goes to Harris for something new. (The title's very good too.)But I just wasn't into it. There were quite a few things to like, and I liked them fine. But I just didn't find it enjoyable, and there was a point where in classic Fonzie fashion the book jumped the shark - not something a series does for several books, usually, but ... really? I won't spill the identity of the Personage who makes an appearance as an ill-made vampire (Harris herself never uses his name, which was coy to the point of foolishness), but the whole sequence involving this person created echoes of revving motorcycle engines in my mind. Funny - Jim Morrison showing up as Not Dead in The Stand didn't trouble me; I liked what King did there. This was very different. And it stuck a stake in the heart of the book. So to speak.
5	1332892800	loved this book got the series started off GREAT!! i love the vamp theme & sam :) i love that she has a brother like jason & vamps are out in the open.. TRUE BLOOD!!
3	1332460800	I like the book.  It was my first vampire story and I'm not sure that is my favorite type of genre.  The story like was fun to follow as were the characters.  It was a bit graphic for me.  I would rather use my imagination to fill in the blanks.  I would recommend it if you are a vampire groupy.
4	1332201600	I like all the Sookie books. It's nice, because you don't ness. have to read them in order to enjoy and understand whats going on. I like her love interests and her morality.
2	1332201600	Let me tell you what I expected here. I was looking forward to a quick, mindless, entertaining read. I can be kind of a snob about books, and I purposefully tried to put that aside to read this one....but I didn't do a good enough job of it. Quick? Yes. Mindless? Absolutely. Entertaining? Unfortunately, no.I haven't read a lot of vampire fiction, and maybe it's just not my thing. I did, however, like the twist that vampires were publicly known (if not exactly accepted), and I thought Harris cleverly drew similarities to race relations historically (and not so historically).Aside from that, though, the book was terribly disappointing. At first, I thought that maybe Harris had done a really great job in creating this vampire world, but a little bit of research shows that a lot of the details (such as glamouring) were pulled from existing vampire lore. The characters were one-dimensional and, frankly, annoying. She tries to build up suspense by dropping hints of what's about to come up, but because the hints aren't subtle enough, they do the exact opposite of what they were intended to do. And the sex scenes were more awkward than sexy.I will not be reading more of the series.
5	1330560000	I'm a lover of all things vampire and paranormal. I've read all the major YA series' that are out there. I had been looking for a vampire series geared towards adults, and I randomly came across this book online. I figured I'd give it a try, I was not let down. I read through it in one night, it was that good. In fact, I think I've read it probably five times, I love it that much. I love Sookie, and I love, love, love Eric.
4	1330560000	I decided to read this book because I enjoyed season one of HBO True Blood. So I bought the book. I really liked it and now I'm reading the other books of the series. I am NOT a vampire fan, never read Twilight (and don't plan to), so I was not the audience for this novel. However, I found the novel is very entertaining, has a good pace and has some cool original twists. It is an easy reading, something that I save for vacation days or days that I don't want to challenge myself with something a bit more serious. Also, I now enjoy the books in the series better than the HBO show. I haven't finished the entire book series yet, but this far I am enjoying every book, and this one I definitely recommend.
5	1330560000	Was very cute and had fun reading it. I keep hearing about the series being the reason for the true blood show, so I thought I would give it a try. Haven't given in yet to watch the show yet, but  i probably will now!
2	1330214400	I gave it a two only because it did hold my interest enough to finish, but it really was not a great book. The writing was OK, I never felt like I cared about the characters, and the plot seemed quite random. I won't say the ending but it was weird. I like this type of story so I thought I would like this book and was really hoping to get into it, but it fell pretty short.
4	1330128000	Would you listen to Dead Until Dark again? Why?I think I would listen to it again. I would do so because I've forgotten so much and I want to finish the series. It's hard to remember what happen in the books vs the TV show.Was this a book you wanted to listen to all in one sitting?I can't say it was.Any additional comments?True Blood is a good show, this is a good series. Yet I don't think they are at all related. True Blood took a departure from the books and became it's own thing.
4	1329264000	Dead Until Dark takes place in modern day Bon Temp, a small town just outside of Louisiana.  Vampires have recently revealed their existence to the world and are now trying to live side-by-side with humans.  Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress and unwilling telepath, is instantly intrigued when she meets the vampire Bill Compton.  Bill's arrival in Bon Temp isn't the only strange thing in town.  Someone is killing young women who associate with vampires.This book had romance, mystery, and a bit of humor.  I really liked the idea of vampires trying to "go mainstream" and thought many of the reactions described by Ms. Harris were funny and plausible.  The protagonist, Sookie, is stubborn and humorously oblivious.  The romance develops a little too quickly for my taste and I find some of the arguments childish, but some people will probably see this as part of Sookie's charm.I have watched the HBO series, True Blood and would probably rate the books better than the series although the television show spends more time developing the supporting characters.
5	1329264000	I'm a fan of the books and the tv show, these are very good stories and I can't put them down! I've read the whole series so far!!
5	1328054400	How can you not like this? This has become one of my favs! I am going to devour this series.
4	1327536000	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse, Book 1)by Charlaine Harris; Oh ha ha ha! So Stephanie Meyer DIDN'T think up the whole vampire-werewolf-beautiful girl menage-a-trois by herself?? If I was Ms. Harris I'd be suing Stephanie Meyer for at least a portion of the gazillions she made off of her blatant ripoff... oh wait.. how'd I like the book? Funny, much sexier than Bella and Edward, and Sookie is SO much better at taking care of herself. I laughed, snickered and ROFLedMAO at Bubba.
4	1327536000	Meet Sookie Stackhouse, a peculiar young waitress who sees the world through different eyes, thanks to her "disability."  In her world vampires have "come out of the coffin" and she is about to get to know a lot more about them.  Meanwhile there is a killer on the loose in her small town and she may be in danger.One of the things that I really liked about this book is the portrayal of good/bad regarding the vampires.  Just like humans in real life, there are varying degrees of good and bad.  It is just a little more extreme, because they a super strong blood sucking fiends.  This creates a delicious darkness that underlies the whole story.  Although I am not sure that vampires should glow, hmmm.The murder mystery plot of the story was solid, good suspense and sense of danger to the main character.  Also, it is a great device to introduce the myriad of characters that we meet in this first book of the series.Sookie herself is a great character.  She is a nave and innocent, yet she is also a bit of a sage.  Her matter-of-fact perspective is unique and refreshing.I look forward to continuing on with the other books in the series.  I hope that they are as good as the first.
5	1327449600	What are great series of books! I was pulled in by the first book and love sookie stackhouse!! An interesting store line and lots of romance and sex. I am by no means a romance novel reader and this is far from being one but the story line and the characters in this book are amazing. These books are what True Blood on HBO is based on,but the books are so much better.
1	1327363200	Boy, do I despise getting my hopes up. There was so much hype and talk about this series that I was absolutely sure I'd like it. So, what did my dumb-ass self do? Bought the first NINE books. *bashes face into keyboard*Aside from the obviously novice prose, there were so many things that were absolutely awful and wrong with this book that I don't even know where to start.Brace yourself, this is going to be long. If you liked this book, you should probably stop reading now.So, I guess I'll tackle Sookie herself first. I couldn't stand her....To see the rest of this review and other book reviews by me, see my blog at geobobspinelli[dot]blogspot[dot]com
3	1327190400	One night when I was at soldier boy's and we didn't have much to do, I told him to just go ahead and put on the latest episode of True Blood because I wanted to see if I liked it (I can usually tell if I'm going to like a show regardless of where I pick up an episode). So we watched it, I really liked it and I went and bought the first season. I devoured it and now I'm just waiting for the second season to arrive (which should be today, yay!). Late bloomer, I know. I haven't had HBO in years and I don't regularly watch TV. Story of my life. But I knew I had this book in the pile because I've had people bugging me to try it out for a while now. So after nomming Season 1 of the TV show, it was time I take a look at the books and see how they compare.I like the show better. MUCH better. SO MUCH better. Now, I don't know if I like it better because I saw it before reading the books. HBO did fluff it up quite a bit: made it sexier, added more subplots and characters and Season 1 parallels DEAD UNTIL DARK really closely. I was just not nearly as excited about the book as I am about the show. I liked the authenticity of the voice. I really believed that, I could see Sookie's surroundings as she spoke and I could feel the setting. That was the most vivid part of the writing for me. Plus Sookie isn't made out to be some Plain Jane that all the boys drool after. Super kudos for that. She's cute with a big rack and she knows it. She just can't do much about it. I liked that.DEAD UNTIL DARK was entertaining enough and it probably helped that I had images from the show to supplement my reading but overall, I felt the writing was kind of lackluster. Sookie, in the book, is a bit monotone for my taste. All of the descriptions are really simple (because of the character, not that she's simple, she's just not all that highly educated) and I felt that the story was more about spitting out the information that letting it simmer and seep in. I didn't feel all that engaged in her and Bill's relationship and when the murders kept happening, and then the final scene with the murderer, I just wasn't feeling it. I wanted to because I like the show so much but the writing just lacks this pizazz that I think HBO found and amped up.Maybe I'm not being fair but it's not like I can take back that I've already started watching the show and re-read the book with virgin eyes. DEAD UNTIL DARK is pretty entertaining but I've read far more gripping books than this with characters that pop out instead of just amble around the plot.Maybe it's because it's the first book in the series but it could be one of the reasons why I wasn't all that engaged was because there was hardly anything else going on other than Sookie and Bill. Yeah, you have Sam but that's kind of spit out at the end as an afterthought (whereas in the show it's foreshadowed a lot) but not much branches off of that one plot line. And because that one plot line wasn't all that thrilling for me, there wasn't much else I could latch onto to keep me going through it. I wouldn't say I was bored at all but I just wasn't all that jazzed about it.I will absolutely keep watching the seasons as they come (hell, I have three to catch up on and I'm trying my damndest not to spoil myself with the ending of Season 4). As for the books? I'll have to dip into my trusted sources and see if they'd be worth my while. If they say the writing progresses and the stories get more involved, I might take a chance. As it stands now, I'm not leaning that way.
5	1326758400	A friend of mine bought mebthe entire series because she liked them so much, Harris is amazing at keeping you dying to read the next page! After you read this book you'll want to read the rest.
1	1326153600	So I've started reading this book because a freind of mine recommended it to me. I am only half way through it, and am finding it hard to continue. I MAY finish the first one, but I'm positive there will be no second novel for me.This book is just plain awful. That is about the only way I can say is. The characters are awful, the story line is ridiculous, and the writing is just bad.The character of Sookie is a terrible character. She is pretty much perfect. Prety face and body, no serious personality flaws. Ok, so she does have her "disability," and sure, if you actually CAN read minds, I'm sure it would get old eventually, but for an audience who obviously CAN NOT, that doesn't exactly make for a compelling character flaw. And while Sookie talks constantly about being seen as a weirdo in her town, other than the occasional use of the word "weird," everyone in town seems to love her.Most of the other minor characters, while there are several of them with several different personalities, are still not complex enough to contribute to the horribly lacking story line. In fact, the most complex character I've seen so far is the brother, Jason, and he is still too under developed to be worth anything.Already, within the very first chapter we have an absolutely absurd scene. A young, pretty waitress who somehow manages to beat the crud out of TWO thugs (a white-trash couple who have been in jail and you would think would know how to defend themselves) in defence of a complete and utter stranger. Really? You're kidding me?Next, we have the deaths that start occuring around town. The first  should be a little spooky, and the characters act relatively appropriately, although you would think the death of someone you even slightly know would be more shocking. The seem a little surprised, however, then completely dismiss it.The next, Sookie's coworker, should be devestating, particularly to the main character who actually discovers the body. However, how does she react? A little freaking out, calling police, then we get to listen to her thinking about her ex-boyfriend who takes the oportunity to try to get a date with her. Why is that important? I thought we were suposed to be focusing on the DEAD WOMAN nearby! And then Sookie just goes straight to work where she casually tells others that her co-worker is dead. Yeah, beause that's realistic.Reactions such as this continue throughout at least the first half of the book. (Still not finished, may never be.)I just simply didn't know how to react to this novel other than with absolute disgust. I honestly can't see how someone would actually give it a good review.For my full review of the novel, please visit my blog where I talk about it further:[...]Beware of Spoilers.
5	1325721600	Could not put this book down.  I have watched the True Blood series on HBO and finally started on the book series.  I am glad I did.
1	1325376000	This review is exclusively for the editor (at least to my knowledge) of the Kindle version of this book. I really like this story so far and it has really grabbed my interest.  The problem however is that whoever edited these books did the poorest job I have seen so far. As an avid reader as well as an English Major I am absolutely appalled by the grammar in these books. There are dozens upon dozens of grammatical errors in both Dead Until Dark, as well as Living Dead in Dallas. There are so many grammatical errors that I am not sure if I can stand to finish reading it.
3	1325116800	I kept reading, so that's a good thing.  But sometimes you find a book that doesn't completely grip you, and this was one of those.
5	1323993600	I have read other Charlaine Harris books (such as the Aurora Teagarden series) and also enjoy the series True Blood, which is based on this series, so I decided to check out the books and I wasn't disappointed. While I really like the tv show, the books, which are slightly different in plot and character, are even more fun. Harris is a fine writer, and her work is informed by humor, which is always a plus in my book. Narrated by Sookie Stackhouse, the smart-alecky psychic waitress at a local tavern in Bon Temps, Louisiana, this book begins with Sookie's first meeting with a vampire, Bill. Now that bottled synthetic blood is available, vampires have come out of the closet, so to speak; Bill is from a much earlier Bon Temps -- he fought in the Civil War! -- and he wants to move back into the family homestead and get to know his neighbors. Sookie is fascinated by him, particularly since she cannot read his thoughts, and so finds peace when in his company. But that's not all. Bill and Sookie hit it off, and once they start hanging out together Sookie meets more vampires, some of whom aren't nearly as nice as Bill. Oh yeah, there's also a serial killer attacking women in the area. Local authorities assume the perpetrator is a vampire, but Sookie's brother also falls under suspicion. Suddenly everything is quite complicated. This book is lots of fun, of interest to watchers and non-watchers of the series, vampire lovers and Harris fans.
5	1323734400	My wife and I love the Sookie Stackhouse series and have listened to every book in the series via audio CD.  On top of a great story the book is read by Johanna Parker who is the best reader and voice talent of the entire list of more than 100 audio books we have listened to.The story line is funny and scary and exciting and this one book encompasses the entire first season of the series on TV.  Sookie is just a great character who wants to be a normal person but has a little problem in that she can read minds.  She is constantly in the middle of everything because of her gift, her brazen behavior, her bravery and strong personality. The entire series is great reading, or listening, and the story just gets better as the series goes along.Charlaine Harris is a very good story teller who writes books with interesting characters, suspense and funny situations.  Involving vampires, shape shifters and a telepathic bar waitress like Sookie made the story interesting and the book just flowed.  Sookie's crazy and always in trouble brother just adds more color to the story line.  This is the first book in the series so make sure you start here.  We loved this book and you will too!
1	1323561600	I thought, by the photo of the product, that I was getting the box set. NOT just ONE book. For what I paid I could have gotten TWO books at Barns & NobelI thought I was getting a GREAT deal, $10.20 for the whole set when the set costs $63 at Barns & Nobel. But, not so. Very disappointed in how the item is represented, misleading and the first time I'm let down by Amazon.
3	1322265600	It was fun and short. The first-person voice was strong and unique. Sookie is a likeable and believable character. The chapters weren't too short or too long; they were just right for my taste. All the -ly adverbs in the dialogue killed it for me. By the time I neared the end of the book it became highly annoying to read. Unfortunately, I won't be reading the rest of the books in the series.
5	1322179200	love the show and the book is just like it,love it and the book is even more  detailed then the show great writing
5	1321920000	I'm not a fantasy genre fan neither am I a fan of vampire fiction but I was really surprised by liking this book. I dismissed it for the longest time-after all, the storyline with telepathic waitress, vampires walking among us and all the story is based in small town in Louisiana? Sounded ridiculous to me so I never gave it a chance until I saw few episodes of True Blood. I was intrigued and decided to give it a go. From the very beginning the story grips you hard and keeps on the edge of your seat. Personally, I liked that Sookie is fairly innocent and naive. It was a nice change from cynical hard bitten characters in lot of vampire novels. This story has many angles-there is love story between Sookie and vampire Bill, there is murder that she is trying to solve with her telepathic abilities, and there is plenty of interesting info about vampires and small town life. It sounds silly but somehow Charlaine Harris makes it work.I read this in literally one evening and now looking forward to reading other novels in these series.
5	1321920000	Dead Until Dark is the first in Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series, later made into the television show True Blood featuring Sookie Stackhouse as the main character; a waitress in small town Louisiana, ostracized slightly because of her ability to read minds.She has learned to fill her days working in the bar and spending time with her grandmother instead of lamenting over her less than full social calendar.  When the vampire Bill arrives in town (vampires are now somewhat accepted as society believes they are created through a virus), Sookie is pleasantly surprised to learn that she can't read his thoughts and her life starts becoming more interesting, as Bill also shows interest in her.  Just when Sookie thinks things are looking up for her, people start turning up dead and she is in the middle of a mystery which strains the uneasy relationship between vampires and humans in Bon Temps.I loved the mystery aspect to this novel, which differentiates it from the many other vampire novels out there right now.  I had trouble putting the book down until I could find out who or what was killing the people of Bon Temps.  I also really liked Sookie herself, who was a well rounded and believable character.  I would have liked a bit more of a Southern feel (some was there, but it could have been taken further), but overall a fantastic read with unexpected humour as well.  Can't wait to move on with the rest of the series.
5	1321488000	great book cant wait to read the next!!! Took ages for the book to arrive but when it finally did i was able to get stuck straight into it
1	1321228800	Sorry to all the Charlaine Harris fans out there, but this book is horrible.  I read the book after True Blood started airing so that I could get some good background before delving into the series, but this book has turned me off of both.  The main character, Sookie, is silly and vapid.  She does not react in a believable way to anything, and I found it extremely hard to believe that every guy she meets is in love with her at first sight.  Bill, her main love interest, is bland and uninteresting, and the love scenes between the two that litter the book seemed redundant and cheap.  I certainly wasn't expecting a bad romance novel when I picked this up.  But the worst part is the horrendous writing with zero character development, unless you count describing hair styles and changes of clothes.  I highly doubt this book would have been published if vampires weren't the current rage, and I get the distinct feeling that Ms. Harris wishes she were Sookie.
5	1321228800	*WARNING* You will get hooked! I don't particularly care for fantasy books, but I adore these books! The books are kinda like a dirty Twilight. Yes, I read Twilight to find out what all the hype was about.. these books are MUCH BETTER. It's hard stop reading them. I am currently on the 6th book of the series and I have not been bored once.
5	1320537600	i've been a huge fan of the true blood series on hbo.  i've enjoyed the characters and story lines.  i knew ms. harris wrote the books and now there are many titles available, so i thought i would check a couple out.  i really enjoyed reading this book.  the television show follows the story quite well.  thankfully there's enough difference in the book to keep the story interesting.  whether you read the book first or watch the show, it really doesn't matter.  both are well-done.  i do highly recommend reading the adventures of sooki stackhouse though.  it is a fun and entertaining read!
5	1319932800	Ms. Harris has created a literary fun-filled romp.  It is just what it should be a pleasurable, action-packed, easy read allowing the reader to enter a time and place unlike her/his own. For a few hours he/she can laugh, thrill and be absorbed into Bon Temps and its environs along with its inhabitants (human and un). There is no doubt that while writing she assumes the character of Sookie Stackhouse and let's her vivid imagination take her on adventures that have us figuratively sitting on the edge of our seats.  BRAVO!!!
3	1319328000	For the first time in my long life that I can remember, I can honestly say that the TV series is much better than the book.  The character development wasn't bad and the storyline was acceptable, but the reading level was somewhat simplistic and some of the plot courses were unlikely.I can understand how high school students would find this book series interesting and enjoyable.  I can only hope it leads them to read much better written and inspiring works of literature.I can't say that reading this book was a waste of time, but it seems the writers of the HBO series are more talented than the book author.
5	1319155200	I'll admit i wasn't too sure what to expect from this series , but i can say i can't wait to read more! (i already bought the next book lol) It's a great start from what will probably be an addicting series. Anyone who enjoys Vampire books will be thrilled by this.
3	1318723200	Bought this for my wife after she became addicted to True Blood the tv series, I enjoy the show as well (although not as much as my wife!), so I decided to read the book. It's not bad. You can tell Charlaine Harris's background is in mystery writing. She takes a stab at describing how vampires might integrate into society, but doesn't really follow through on all the potential implications (at least not in this book). I bought the sequel for my wife, when she finishes it might give it a try.
5	1318636800	I am a devoted Anne Rice fan and have read all of her Vampire and Mayfair Witches books.  A friend recently gave me this book to read and I fell in love with the main character Sookie.  This book is like mixing some down home charm and a little bit of Hee Haw into a vampire story!  It's a great read and I find myself snickering out loud at some of the thoughts that go through Sookie's head.  If you're looking for a "fun" story with vampires,  please read this book!
5	1318550400	The book I bought was in perfect condition for a used book.  It arrived fairly quickly and there was absolutely nothing wrong with it.  Overall great service.
4	1318377600	This first installment in the Sookie Stackhouse series is a winner. Vampires have entered mainstream society and most folks aren't sure what they think about it. And vampires aren't the only supernaturals out there either.  After reading the first one I'll definetely be reading more in this series!
5	1318204800	This is a new Vampire series I have become addicted to. There are SOO many vampire books out it is unreal trying to read them all or pick out which series to start next, however I decided on this series because I started watching True Blood and of course I had to read the books, and I'm NOT dissappointed. It is fun to read the book along with the show, because the books are excellent, and slightly different storyline then the HBO series....I highly recommend reading the books AND watching True Blood, neither will be a disappointment!
3	1318118400	Compr&eacute; este libro porque la serie de televisi&oacute;n True Blood me pareci&oacute; espectacular y no pod&iacute;a esperar a que las nuevas temporada estuvieran disponibles en blu ray; por lo que pens&eacute; adelantarme y leer los libros. Sin embargo, tengo que decir que me qued&eacute; con un sabor agridulce despu&eacute;s de terminarlo.En primer lugar, me parece que los personajes no son tan entretenidos ni complejos como los de la serie de televisi&oacute;n. Por ejemplo, Lafayette es un personaje carism&aacute;tico que pr&aacute;cticamente est&aacute; ausente en este libro. Bill, parece ser un chico de preparatoria que lo &uacute;nico que quiere es sexo con Sookie, y no el vampiro paria que busca recobrar algo de su humanidad como se muestra en la serie.Por otra parte, cuando vi la primera temporada de True Blood me pareci&oacute; que el transfondo de la historia era una denuncia al racismo y la intolerancia que a&uacute;n permea en muchas sociedades. Despu&eacute;s de todo, Bill es de alguna manera discriminado y temido por el hecho de ser diferente. El libro no retoma este tema. De hecho, despu&eacute;s de terminarlo a&uacute;n me queda duda cu&aacute;l es el tema principal del libro. No voy a enunciar los posibles temas con el fin de no arruinar la experiencia de lectura de aquellos que a&uacute;n no lo han le&iacute;do.Debo concluir admitiendo que aunque no llen&oacute; por completo mis expectativas, no es un libro basura como algunos argumentan. El libro es entretenido y sirve para disfrutarlo en tiempos libres durante los fines de semana. Le doy tres estrellas porque a pesar de no ser un libro con una trama de denuncia social, con personajes complejos, y con una l&iacute;nea clara y definida, s&iacute; es hasta cierto punto un libro divertido.
4	1317427200	I work in a small independent bookstore, and so naturally whatever is hot on TV is what we sell a lot of. It seems like half the customers that come in that read supernatural books ask me if this series is any good, and the other half tells me how amazing it is. So, after about two month of this, I finally gave in and picked up Dead Until Dark.The first scene grabbed me right away, and I kept coming back to it. It's smart, funny writing and you can't help but be intrigued by town of Bon Temps, the many colorful citizens, Sookie's spunky character, and her little issue of being a telepath. I have to admit, I'm not too crazy about Bill's character. Bill the vampire is Sookie's first love, first everything, and throughout the course of the mystery (someone is killing girls who socialize--and other things--with vampires, and it's clear that Sookie may be next, despite the main suspect being her brother), she begins to fall for him. However, I felt nothing but ambivalence towards him, and I kept hoping that Sookie would dump the vamp and get together with Sam, her hot boss who has always liked her and has some secrets of his own.Overall, the mystery was engaging, and a bit surprising at the end. I am not thrilled with the romantic turn of events, but I was intrigued enough to pick up the next book, Living Dead in Dallas, to see which direction this one will head in! I haven't seen the show, nor do I know anything about how it relates to the books, and I am content to see how long this series will interest me for now.
5	1316995200	Okay, I wouldn't exactly call this a mystery.  But it is a great book, as is the rest of the series.  Great for a light, fun read with plenty of action and romance and humor.
3	1316908800	I liked this more than I had expected to. The writing isn't exactly transcendent, but I was charmed by the POV of a fairly uneducated but smart, psychic, rural Louisiana waitress who falls in love with a vampire. It definitely kept me turning the pages. Didn't hurt that I love the TV series, but that's not essential to enjoying the book. (If only book #2 had been as engaging...)
3	1316736000	I wanted to like this book and looked forward to reading the series.  The writing style is just too folksy to make me want to continue reading.  This is definitely for adults only, so the juvenile syntax just doesn't make sense. The story idea is interesting, but it needed to be edited much, much better.
5	1316563200	I just now finished reading this book, and it was a great read. I'm a big fan of the show, and I noticed quite a few differences. Jason is not addicted to V, Tara isn't in the book, and some of the main characters from the series aren't mentioned that much, but I still enjoyed it. Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress in the small town of Bon Temps, Louisana. She soon starts a relationship with a vampire named Bill Compton. A series of murders begins in town, and the police suspect that vampires are behind it. Who is killing the women in town? I highly recommend DEAD UNTIL DARK!!!
2	1316390400	**Warning, Spoilers**I recieved the box set as a gift. And that is the only reason that I kept reading this series.I don't know if it is just Charlaine Harris' writing style (which is extremely amateur) or the way Sookie is supposed to be, but nothing she does is ever explained. I have to read eight paragraphs about when she bathes; how she bathes; who is in the room when she bathes (does she ever bathe alone?); when she shaves her legs; and what kind of hideous, 1990's junior high cheerleader outfit she puts on (down to what color her freakin' hair tie is. Someone needs to send Charlaine Harris a Cosmo or Vogue - stat!); but when she reacts to something that someone has done or said, there is no internal monologue to explain her reaction.Her relationship with Bill is tiring and boring. Bill has no personality what-so-ever and Sookie is just constantly bitching at him. CONSTANTLY! But, that's really all she ever does - bitch! The only time she's not bitching at or about someone is when she and Bill are having weird mud people sex in a graveyard or screwing in her dead grandmother's bed. SERIOUSLY? And then every time she gets pissed off at Bill, she says that she rarely gets mad. Um, no, Sweetheart; You fly off the handle and jump on the crazy train any time anyone speaks to you.But what really bothers me is that the whole first book is her realizing that Bill really is a vampire (OMG! NO! REALLY?) even though she knew this when she met him - so she leaves him for a couple days - then thinks he is screwing someone else when he isn't - then she runs back to him - then she realizes that he's a vampire again - repeat process 5x and there, you've read the book.So, yeah, Sookie is also not very bright. Oh, she couldn't concentrate in school because of her "disability" - so she claims to be self-taught. Well, she isn't. Unless you count her "word of the day" calendar as an education. Nothing she says or does makes any sense and she doesn't care because she can just stomp her feet and yell and people cower.No woman in the books is as pretty or as wonderful as Sookie. Really. She's pretty and blond and has a huge rack. Ok, that's fine, but do we have to hear about it every two chapters? Yes, apparently we do. Every other woman in the book has bad skin, is "plump," has frizzy hair, wearing bad makeup, or is a "fang-banger" or just a slut in general. And Sookie (or Charlaine Harris) will not rest until she lets you know all their faults before they even open their mouths to speak - which always pisses Sookie off even more. And it's not just the women either. There are hardly any likable characters in this series. It's like Charlaine Harris knew she wrote a moronic, whiny, selfish, shallow character and couldn't have anyone in the books who was more likable than her. Every person in these books is a morally deficient character!And because the books are in first person, I am stuck in Sookie's crazy, whiny, hateful, judgmental, juvenile mind the whole time! I am tired of books where the main female is the bestest, most wonderful, beautiful woman in the entire world and every other woman in the novel is the equivalent of pond scum - jealous pond scum. Where has the female camaraderie gone?And the writing in general is just... horrid. It is all over the place and sometimes I had to read a paragraph twice to understand what insane reaction Sookie is having now. But try as I may, there will be no way to understand it, because Charlaine Harris apparently does not believe in internal monologues unless they have to do with banana clips or denim jumpers or how many men want to sleep with Sookie. (Spoiler: ALL of them do.)Now, I didn't go in to these expecting Anne Rice, Leo Tolstoy, or Margaret Mitchell quality. But, hell, I didn't even get Stephanie Meyer quality. I can't even believe these made it past an editor with the insane amount of absolute filler that eats up every page. If you took out Sookie grooming herself (or Bill grooming her - weird...) and her constant complaining then you'd probably be left with 30 or so pages of actual story.The only reason I'm giving this book two stars and not one is because the series does get slightly better - and only because of the vampire political/mystery plot lines. Possibly worth checking out from a library or borrowing from a friend if you like True Blood or vampires. But, honestly, True Blood is much better.
5	1316044800	I loved this book and the entire series.  Do not expect this book to be like the movies HBO is putting out.  I personally feel these are a good read.  I also like the fact that they are entertaining--not boring.
4	1315958400	This is the first Charlaine Harris book I've read, and I've got to say I am impressed. After seeing the promos for the True Blood series, I expected a very gory, horror-filled fest, but the prose in this book flows really smoothly, and I really like the Sookie character from the beginning because she's just like so many of us - insecure and very dismissive of her own likeability.The book opens a world that seems in the beginning to be almost like ours, with one difference - vampires are officially recognized and given the right to exist alongside humans. Towards the end of the book, of course, more surreal elements are introduced, like shape-shifters and the social hierarchy among the vampires. Overall I found this book really funny and enjoyed reading it, and wonder if the later books in the series will be just as interesting.
2	1315526400	I am a huge fan of the HBO series (True Blood)that was inspired by this series of books. I was expecting, well, so much more. I'm not a fan of books written in first person perspective anyway as characters other than the primary seem so one dimensional to me. Found the first book so disappointing that I'm sure I won't read another one.
5	1315440000	I know what you're thinking, the True Blood books, like vampire porn... gross.  Or at least those were my thoughts about the show when it first came on.  But after a few people recommended the books to me saying that they weren't just full of dirty vampire sex, I decided to give them a whirl.  What I liked about Dead Until Dark was  that the main character, Sookie wasn't a thirty something like you find with most adult books nor a teenager like you find with the young adults, and because I myself am at that in between age I found her more relatable. Sookie Stackhouse is a normal young woman; normal pretty looks, normal size and height, normal job, normal friends, and a normal family.  She lives in a fairly standard small country town.  Everything about her seems ordinary except for the fact that she can hear living people's thoughts and seems to have a knack for attracting the extremely sexy supernatural, which is what lead her to be with vampire Bill Compton, the new vampire in town.  Dead Until Dark is a sexy fantasy thriller filled with new love, mystery, murder.
5	1313798400	I started reading the books after watching the show and I must admit that I do like the show better, but the books are real page turners!
5	1313712000	Bought this book to get the free shipping on my other purchases. Thought it looked interesting. Enjoyed it so much, read the next ten books within two weeks.
5	1313452800	So, I admit, I was a little reluctant to pick up another book about vampires. But I am very glad I did! Totally sucked in within the first few pages, good plot, interesting characters. Rest assured, not a PG-13 tweeny book...very enjoyable read. Have read the next 2 books in the series as well and they are equally as good as the first.
2	1313452800	I watch True Blood and I wanted to compare the show to the books, expecting the books to be way better. I was wrong. I have read the first 4 books of the Sookie Stackhouse novels and I can say it doesn't get better. Sookie is a cry baby who makes out with every guy she meets, and if she isn't making out with them, she is getting physically assaulted. Her and Bella Swan would be great friends. All of the characters are one dimensional and the storylines aren't really thrilling at all. I feel that the show took the concept from the books and really improved upon it. These books are not fleshed out and make Charlaine Harris look like an amateur.
5	1313366400	A great book! A real page turner that is hard to put down.  The HBO TV show changes many things about the places, towns, background of people, and emotions of characters.  Good to see what the idea behind the hype was based on in book format.
5	1313193600	I love vampire stories. I am hooked on sookie. I want to vist bon temp. I would like to stop by and see Sam at Merlotts.Another good Vampire book is one i read this week called "Mississippi Vampires" by Vicky Renee Johnson.Mississippi VampiresThis book is funny.
1	1313020800	Like other reviewers I had high hopes and really wanted to enjoy this series. However it is so poorly written that was impossible.  The characters are underdeveloped to the extreme, we never know what's going on in their heads which made me so confused as to what was going on the majority of the time. It is essentially a poorly written smut novel so if that is your thing then have fun but otherwise don't waste your time.
5	1312502400	I must be one of the last people on the planet to read Dead After Dark. I also haven't had a chance (yet) to watch the True Blood series although because it's been all over the media I had a pretty good visual reference for the characters here without actually having to compare the two. I was able to just go along for the ride. And what a ride, I can definitely see now what all the fuss has been about.Honestly I had a hard time putting this down. Harris has created the perfect mixture of paranormal romance, mystery and action. With intriguing, humorous characters and situations and an absorbing, fast moving plot. Her take on Vampiric society is fresh and fascinating and I appreciated how we were continually reminded that despite "coming out" vampires are still very much predators.I also found Sookie to be incredibly relatable despite her "disability" and supernatural circumstances. Harris just has a way of making her feel all girl next door so that we discover everything right along with her. I also loved Harris's portrait of small town America and in this case it's unique bar patrons whom I felt like I knew. This could be in part because I'm from a small town and I also cocktailed for years so the characters seemed familiar to me. Whatever the case I'm glad I finally got around to reading this series.Sookie lives in the real world of small town Louisiana. She is a pretty cocktail waitress, lives with her grandmother and because of her telepathic "disability" keeps to herself. The people in Bon Temps tend to think that Sookie's a little crazy because she knows things she shouldn't and acts strange while her mental "guard" is up.Everything changes the day Bill walks into her bar and orders a bottle of synthetic blood. Bill is a vampire and ever since they entered mainstream society she's wanted to meet one. To make things even more interesting Sookie can't hear a word he's thinking, Bill might just be her perfect match, except of course for the fact that he's dead. Unfortunately soon after Bill arrives people start turning up dead, in particular waitresses. After an attack at her grandmother's house Sookie fears she might be next. Then there's Bill's creepy group of friends, the recent Elvis sightings, her brothers illicit behaviour and all of a sudden her boss isn`t quite who he appears to be either.So like I said I really enjoyed this, the love scenes are steamy and dirty (think outdoors, mud, and covered in blood dirty) and Bill well he is just delicious in a dangerous bad boy wanting to brush your hair kinda way. The romance aspect here was very good. I also really liked Sam's character and appreciated how his true self wasn't revealed right away. Bubba was another awesome little addition and the many townsfolk and their idiosyncrasies were fantastic. There are some surprising moments here and I never really knew where things were going to go next. Although I'll be honest I had a tough time keeping straight who was who. Getting many of (the many) secondary characters mixed up so that even at the end when the killer was revealed I had to back track to figure out who it was. Can't recommend this one enough.
4	1312243200	Dead Until Dark / 9781101146316I've seen theTrue BloodTV series based on this novel and really enjoyed it; I figured it was about time to read the book and see how well I like the source material. Final verdict: I really enjoyed this book, although there were a few additions to the TV series that I was sad to see weren't included here.As far as differences between the book and the series, I was really distraught to see that Tara doesn't appear in this book, since she is one of my favorite characters in the series. For that matter, a lot of the flavorful supporting characters have less of a presence here -- Lafayette, Terry, and Arlene are all much more vivid and front-and-center in the show than they are in the book. I understand why that is, it's really a difference in the medium, but it was also a disappointment. Also, since the book is firmly from Sookie's POV only, we don't get as many side-escapades in terms of Jason's adventures or Bill's first-hand experience of events.That aside, the book is very vivid and very well-written; it's impossible not to get snagged from the first page and carry on towards the end. I love the characters and how well-rounded they are, though if I had a complaint at all, it would be that Bill and Sookie's relationship seems very one-sided so far. She's shown giving up quite a bit and restructuring her life almost entirely, and outside of a quick on-again-off-again break where she is seen enjoying some sun and garlic, for the most part she seems okay with the fact that she's making a lot of sacrifices and he's not at all. It even gets to the point where Bill is feeding on her almost daily and she can't even take an iron supplement because he complains about the taste! Then, too, there's a disturbing scene where Sookie has to initiate and submit to extremely rough intercourse because the alternative is that Bill will lose his temper (for something that is not her fault) and harm or kill her.On the one hand, these relationship dynamics disturbed me as a reader, but on the other hand, Harris seems to be walking a fine line -- the implication seems to be that Sookie is submitting to all this because of her inexperience and that later books will show her standing up for herself; if that's the case, I'll stick with the series because I do love the TV series and the vivid world-building. Although I would prefer NOT to see Vampire Elvis again because I rather think cameos like that in supernatural literary worlds are fairly silly.Looking back over my review, I feel like I've said a lot of negative things, but I really do think that overall this is a solid, 4-star book. The world is fascinating and well-realized; Harris has put a lot of thought into how daily little things like the economy would be affected by vampires living among us -- even the little bar in Bon Temps is ordering blood-substitute to drink, and coffin-themed hotels are opening all over the country. The mystery story that underlies the book (and first season of the series) is well done and heart pounding, even if (like I did) you already know whodunit. The culture of the setting is fun and very visceral, and it feels like you're really in a very specific place instead of just Anywhere, USA like so many books.If you've liked the True Blood TV series thus far, I definitely recommend checking out "Dead Until Dark". Much of what you love from the series is here, and there's obviously a lot of room for growth -- I'm looking forward to reading the next book in the series.~ Ana Mardoll
2	1312156800	After the reviews that people wrote about how great this novel was, naturally, I was compelled to read it. I read the Twilight series, so I'm all in for vampire novels. However, this was a disappointment. Like you probably will, I ignored all of the "bad" reviews, wanting to give the book a chance. I was wrong. This book is terrible. You can predict everything that will happen pages, even chapters before it does. If there's ever a moment in the book where there's danger, or a "life-threatening" event (which in my opinion was extremely unengaging and uninteresting) everything is fine in the end. This book has some sex scenes but the author has a strange way of writing them which confuses you and gives little interest to the reader. I wouldn't waste my time if I were you.
5	1311811200	This series is the love story of sam and sookie, I think the author wanted to do a romance mystery supernatural story, in the south.  Sookie Stackhouse she is young 20 something is a waitress in Merlotte's in the south, who works for her chief Sam Merlotte's (who is not human , is a shapeshifter (can shift in any animal he wants as long as he see it). And then comes the vampires who take advantage of her , but she's fierce she fights back. It's a great series, in this book, Sookie meets vampire Bill and is love at first sight , since she is a Telepath (which means she can read minds), and she is considered a freak in their town , but no one really say or talk about. Sookie feels cannot hear his thoughts, and feels total silence , so she ends up in love with him.  Then in town there's a serial killer and likes to kills women who were litellary vampire groupies.  This is the basic premise of the Sookie Stackhouse novels , but a lot happens 13 books, a short story collection books, 1 novella (in the sookie Stackhouse companion book)and short stories and the collection books Death's excellent vacation and home improvement: Undead Edition.
1	1310860800	This was one of the cheesiest books I have ever read. The only thing any of the characters ever think about is sex. And really Elvis is a Vampire come on how dumb can you get! I will not be subjecting myself to anymore mindless Southern Vampire books.
1	1310256000	I dont have much time to read so a book really has to suck me in or i get bored. I tried this series because it had lots of great reviews. It was one of those boring romance books that didnt have much of a suspense plot to keep me entertained.
2	1309305600	I absolutely can not, for the life of me, figure out why all the buzz on this book.  I haven't watched the HBO series True Blood, but I'm figuring that's where it's rooted.  From other reviews I've read I get the feeling that the TV show is superior to the actual books it's based on.The story is very slow moving, like molasses actually.  The last twenty pages are the best in the whole book.  I kept feeling like a breakthrough was just on the horizon...waiting and waiting.  I read the book in a single sitting, it was short and I just needed it to end or get good already.  Lots of time spent on what kind of outfit Sookie will wear.  Lots of time spent at the bar wondering what her boss is thinking.  Lots of time spent trying to not use her `disability' of listening to other people's thoughts.  Seriously, boring stuff here.I didn't feel any, even a small amount, of connection to Bill.  All I felt was the silence, she loved the silence, her inability to read his mind, so plop me in bed Bill.  He shared nothing of himself, really, little quips here and there but would never elaborate with the small exception of his time in the War.  His extremely romantic pillow talk of "I would like to enter you again" EWWW, gag, retch.  The connection was extremely weak at best.I didn't like the writing style either.  I felt like the author was trying to write with small town nuances and totally missed the mark!  Poor grammar doesn't equal small town life.  Being from a small town, I wasn't necessarily offended, but felt as though it just wasn't authentic.  And in the midst of this small town lingo, and prejudices she throws in a flaming gay cook at the bar, with flashy clothes and makeup to boot, really?  The Elvis thing, Wow, stupid!  This just made me feel like everyone, including the vampires, from this town were dumb.2 Stars because: There was one twist I thought was clever although predictable.  I was ecstatic I borrowed this from the library and didn't buy it.  I won't read further and I won't recommend to my friends either.
5	1309132800	I am a huge fan of the series, True Blood but hadn't read the books. Which is an odd thing for me because usually I would have read the book or books first. So I was worried after watching the tv show would I like the books or vice versa would I hate the show afterwards. I kept putting it off but I had several people one being my niece kept after me saying you really need to read them. So finally I broke down and started to read and let me say I could kick myself for not reading them sooner.Once I started to read Dead Until Dark, I found myself more than once thinking well that isn't like that in the show. But that being said I really really loved the start to this series. I felt I connected more to the characters more especially Sookie and my love for Eric has grown even deeper. I am also finding that I don't care for Bill as much as I did.I definitely could see the differences between the show and the books, especially when it came down to the sex scenes where as in the show its all out there for everyone to see, the books had a subtle quality which I enjoyed just as much.I have to say if you love the show and haven't read the books like I had please do they are incredible.
2	1308873600	Wanted to love this book. Like many others, I watched True Blood and then checked out Harris' work. I thoroughly enjoy the show because of the interesting characters and multiple plot lines. Usually it is the book that flushes out the characters and the television adaptation that simplifies and excises key elements--- in this case it was the other way around. Harris' first book (I couldn't read much more than 2 chapters into the second), focuses on Sookie but omits many details concerning the other characters. There were a few details that I did appreciate, which hadn't made it to the tv show (i.e. explanation concerning Sookie's educational/academic challenges), but for the most part, it seems the True Blood writers were the ones breathing life into Sookie and her world. The wit, intrigue, and energy are absent from the (at least first) book. Even trying to review the book on its own, without comparing it to the show, I would still find the book lacking. The heroine comes across as a bit of a simpleton and oddly, though she gets to meet a vampire and do ostensibly exciting things, the story moves along pretty slowly... sorry fans, can't join you on this one.[Also didn't care much for Harris' descriptions, most notably, her lengthy but unsatisfactory sartorial selections for Sookie-- (lace-up jeans and a striped shirt...not so sexy for the sassy heroine Sookie's supposed to be).]
5	1308700800	This series is probably on of the best Vampire/Paranormal series Ive ever read.  I HIGLY recommend it.  At first i was so in love with Bills character...twords the end you start falling in love with Eric's character.  Its really got everything that could possibly make a series good.  It has love, sex, and of course plenty of danger and interesting little details.  I absolutely LOVE this series.  Buy all the books you wont regret it one bit. Love it, love it, love it!
5	1308614400	..obviously never read the Twilight series.  This book may not be written that well, but it's a young adult series, and certainly written with more skill than Twilight.  Judging by the grammar and spelling of the reviewers, they wouldn't be educated enough to read something more difficult anyway.  In fact, the book was written better than it should have been considering an uneducated telepath is narrating.I really loved the beginning of this book.  It just jumped right in - Sookie meets Bill, the reader finds out she's a telepath, trouble ensues - No arduous descriptions, drawn out details about every little emotion or look, just the basics.  It is easy to envision what the characters look like and their personality types.  I hate when authors describe every painstaking detail of a character's outfit, appearance, etc.  There is no unnecessary filler for each situation; Mrs. Harris gets right to the point.  She merely mentions that Sookie can read minds in passing, as if it is no big deal.  This book is very eventful.  I can't think of any dull moments to be honest.  Even Sookie's moments of contemplation can be very interesting.There are a few discrepancies, but nothing major.  For example, Jason and Rene are the same age (late 20s I think) but Rene is graying, has been married and divorced to Arlene, and she's had two other husbands and children since... many details make him sound much older than his given age.  She thinks everyone treats her like a crazy person, but for the most part, everyone seems very polite to her at the least.  Little things like that sound weird, but maybe because I have read most of these three times now.Each book coincides with that season of the show, but there are enough differences to make both enjoyable without one spoiling the other.  I preferred the show in some aspects, but I think the book series is a little better.  I think the one thing I liked the least about the books is that they are written from Sookie's perspective, so the other characters aren't very involved.  I was also disappointed that Tara was not in this book, as she was one of my favorite characters in the beginning of True Blood,  Her lack of presence in the book makes Sookie seem so isolated and friendless.  Lafayette is hardly mentioned in the book, but I love how the HBO writers changed his character.
5	1308355200	If you want a deep plot, this is not for you. I read this before the TV series ever came out and really enjoyed it. The writing is nothing in depth and the characters are fun and quirky throughout the entire series.
5	1307923200	Dead Unitl Dark, Book 1, of the Sookie Stackhouse novels is an easy and smooth entry into the world of Sookieverse. I didn't start reading the novels until I had starting watching TrueBlood on HBO but the books are just as good as the series if not better. There are plot twists and different characters are than in the show, making the books original and worth reading.
4	1307577600	I picked up this book after falling in love with 'True Blood' on HBO. 'Dead until Dark' follows the plot of season one of True Blood pretty closely (there are extra story lines in the series that don't exist in the book and some characters (Tara, Lafeyette) play a bigger role in the show.) Also, Jessica doesn't exist in this book (which is sad because I like her in the show).The differences didn't really bother me. I did like that Bill 'less nice' in the books. He sometimes seems too good to be true in the show, and it's nice to see Bill's dark side in the book. he seems more like a vampire, if that makes any sense. You also learn a little more about Eric in the book than the show.It did take me awhile to get used to Sookie's 'voice' (this book is told in first-person from Sookie's perspective) and I think there was sometimes too much detail (I sometimes found myself thinking 'duh' when things were described). I'm hopeful that as the series continues some of these flaws are ironed out, but overall they didn't distract from the joy of the book.If you like True Blood, you'll probably like this book. I'm hopeful that the rest of the series is as good as the first book. If you like supernatural, mystery (there's a serial killer on the loose, romance (and a little smut) and an interesting narrator, you'll probably enjoy this book.
3	1307491200	The book itself is well written and fast going, a really easy read.  I was drawn to it because of the hype and I like the story but I don't like Sookie.  Granted this is the first in the series and if I continue reading I may change my mind about the heroine but I just felt like she was a little too damsel in distress for me.
5	1306713600	My friend loaned this book to me and my first reaction was disappointment. I said to myself; "Oh, that's just grand. Another cookie cutter vampire book. Just what I always wanted - Not!"I assumed the cookie cutter scenario mainly because of the stereotypical cover art:Pale Skin, (ckeck)Red Lips, (check)Visible Fang (check)Drooling Blood (check)Tongue Licking at the Blood (double check).I was sure that I would NEVER read this thing. I decided that I would wait a decent amount of time to return it, along with the proper thanks and appreciation. Then pray that God would forgive me the white lie.I was SO wrong. I wish I could say it was a first for me but I can't.That's when it happened.I was so bored one day I finally dug the book out and began to read. I was well and truly hooked by the time I read half of page 14.The heroine's name is Sookie Stackhouse. She is a young waitress at a bar in her hometown. She is:Uneducated, but not stupid.Unworldly but not gullible.Beautiful but no boyfriend.You see, she has this 'disability' she is telepathic - able to read minds as easily as a fish can swim. Knowing what any of your prospective boyfriends are thinking, nearly all the time, can be a real turn-off. It is for her. Then Bill (the vampire) walks into her life by sitting down at her table in the bar.She likes him instantly. He is the first person she has ever met that she can't 'hear'. She loves not knowing his thoughts and she is soon in love with him, and he with her.Sounds like a match made in Heaven, right? Well, it would be if his vampire friends and her human friends would leave them alone. But of course, that isn't going to happen without a fight and a fight is exactly what Sookie and Bill give all of those who try to hurt them.I could say more, but I don't want to spoil it for those who have never seen the HBO version.I've fallen in love with this series so much that I have just purchased the 8-book boxed set. I can't wait to see what happens next. If these books live up to my expectations, I will likely purchase the next three.~Karen
5	1306368000	I heard about this series from a friend and decided to pick it up. Honestly I am not a big reader, I stick to my comic books and television for entertainment. However I have to say this book was surprisingly easy to read, and a hell of an action packed ride too. I love how Charlaine Harris writes in a way that really puts you into the main character's thought process. I also enjoyed that for the majority of the book there was action and purpose. I have to say once I picked this book up, I could not put it down. Great read if you love the supernatural, mystery, adventure and a little smut all mixed together.
4	1305849600	I am a Twilight fan, so I didn't think that this was going to be a book that I would like but I was surprised that the story line was intriguing and just all around a fun read.
2	1305504000	This book just didn't work for me. The writing was appalling, a style non-existent, and the main character Sookie was simply obnoxious. In such a small town, every guy, and I mean EVERY guy, thinks she's a catch, good-looking, sexy, adorable. A woman, no matter how much she looks like a supermodel, will not get every guy. What else bothered me was Sookie's focus on herself. Yes, she found herself incredibly sexy. Yes, she found her body utterly to die for. Yes, the writer kept reminding the reader how great Sookie is.This is one book I felt like tossing in the trash. Did so as soon as I read the last page. It really was that bad.
5	1304812800	Such an amazing start to an amazing series! Sookie is my most favorite heroine/slueth since Nancy Drew! These books are sexy, but not in a raunchy way. This book is the best!
4	1304294400	This is the first book in the series that inspired the TV show True Blood. I haven't seen the show, so this review will only focus on the book. The premise of the book intrigued me and the cover is also very effective. The blood red lips stand out against the model's pale skin and the flash of a fang and trickle of blood hint at the world the books will introduce you to.I immediately liked that Dead Until Dark is set in the small town of Bon Temps, Louisiana, rather than the more well-known city of New Orleans which has been made famous by Anne Rice and her vampires. It allows Harris to carve her own niche in the very popular (and rather crowded at times) vampire genre. In Harris's world vampires have recently gone public, but not everyone is excited about this new revelation. The town of Bon Temps allows Harris to explore people's reactions outside of a city setting where vampires could blend in more easily. Small-town close-mindedness plays a big part in Dead Until Dark and I enjoyed the different approach to the vampire novel that it allows.Sookie Stackhouse is an interesting heroine. In most vampire novels these days the heroine is usually a fast-talking, ass-kicking woman like Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake. So Sookie, a waitress at a local bar, makes for a refreshing alternative. Sookie has the ability to read minds, something she has always considered a curse. Her ability has brought her nothing but trouble over the years and has earned her the moniker of `Crazy Sookie Stackhouse'. So on top of being a small-town girl, she is even more isolated because of her telepathy. This has left her quite nave about the world and people. It is this navet&eacute; that makes Sookie such a vulnerable character and I just wanted to protect her. When Sookie meets her first vampire, Bill Crompton, she is thrilled to discover that she can't `hear' anything he's thinking. For Sookie is is pure bliss. I enjoyed the development of Sookie's character through the course of the book. As she begins to build some inner strength she also begins to view her telepathy as more of a gift than a curse.I have to admit that I don't particularly like Sookie's vampire boyfriend Bill Crompton. I don't trust him at all and I think he is using her for something. He's a very closed character and I never got any real feel for him apart from my suspicions. I much preferred Eric, a powerful local vampire Sookie encounters during the story.There is a murder mystery at the heart of Dead Until Dark, but it didn't have any real direct impact on the story. I think that Harris could have made it more intriguing and less of a background event.Dead Until Dark marks the start of a series that I would like to follow a bit further to see what happens. It is the characters that make the book work and I look forward to seeing how they develop in the following books.
5	1304208000	I was totally addicted to HBO's series "True Blood". I didn't think it could get any better until I picked up this book and started to read it. I had never been interested in reading as a hobby until a friend of mine suggested Dead Until Dark because I loved the t.v. series so well. She told me to read the first chapter and if I didn't like it not to read anymore. Well, I ended up reading more than half the book when I first opened it because it was so interesting I could not put it down. I only put it down because I could no longer keep my eyes open after working a 12 hour night shift and having to go back out to work that same night. Charlaine Harris' books are so much more detailed and in depth than the show "True Blood". Now, don't get me wrong, I am a die hard True Blood fan but I get so much more out of the books. There are many story lines that do not take place on the show. I am always on the edge of my seat unable to close these books because I can't wait to read on and see what is going to happen. If you like HBO's True Blood then Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse Series are a must have. This series is my favorite by far. I have read all of the books in this series twice and I'm anxiously awaiting the arrival of the newest one "Dead Reckoning" which should arrive any day. I feel that this series is like Twilight for grown-ups. They are very descriptive and sexual in a way that is not distasteful. So good that they make you feel like you are watching the stories played out on screen and keep you wanting more.
5	1303862400	This book is awesome if you like mysteries and vampires. Don't start this book unless you are prepared to be sucked into the world of Sookie Stackhouse and her many crazy adventures.
4	1303862400	If you've learned everything you know about Sookie Stackhouse from watching True Blood, you are missing out in a big way. Yeah, yeah, there is definitely something to be said about the joys of watching Alexander Skarsgard brood and wear muscle shirts. But the books put the tv series to shame. The biggest difference is that these books are all first-person Sookie. Everything is about her and the world from her perspective. (Most of the more ridiculous subplots of the series don't even exist in the books.)Sookie is a waitress in small town in northern Louisiana. She can read minds and it's a curse that has plagued her for her entire life. It has isolated her and prevented her from ever developing real relationships... until she meets Bill. He is a vampire; his kind has just "come out" to the world. And when she is with him, there is no noise... just peace and silence. Their relationship kicks off when she saves his life from a wayward couple, planning to drain him and sell his blood as a drug. Not long after she rescues him, he ends up doing the same for her, when the couple returns to retaliate.The relationship between Bill and Sookie develops quickly. (There are definitely some sexy scenes between the two that can get your blood racing, but nothing likely to make you blush if you're reading in public.) But there is much more to the story than their relationship. Women are being murdered in their small town of Bon Temps. The victims all seem to have ties to vampires -and eventually, the murders hit very close to home for our heroine. There is action and suspense -and a great element of surprise when the killer is finally revealed.Sookie is a likeable lead... a sweet country girl who is often underestimated. We see Bill through her eyes as this dashing, sexy, larger-than-life guy, who straddles the line between man and monster. There is a great supporting cast, lead by her boss Sam, her slutty brother Jason (who, despite his portrayal on tv, is not a complete idiot,) and the enigmatic Viking vampire Eric. This first installment really only gives us a peek into the supernatural world that will eventually be revealed as the series progresses. But it's a great start. It's fun and fantastic series for any fan of the Urban Fantasy genre. 4 1/2 stars.
5	1303257600	In a frequent recreational reader life, she frequently finishes an enjoyable series of novels only to have to a) wait until the author writes another (c'mon, Sue Grafton!) or, since the author has departed our midst (Dorothy Sayers, Tony Hillerman) sigh and wish for what can never be.  How nice to stumble across a series that is fun and exciting to read.  Sookie Stackhouse novels fill the bill admirably.
3	1302998400	It wasn't the worst thing I ever read, but certainly not the best either. I ended up picking up most of the series for several reasons. One of the reasons was because I had fallen in love with the HBO series, True Blood. The other main reason was because I was trying to find a new series to replace the crap that is now Anita Blake, and I had heard excellent things about the Sookie Stackhouse series.Now, before I started the books, I was aware that they would be quite different from the show, especially the sexual content. I was fine with, and quite happy, with this fact, because I was sick of all the vampire romances out there with a severe lack of plot. I have no problem with romance in my books as long as there more to the plot than the romance and/or sex.I was fairly entranced by the first couple chapters, but the book quickly started to lose my attention after a while. I thought it could have been possible I wasn't as interested since I knew how it would end so the plot wasn't able to capture me. However, neither did any other aspects of the book. I found the writing style bland and boring, for the most part, and I got no sense of the characters from the books.One of the things I did like was the idea of the series and the main character. I recall reading in an interview that Charlaine Harris thought there ought to be a reason for a girl to want to date a vampire, and she did come up with an excellent reason: peace of mind.So all in all, I would suggest borrowing this book rather than buying it, but I wouldn't say it's a complete waste of time either.
5	1302739200	these are awesome books! it may take a couple to really get into it but once u do your hooked!
5	1302307200	Love it!!I love reading the books before the TV series hit.  There is so much more juice in the books!!
4	1301961600	Lighter fare than the typical shifter/vamp novel and springy in its telling. Sookie has been through a few things in her life and doesn't get dissuaded easily by challenges. She is loyal and practically- minded but girlie enough to interest female readers. Love the HBO series too, which captures the flavor of the book so well. If you like this, read her Grave series...that's cool too. It's worth reading for Erik alone, he's so funny. The mystery angle is a must and Harris always has one...
5	1301875200	This book is just good fun.  It's not the great American novel.  It's not the literary equivalent of Interview with the Vampire (but I do believe it's more fun).Sometimes I think people just don't get it- they don't understand that some novels are just there to be fun.  Everything doesn't need to be serious.  You can read a novel that's below your reading level, and enjoy it!  This is campy, quirky, ridiculous fun.  Nothing more, nothing less.
3	1301702400	This is a light read that doesn't require a lot of commmitment from the reader. Sookie is a fun character, though, for me, neither she nor the other characters were developed enough to give me a strong connection. The plot was interesting but parts of it left me wanting more detail. I could have put the book down halfway through and not been bothered if it disappeared and I couldn't finish.
3	1301529600	This is going to be a Mini Review, simply because with series novels like this I don't feel like there's a whole lot to say.Unfortunately, I wasn't as entranced by this novel as I thought I'd be. The romance seemed to be lacking some sort of passion. I was actually more interested in seeing Sookie get with the bad guys than the good guy (which I actually hope happens in future novels.)This felt like exactly what it was: an introduction. Now the question is, was it enough to get me to read more? Or should I just watch the TV show and let that satisfy my curiosity?
5	1301529600	Sookie Stackhouse is a cocktail waitress in the small LA town of Bon Temps. She lives in a time when vampires live out in the open and other supernatural beings keep coming out of the woodwork. Most of you who have seen True Blood already know this. I had actually missed the first season of the show and came in on the second so I wanted to read the first book, Dead Until Dark, which was the basis for the entire first season.Sookie's voice in Dead Until Dark is strong and well-developed. It's in first person and I could hear her voice (or Anna Paquin's voice) flow in my head without any awkward sentences. In that sense the dialogue is quite realistic. Reading the book made me appreciate the casting job done on the show True Blood. My favorite was Sam Merlotte, who was very likable in the book and the show for me.The main story follows Sookie beginning to date a local vampire, with murders piling up around town and all signs pointing to Sookie being next. There's an interesting dynamic in the storytelling where you almost have a 1st-person omniscient because Sookie can read minds. Therefore, the reader gets Sookie's point of view and she tells us what certain people are thinking. However, she can't read everyone's mind, which adds to the mystery.I found Dead Until Dark quite charming with great characters and interesting storytelling. If you've only seen the TV show you're missing out. Pick up Dead Until Dark, it's just as good or even better than the show. Charlaine Harris did a really fine job.Bookophile Rating: 91%
3	1301270400	This isn't the most well written book in the world, and some parts of it are...well, just plain bad(the part at the end where Bill tells her what he did in New Orleans...Really?!), but what do you want? This is good, campy escapist fun that can be read and digested in one sitting.My love for True Blood might make me like this a little more, who knows. But I'm reading the whole series over spring break this week, and I've had a lovely time thus far.
2	1300060800	I consider myself to be a connoisseur of the "vampire canon"; I've been reading and doing research about vampires (in literature, folklore, mythology, etc.) for many, many years. Thus, you can imagine my excitement to learn that True Blood, a show I've enjoyed tremendously since its inception, is based on Charlaine Harris's series. Given the show's engagement with political issues and anchorage in our reality (despite its supernatural characters and "occurrences"), I thought that the books would be better and more complex than the TV show (as is the case with most books versus film adaptations). Even though I managed to finish this book fairly quickly, I couldn't help feeling a little cheated at the end. Harris's writing style lacks the sophistication that her themes demand; her characters are so unilateral and the dialogues so insipid and ridiculous that I found myself constantly rolling eyes or laughing out loud. I commend Harris for having created such a fascinating world; however, this book won't ever be placed among the "serious" works of the Gothic (literary) tradition. Sadly, it is only slightly better than Twilight (which, in my opinion, is a literary abomination).
5	1299888000	Everyone knows--or should know--her by now. She is the True Blood's series heroine! This review will be about vamps, telepaths, romance, and action! If you don't already know about Bon Temps, or if you want to read something new about this little town of Louisiana . . . read this review."Sookie Stackhouse is a small-time cocktail waitress in small-town Louisiana. She's quiet, keeps to herself, and doesn't get out much. Not because she's not pretty. She is. It's just that, well, Sookie has this sort of "disability". She can read minds. And that doesn't make her too dateable. And then along comes Bill. He's tall, dark, handsome--and Sookie can't hear a word he's thinking. He's exactly the type of guy she's been waiting for all her life. . . .But Bill has a disability of his own: He's a vampire with a bad reputation. He hangs with a seriously creepy crowd, all suspected of--big surprise--murder. And when one of Sookie's coworkers is killed, she fears she's next. . . . "By now, most people already know Sookie's world, but I wanted to start at the beginning of the series.Sookie's a telepath and she knows every thought the inhabitants of Bon Temps would want to keep to themselves: sex, affairs, sex, violence, sex, any of the capital sins, sex again. . . We can understand easily why she isn't romantically involved with anybody. Who would want to know what his/her date is thinking about the end of the night?People in Bon Temps, as anybody in a small town in a hot area of the world where girls wear minimal clothing, are obsessed with sex.Sookie lives with her grandmother since the death of her parents. Her brother lives on his own in the house in which they grew up. After the existence of vampires became public--thanks to Japanese scientists who created synthetic blood--all she wanted was to meet one of them.And that's when Bill appears in her life. But he's not alone. . . there's also a murderer whose victims are pro-vamps women--women who sleep with vamps. She'll have to find the murderer after the death of one of her coworker and someone she didn't want to lose, thankfully, she can minds . . . if the killer is human, of course.This book is magic. I fell in love with Bon Temps, Sookie, Bill, Fangtasia, and all this incredible universe after a few pages. And now I'm drooling when the release of the next book approach.All my reviews are available on the French website Mythologica!
5	1299628800	I am always on the lookout for a great read and I found it in this series.  Charlaine Harris has a way of pulling you into a fast-paced story that makes you think about her story long after you are finished reading it. I liked it so much I bought the entire series and read it in a week.  I can't wait for the next book.  The heroine, Sookie Stackhouse, is a great mix of spunk, femininity, and naivet&eacute;.  Her world is filled with vampires, fairies, and were-animals.  It is a fascinating tale of what it might be like if these creatures actually walked amongst us and how Sookie conquers them all.  I never had a dull moment.  If you are looking for a vacation in a book you have found it with these.
1	1299456000	I absolutely love vampire stories.  I wanted to like this series so badly, but I just couldn't. Ms. Harris' writing style is just not my cup of tea. I tried the first book several years ago and didn't like it then. Well, I started watching the True Blood series on HBO and absolutely love it, so I thought that perhaps my tastes had changed and maybe I would like the books this time around. Well, no such luck. The writing was just as I remembered.  Someone then suggested I skip a couple books and read book 3. They said that is where it really starts to get good. Ugh. I couldn't get through book 3 either. I skimmed pages, skipped sections, then just flipped to the last couple pages to see how it ended. I truly don't understand all of the rave reviews. To me the Sookie in the book is just such an unlikeable ho' and Eric in the books is so ridiculous (maybe it is a bad dream, but I think I read a section of the book where he was wearing pink hot pants.) As a matter of fact, that is one of the things I just cound NOT get over, the weird clothing descriptions. Some of the clothing choices that Harris describes these characters as wearing is just so silly I would try to pretend like I didn't read the description, but just coulnd't get past it. The writing is not what I would classify as southern. I am originally from Arkansas and IMO it is more hick than southern. It is really hard to warm up to and become emotionally invested in any of the characters. No emotional connection AT ALL.I like the premise, it is just the writing that doesn't suit me. It could have been so much better. I wish it had been done by say an Anne Rice or someone similar.That said, I didn't like Anita Blake either, so if you like her stuff I think there is a good chance you will probably enjoy this.  It just isn't my cup of tea.
2	1299283200	I really didn't see what the hype was about this book.  It was recomended to me by a friend, and so when I was at a used book store, I decided to buy it.  I really wish I hadn't and instead had bought another book worth reading.  I thought the storyline was boring and almost like she tried to fit too many events in just one book! I don't know how Harris has written eight more books in the series.  To make matters worse, I thought the characters were really underdeveloped, and I didn't feel like any of them even made an impression on me.  Bill was just...cold throughout the whole book, and Sookie was just, well, stupid!  I thought this whole book was just pointless, and too bad for me I bought the second one. It was just the typical "girl falls in love with a vampire" story, but with way too much sex.  I mean Sookie even refers to him as "my vampire" and "my vampire boyfriend". I honestly would not read this again.
5	1299196800	I'll just say that this book is great! I've already read all the Sookie Stackhouse books available, and they are all fantastic and this one is my favorite... Just loved it!
4	1298505600	This book was good, indulgent, fun reading. It was a quick and entertaining read with plenty of romance novel-type scenes and lots of supernatural plot twists. I would recommend this to anyone who either: a) likes romance novels dealing with the supernatural or b) is a "True Blood" fan! I am the latter, and so I was not surprised by how much I enjoyed the book that the HBO series is based upon. It was interesting to compare Season 1 of "True Blood" to Dead Until Dark. It seemed that Season 1 of "True Blood" was able to follow the storyline of this book pretty faithfully, although I did notice minor plot tweaks and character omissions made by the TV show writers. I liked that the book was told from Sookie's point of view, as it added some depth to her character that the TV show just doesn't get to explore. I devoured this book in just a few sittings, and I find myself 'hungering' for more now that I've finished it! I definitely want to read more of Charlaine Harris' delicious series!
5	1298332800	i guess i am a little backwards but i saw the show first and LOVED it! with the new season not starting for a couple months, i decided to read the books. I Am so glad i did. The first book was FANTASTIC! charlaine harris is an awesome and talented author who kept me hooked on this book from beginning to end. on to the next one now ;)
1	1298246400	...is that it has inspired me.  It has proven to me that anyone had become a published author.  You don't need to be an excellent writer, heck, you don't even need to be a competent writer.  All you need is a somewhat intriguing plot, add vampires and some sex, and you may just have a chance at the big time!Some random thoughts:I could not discern the time period of this novel.  Is this taking place in the 80's or in the future?  I had figured, since vampires had been mainstreamed and synthetic blood is on tap at the local pub, that this was a futuristic tale.  Then I become terribly confused when Sookie puts her hair up in a banana clip.  A banana clip, really?  Bill loses a lot of credibility and sex appeal when it is disclosed that his favorite music is Kenny G.  After learning that, how am I supposed to take his character seriously?  He's been around since the civil war and Kenny G is the best thing he's heard?  Well then, this man clearly has poor taste!Also, I agree with the reviewer who complained that she could not picture Bill.  This is absolutely true.  He is generic, blank.  I can't see him in my imagination.  He is faceless.Some folks describe the book as "raunchy", warning that it contains graphic sex scenes.  Well, for my money, the sex scenes were not graphic enough.  If this book had some hot sex scenes, it would actually be a redeeming quality.  Considering that sex is such a large part of the plot, if the scenes were well-written I would at least have something to look forward to every ten pages or so.  The carnal scenes in this book are about as stimulating as the love scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie in "Don't Look Now" (obscure reference, I know, but some of you will know what I'm talking about!).  The sex is awkward.  The scenes could have been erotic but the writer doesn't have the writing chops to make it happen.Her needless details often ruin the moment for me.  Sookie and Bill are about to share a moment of passion and Bill stops to "kick off his sandals".  Seriously?  Thanks Charlaine.  Men in sandals give me indigestion.  Why did you have to mention this?  First Kenny G, now sandals.  Oh yeah, don't forget the Grateful Dead t-shirt.  I'm surprised he doesn't play hackey sack out in the graveyard with his vampire friends.Just remember readers, if Charlaine can do it, so can any of us!  You've got a story in you somewhere.  Just write it down.  It won't take long.  Judging by this book, you can write a novel in a couple of weekends.  Then cross your fingers that some talented HBO writers will clean up your sloppy work and make it palatable while you make gobs of money.  Charlaine, thank you for giving me a dream!
1	1297900800	As many of you here, I began to read this series due to the television show. I'm a big believer that you should first always look to the original material first, in order to compare and contrast with the adaptation.  While the show is entertaining (in that "tongue-in-cheek kind of way) these books fail in many ways. Well, the first book does, anyway.The story itself is interesting, and that is where the One Star rating comes in, but it's executed poorly.  The writing is horrendous. My 16-year-old sister could do better. The plot drags with everyday mediocre and momentous activity Sookie goes through, and the building to the climax well... it's anti-climatic and in turn, the resolution at the end is bland. The characters are flat, and unlike the "cinematic" Sookie, the literary one falls flat and is a total bore. There is little to no development in the case of the remaining characters, and overall they're all rather unlikeable, including Sookie.Dead Until Dark is only 12 chapters long, but it took me months to finish it. I could have given up on it a long time ago, but I'm adamant to finish all books I start, even if they are dreadful (as was this one).Overall, and unlike the show, the book has very little excitement to its story. It's amazing all the buzz surrounding this series, when the material is not worthy of such. Charlaine Harris can thank HBO and the True Blood writers for giving this mediocre series a push, albeit unwarranted considering its dull writing.Unfortunately for me, I bought both the first and second book in the series, thinking I was sure to enjoy it, as I have the show. As is custom, the core source of the material, that being the book, is always better than the movie or TV show. However, such is not the case with this book.I don't think I'll continue this series, since there is a lot better storytelling waiting to be devoured on my bookshelves. I will do Mother Nature a favor though, by recycling not only the first but second book, so that the pain of her loss was not in vain.
5	1297296000	I must be one of the last people on the planet to read Dead After Dark. I also haven't had a chance (yet) to watch the True Blood series although because it's been all over the media I had a pretty good visual reference for the characters here without actually having to compare the two. I was able to just go along for the ride. And what a ride, I can definitely see now what all the fuss has been about.Honestly I had a hard time putting this down. Harris has created the perfect mixture of paranormal romance, mystery and action. With intriguing, humorous characters and situations and an absorbing, fast moving plot. Her take on Vampiric society is fresh and fascinating and I appreciated how we were continually reminded that despite "coming out" vampires are still very much predators.I also found Sookie to be incredibly relatable despite her "disability" and supernatural circumstances. Harris just has a way of making her feel all girl next door so that we discover everything right along with her. I also loved Harris's portrait of small town America and in this case it's unique bar patrons whom I felt like I knew. This could be in part because I'm from a small town and I also cocktailed for years so the characters seemed familiar to me. Whatever the case I'm glad I finally got around to reading this series.Sookie lives in the real world of small town Louisiana. She is a pretty cocktail waitress, lives with her grandmother and because of her telepathic "disability" keeps to herself. The people in Bon Temps tend to think that Sookie's a little crazy because she knows things she shouldn't and acts strange while her mental "guard" is up.Everything changes the day Bill walks into her bar and orders a bottle of synthetic blood. Bill is a vampire and ever since they entered mainstream society she's wanted to meet one. To make things even more interesting Sookie can't hear a word he's thinking, Bill might just be her perfect match, except of course for the fact that he's dead. Unfortunately soon after Bill arrives people start turning up dead, in particular waitresses. After an attack at her grandmother's house Sookie fears she might be next. Then there's Bill's creepy group of friends, the recent Elvis sightings, her brothers illicit behaviour and all of a sudden her boss isn`t quite who he appears to be either.So like I said I really enjoyed this, the love scenes are steamy and dirty (think outdoors, mud, and covered in blood dirty) and Bill well he is just delicious in a dangerous bad boy wanting to brush your hair kinda way. The romance aspect here was very good. I also really liked Sam's character and appreciated how his true self wasn't revealed right away. Bubba was another awesome little addition and the many townsfolk and their idiosyncrasies were fantastic. There are some surprising moments here and I never really knew where things were going to go next. Although I'll be honest I had a tough time keeping straight who was who. Getting many of (the many) secondary characters mixed up so that even at the end when the killer was revealed I had to back track to figure out who it was. Can't recommend this one enough.
5	1297296000	I am only halfway finished with the first book but already like it. There are a couple parts that have grossed me out but not too bad.....humans sucking blood from vampires.....ewww!I am a big fan of paranormal/fantasy and it's really hard for me to find books that I like. So if your anything like me (and can look past the very small section on blood drinking) you will like this one.Another good vampire book that hasn't gotten a lot of hype is "The Radleys".....check it out.
5	1297209600	Okay, so I'm just now getting into the Sookie Stackhouse novels.  And I absolutely love them (I've just finished the 6th).  This was a great beginning, and I'm a total addict now.  Being Southern, I appreciated the whole feel to Sookie and her neighbors.  And the quirkiness is intrinsic to the characters; being supernatural isn't what makes them delightfully offbeat.Plenty of others have given a blow-by-blow account of the book, so I won't do that.  I'll just tell you for a book you'll not want to put down, you have to grab this one.  In a market glutted with vamps and weres, this stands above the pack.
3	1296604800	I'm not going to compare the books to the television show. You may love one and hate the other or love/hate them both.The premise is interesting. The heroine, Sookie Stackhouse, is a telepath and she falls in love with a vampire. Things kind of go downhill from there. Sookie is the most well-developed character in the book and even then it's kind of hard to care one way or another about her. We get some vague notions of what her vampire lover, Bill, is like, but aside from that, everybody else in the story might as well be a cardboard cut-out propped up in the background. In fairness, as of the date of this review, I've only read the first two books in this series and it may well be that these characters will be fleshed out as the series continues. Still, it would be nice not to have to wait that long.Bottom line: interesting story, easy read, the narrative flows fairly well, but seriously lacks character development.Further note: The series sort of skirts the boundaries of paranormal romance (although I wouldn't properly categorize it as such). Readers looking for that sort of thing might be better served by Nalini Singh or Meljean Brook.
5	1296432000	Sorry. Couldn't help myself... :) But after a long dry spell for good fiction, I finally found something that I can't put down (and since I have it on my kindle for iphone app, i don't have to!)! It hold's my interest, keeps throwing plot curves, and I am only 1/2 way into the book and I had to review! I JUST found out that True Blood is based on these books, and I now have to wait to watch the series. If you want good writing, dark humor, and awesome sex scenes, this is the book for you. (Oh and how awesome is it that there are so many in the series?!?)
4	1296172800	I was a bit skeptical at first with this series but I had several of the books and decided that it couldn't hurt to start reading them.Sookie Stackhouse is a small town cocktail waitress with a gift. Not just any gift, she's telepathic and this prevents her from really holding a relationship, and from not being considered weird but the locals. But she continues on through her life anyway. This sounds pretty bland, that is until you add in the Vampires that sometimes come in and out of her life.Sookie meets Bill Comptom, a Vampire that's trying to mainstream himself and settle down into one house instead of constantly wandering around. Sookie saves his life, and then Bill saves hers. And then, a bond is formed. Some criticize her for this, but Bill comes in handy when several town locals end up dead. Bill ends up to be her greatest protector, but he simply can't be there for her always.This book is full of passion and sadness. The beginning starts out a bit slow but the action beings to pick up. It gets hard to put this book down at the end. You just want to keep reading it until you finally finish!
3	1296000000	I will be honest. I am only reading this series because all my friends are doing it. I felt like I needed to read it so I could participate in conversations. These are not good books. They are not well written. There has been more than one occasion when something made me roll my eyes. There have been several occasions when I was jarred out of the story thinking "that was dumb" or "who does that?" or "I don't need to hear about Sookie's hygiene rituals for an entire page!" The characters are thin, the plot is silly and none of the mythology is explained to my satisfaction. The sex is gratuitous and in some places really screeches the plot to a halt.That being said, these are not the worst books I have ever read. I find them entertaining enough to slog through the rest of the series so as not to be out of the pop culture loop. They are quick, and easy to read. Did I get my 8 bucks worth? Probably.  I've spent more money, for less entertainment, on popular movies.All in all don't expect great literary works of genius. But don't feel too guilty liking them a little.
4	1295827200	I had already watched the first season of True Blood before I picked up this novel, and I was a little worried I might get bored knowing the answer to the mystery. Gladly, I was mistaken. Although the essential plot is the same, the book exclusively follows Sookie Stackhouse's point of view. It's cleaner, neater, and more enjoyable than watching the escapades of the secondary characters from the tv show. Several of those characters were not in the book at all, while others were merely altered. Dead Until Dark and True Blood are both great entertainment, but if I had to pick, I prefer the book.What I loved about Dead Until Dark is the lush style of Charlaine Harris' writing-- her characters are sensual and her words are decadent. The style and setting are decidedly reminiscent of Anne Rice. The Louisiana setting is an obvious connection, but they both have a way of writing that gets your temperature climbing and your mind wandering... umm... south. Since the vampires in this universe can and do have intercourse, the erotic element has plenty of opportunity to shine. Charlaine Harris managed the tension with aplomb, and the book toes the line between sexy and raunchy. Sookie Stackhouse is a tantalizing mix of sweet and steamy, and that balance carries beautifully through the book.Charlaine Harris also manages to incorporate a tongue-in-cheek sense of humor in Dead Until Dark. After a particularly heated tumble with Bill, Sookie thinks, "This was pretty exotic stuff for a telepathic barmaid from northern Louisiana." I loved that line because that telepathic barmaid is pretty exotic in her own right. The humor in the book is subtle and clever. You won't find anything silly or childish in this story.Overall, the book was an engaging and titillating read. Fans of the tv show and fans of vampire fiction can both find something to enjoy. Dead Until Dark is a great addition to the vampire genre, and I am looking forward to sinking my teeth into the rest of the series. (Sorry for the bad pun, but the sentiment is real!)
5	1295654400	The first book in a delightful series about a waitress who everyone thinks is crazy and her really crazy friends.  Sookie Stackhouse is likeable and and has a certain naive charm that makes everything strange that happens seem almost....normal.  Almost.  This first book will suck you up and not let you go until you have the next one in your hands or kindle.  Then the next and the next.  The characters are a mix of stereotype and "the guy you knew in college" believable.  This is the third copy I have bought because I lend them to others and never get them back.Did I say I liked it?
5	1295136000	This series drew me in from page one. The multiple layers in the writing and the multitude of personalities seen in the array of characters is thoroughly entertaining. Once you pick up the first book, you will want to read the entire series.
1	1295136000	Like a lot of other reviews, I SO MUCH wanted to like this book.  I LOVED Twilight, LOVED PC Cast's House of Night series, LOVE romance novels and young adult fiction.  I believe I have a high tolerance for fluffy plots, angst, and sex.I got to page 183 before I gave up.  This book reads like a 9th grade wanna be novel. Everything - the characters, the plot, the dialogue, everything - is so thin that its hard to follow.  I'm all for novels that use regional dialects, as in PC Cast's House of Night series, but this was gratingly hicksville.And the sex - eeew.  I've read hundreds, if not thousands, of romance novels so I've read a lot of sex scenes...some good, some bad. The first one in this book was gross...gross like the snake up the butt in Kiss the Girls. After Sookie and Bill have sex for the first time - her first time - Bill uses his vampire blood to heal her on the inside. Yeah. He cuts his finger and begins to finger her. Seriously.This book had the worst of everything: the worst of the vampire angst from Twilight, the worst of the stupid heroine and country cliche dialogue of House of Night, the worst sex I've ever read, and the plot of a 9th grade literature assignment.
4	1295049600	Nothing against Stephenie Meyer's Twilight series but Edward and Bella have nothing on Bill and Sookie!  I started reading this series before the Trueblood HBO show came on, but I can agree that the book and the show are two different things.  Sure, the characters are the same, but Sookie is not a very strong woman in this book.  More time is spent on her family background and work life, wereas the show skips right to the action.  However, there is plenty of action in the book, with some brutal murders and romance along the way.  Character development is a little weak, but Charlaine Harris had to leave something open to continue on with the series.  All in all it's a great beginning point and a turn back to a more traditional look at vampires, which I enjoyed.  It's by no means the best book in the series but a necessary starting point to understand the rest of it.  Trust me, this series only gets better!
4	1294358400	Urban fantasy usually takes place in, you know, urban areas. Cities, big towns, and places where vampires and weres creep in dank alleys.But Charlaine Harris took a slightly different approach in the first novel of the Sookie Stackhouse series, "Dead Until Dark." While it has many of the genre staples -- werebeasties, vampires and superspeshul humans -- this series is solidly entrenched in warm Southern charm, humor and mellow mystery.In an alternate world where vampires have revealed themselves to the populace (courtesy of bottled faux-blood), waitress Sookie Stackhouse can read minds, which is more of a curse than a blessing.But when she encounters vampire Bill Compton, she discovers that she is unable to read vampire minds. Unfortunately she's run afoul of some vile people who want to cruelly drain Bill of his blood, so she charges out to save "the vampire Bill" from his silver bonds and blood-draining. They're mutually intrigued, and an odd little romance starts to bloom.But then Sookie's life is overturned by some supernatural personal problems -- a coworker dies with fang marks on her thigh, and her grandmother is viciously muredred. And as she tries to find the murderer, Sookie finds that the supernatural world is a lot more complicated -- and close to home -- than she ever dreamed."Dead Until Dark" does a great job of avoiding the usual pitfalls of urban fantasy -- it's not all doom'n'gloom, gothic pomposity and angst. In fact, Harris has a fun time spoofing it with the wannabe-seductive, cheesily-dressed "fang-bangers ". Instead, it's soaked in down-home Southern charm, the pleasant little town of Bon Temps, and a generally mellow, relaxed atmosphere.Of course, it doesn't stop Harris from piling on gruesome murders and some truly nasty people, both vampire (the vampire gang crashing at Bill's house) and human (the "Rats"). Her style is warm, steady and mildly tongue-in-cheek ("the traditional capes and tuxes for the men to many Morticia Adams ripoffs among the females"), but there are some decidedly bleak moments and moral dilemmas woven in there.Sookie is a likable character -- an unpretentious and no-nonsense waitress who doesn't go looking for trouble, but whose telepathic talents often draw it to her. And Harris handles some horrible topics through her, such as her childhood molestation and her bickering with her slutty, not-too-bright brother.The supporting characters are also pretty well-drawn -- her kindly boss Sam turns out to have his own supernatural secret (werecollies!), the gorgeous golden Viking Eric, and her lovable Grandmother. Bill is a rather bland character as love interests go, but Harris does give him a great sense of chilly "otherness" and great age ("It's hard for me to get used to young ladies with so few clothes on")."Dead Until Dark (Southern Vampire Mysteries, No. 1)" is a solid, pleasantly down-home little urban fantasy, with lots of vampires, the odd shapeshifter, and some nasty little murder mysteries. Fun little urban fantasy book.
4	1294272000	This the first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series and this is also the series on which the HBO show True Blood is based. I watched season 1 of True Blook before reading this book and season 1 of the show follows the book pretty closely, even having Sookie wear some of the identical clothes she wears in the book, although there are some characters and plot elements in season 1 of the show that were not in the book (maybe they come in later books). The premise of the series is original and interesting -- it is set in a world where vampires exist and have recently "come out of the closet" and are trying to live in regular society in conjunction with humans. People believe that vampires are not really dead but are actually infected with a virus that causes their "condition." The main character, Sookie Stackhouse, is a human waitress in a bar in a small town in Louisiana. She is unusual in that she has some psychic ability (she can read minds) and, because of that, is somewhat alienated as a "freak." She meets Bill, a vampire trying to "mainstream" with humans and falls in love with him. The love story is the central premise although the overall themes of racism (against vampires) and being "different" are also a heavy focus.  Putting aside some of the trite dialogue, this is a strong series in an increasingly popular genre.
4	1293926400	First off, I'll admit, I never would have actually picked up any of the Sookie Stackhouse books if I hadn't happened to catch one random episode of True Blood. There was this gorgeous, buff werewolf, and I'm such a sucker for werewolves. So, I just had to start reading!Dead Until Dark is the first in the series, and for me, it's a little bit of a slow start. I can tell a lot of groundwork is being laid, and I can tell there's a lot we're going to learn about vampires in later novels, but it still felt a little slow on the build-up. This book never actually hooked me - as in, I never had that I-can't-put-it-down feeling. I found I could drop the book in the middle of a sentence and be fine with it. However, one thing that kept me reading way just how conversational the book felt. I felt like I was sitting down with Sookie over coffee and she was telling me an amazing story. I also quite liked the mixing of genres. It's like a strange paranormal/romance/vampire/detective novel, and I love it! The constant dabbles of humor were wonderful, and the...ah..."romantic" scenes were delightfully steamy without being overtly vulgar. Nothing turns me off a book more than vulgar, uber-descriptive sex scenes.As for the main characters, I found I liked Sookie in the sense that she was strong and willful, and could obviously take care of herself, but I oftentimes found her a little annoying when it came to Bill and vampires in general. I get the obsessed-with-vampire vibe from her, and I get that they're fascinating and a new race and all, but when you're so willing to defend them to your fellow humans, even the unquestionably bad ones, it's just a little weird. I did like that she was a virgin, instead of some backwater hussy, especially when you compare her to Jason Stackhouse, her brother. As for Bill...well...he kinda rubbed me the wrong way. I found him manipulative and possessive and a little creepy. The love and trust between Bill and Sookie came out of no where for me. I felt it wasn't developed enough. She loves him because she can't hear his thoughts? She loves him because he was her first? She loves him because he's a vampire? None of this was made exactly clear, and I just hope there's more development on their feelings for one another in later books. For me, it was like Edward from Twilight all over again. I just don't get these vampire-obsessed girls! There's perfectly good men right in front of you, and they aren't undead!Speaking of perfectly good men, that brings me to secondary characters. Can I just please have a Team Sam button? Hot, owns a bar, is a shape shifter - what more do you need? But besides my love for Sam, I really appreciated how much all the characters, even minors, felt like they had such depth. While it was a lot to keep track of at times, it gave a sense of depth to the book, like these were real people in a real town. Even the other vampires were very well done. I really hope to see more of Eric in the future as well - Viking vampire? Yes please! And I really want to figure out exactly who Bubba really is. I have an idea or two, but I want it said!As for originality, Charlaine Harris really made her own vampire world, and it's fantastic! Legal citizens, synthetic blood, hotels just for vampires? Totally unique! I can't wait to read more and find out more about the whole political aspect to their culture. I also really liked that all the vampires were a little sinister and creepy, even the "good" ones. No pansy vamps to be found in these books.On a final note, I did feel the main murder plot was very well done. I totally did not figure out who it could be until almost right when Sookie did, and those last few scenes were intense and powerful. I really think the last third of the book was the best. (The Tealeaf Review)
5	1292976000	I've read the first 8, and they are all wonderful!!  This is not my normal topic of interest (no interest in any of the other vampire series), but this one has a great mix of action and romance.  Couldn't stop reading!!
5	1292976000	I've read the first 8, and they are all wonderful!!  This is not my normal topic of interest (no interest in any of the other vampire series), but this one has a great mix of action and romance.  Couldn't stop reading!!
2	1292716800	Short and Sweet Review, by Michelle:Found this book dull...surprising considering there are multiple murders, telepathics, vampires, and tons of sex!  You would think this would be the most thrilling book on the shelf, but noooope.  The writing style is bland and very amateurish. In fact, I've read unedited/self published vampire novels that are a much higher caliber of writing. I didn't have high expectations (try not to anymore, since I'm hopelessly addicted to fantasy and paranormal fiction ... and there is a LOT of bad stuff out there), but I was still disappointed.
3	1292630400	The subject matter in this book was entertaining for an easy read, but it was poorly written. I figured I would read this novel to see what all the fuss was about, and found out that I do not want to continue reading the series.It's good for an easy read about vampires and such, but as a literary snob I had to comment on the writing style.
4	1292284800	First a disclaimer: I had not heard of Charlaine Harris, Sookie Stackhouse, Bill Compton, or any of the characters from "Dead Until Dark," until I watched the HBO series True Blood.  By the end of the series' first season I had become intensely interested in reading the series of books upon which the show was based, and so I bought the boxed set of (7) books, the first of which is of course "Dead Until Dark".  The book won the Anthony Award for Best Paperback Mystery in 2001."Dead Until Dark" revolves around the life of a small town waitress, Sookie Stackhouse, who makes her home in Bon Temps, Louisiana.  The book and series is a first-person account of Sookie's life as a barmaid, who also happens to be a telepath, after she starts dating a local Vampire named Bill Compton.In "Dead Until Dark", Bill and the rest of the Vampire community have come out of the proverbial closet so-to-speak and into the light around the world seeking to become part of the human world.  Though they can only come out at night, Vampires have made their presence felt throughout society and dating the "undead" has becomes almost fashionable.  And drinking their blood can bestow super-human abilities, or drive the consumer mad.But naive Sookie, who lives with her grandmother in the family home, falls for Bill Compton--who was turned right after the Civil War--for himself and he becomes her first lover.  But her association with him brings with it a heap of troubles and pain that is oftentimes exasperated by her telepathic abilities.My ThoughtsCatherine Harris has woven together a pretty compelling story in "Dead Until Dark."  Sookie Stackhouse is a very likeable sort; sweet, beautiful, sexy, innocent, yet she is also written with spunk, and a zest for life.  The book supporting characters, especially Sam Merlotte, the owner of Merlottes, the shape-shifting own of the bar she works at, who she has known for five years and has an unrequited romantic attachment with."Dead Until Dark" takes some of the old Vampire lore (indeed other bedtime story myths are explored as well) and fuses it together with some freshly minted, but believable ones.  The result is a great read that never fails to entertain.  To be sure there are some slow patches, but they are few and far between.  The narrative is smartly written, though infused with more than a touch of southern comfort and traditional southern African American prejudice, wherein all of the Black characters are two-dimensional and decidedly boring.  No matter, I have come to expect nothing more from today's crop of writers."Dead Until Dark" brings to life in a new way one of the oldest myths in human existence, one that refuses to die an honored death.  However, that's okay, but  Harris makes it all interesting, fresh and new.  So much so that I have not been able to put the book down and finished it in record time; on to the next book in the series.Oh, by the way, the book and HBO series True Blood, have some similarities, but there are vast differences between the two as well.  And reading the book (series) does bring broader understanding to both.Other Books in the Sookie Stackhouse series:o Living Dead in Dallas (March 2002)o Club Dead ((May 2003)o Dead to the World ((May 2004)o Dead as a Doornail (May 2005)o Definitely Dead (May 2006)o Altogether Dead (May 2007)o From Dead to Worse (May 208)o Dead and Gone (May 2009)o A Touch of Dead (October 2009)o Dead in the Family (May 2010)
1	1292112000	I was looking forward to purchasing this series of books, but couldn't get through the free first chapter offered by Amazon. Dissapointed, but will check out the TV series.
4	1291593600	I have never watched "True Blood", don't really care for vampire stories, and only read the first novel in the Twilight series (since I have a teenage daughter who loves them) but yet was intrigued enough to pick up this first vampire novel by Charlaine Harris. If I were you, I would be wondering why the heck a person would pick up a vampire book after what I have just shared with you, but it just kept coming up in my "we think you will like this" list from Amazon and I have discovered many enjoyable reads by following those, so decided to give it a whirl.Sookie Stackhouse is a southern, hardworking waitress who lives with her grandmother and has the "disability" of reading minds. Her brother lives nearby in the home they lived in as children and he is a wild one. The premise of the story is that vampires may now roam the country legally and no longer have to hide. Bars stock synthetic blood and hotels catering exclusively to vampires have been opened. The world is a different place with this new development, but when dead bodies begin to turn up in Alabama, the vampires are the first to be suspected as being the perpetrators. Of course Sookie has found a cute vampire that makes her heart do flips and he is right up there on the list of suspects.I was surprised to find myself enjoying this book tremendously even with the background I shared with you earlier. There is a humor and creativity that made me enjoy the novel regardless of storyline. Quite frankly there was a bit of Harry Potter whimsy throughout that was just delightful. While there was longing gazing at our vampire hero, it did not overtake the book but largely fit the narrative and added interest.This is a novel that contains mystery, romance (lust), and humor - a very enjoyable read overall (and it surprised me how much I really liked it).
3	1291593600	I've read some irritating vampire stories in my time, and I must admit this doesn't even come near them. Except for one thing: Sookie Stackhouse.This is my second time reading this first book of the series. When I first read it, the show hadn't even come out yet. I decided I did not want to read more because Sookie really irritated me. Second time around, she's still more irritating than ever, but with one of my best friends' assurance that the books get better, I went ahead and already started the second. But to stay on point....I "kind of" understand how Sookie can be so immature even though she's 25. Because of her "disability, or gift, whatever you want to call it," she hasn't had many experiences. What I don't understand is how she falls in love pretty much right away and feels all confident and on top of the world all of a sudden. She's even kinda snobbish, too. I felt like she looks down on people, and I certainly do not like that. Also, I feel like she LOVED the fact that she was a weirdo right from the beginning, even though she wanted us to think she was feeling bad about it. Maybe it's her desperate need for approval, I'm not sure, but a lot of times I found myself wanting to punch some sense into her face.The other characters are way more interesting, especially Jason, Eric (!), Lafayette, Arlene and Sam. I really, really like Sam. I hope we get to see lot more of them in the following books-- well, having started the second book, I know we won't see one if them, but I'm not giving away who just in case.The plot is rather exciting, so I don't have anything negative to say for that. I don't know anything about Louisiana or New Orleans, so I can't comment on that either. I guess my biggest problem with the book is that I feel like I have Sookie's disability, but I can't seem to put up my guard and shut her up.
4	1291075200	I read a lot of "big" books, you know, Russian dudes and Papa H. and such.  But I decided I enjoyed "True Blood" enough, I wanted to check out from whence it came--Ms. Harris' first book of the series.Lemme tell you, folks, one thing Ms. Harris is a master (mistress?) at telling bunches of story with few words, and that, dear readers is a rarity!  She doesn't waste your time, yet at the same time, she makes a thoroughly delightful, tongue in cheek visit to the deep south I know so well.  And she shows us real people, working class folks as our heroes taking on the forces of darkness with pluck, honesty, and honor.  I have known Sookies and Jasons, and their simple and direct approach to life and its problems.  Want inspiration?  Don't go to the winners of a civil war.  Life holds fewer illusion for them, so... Ms. Harris very deftly plays this down-to-earth south against the very unearthly vampires and other critters d'jour. These folks are rooted and won't move from the very soil the vampires inhabit.  No way, Jose.Take Miss Sookie, our heroine and sex pot (and mind reader)-- she literally stands nose to nose with the baddest of the supernatural, and she shames them, blames them, puts them in their place and makes them sit down and SHUT UP!  Oh, how I love this gal.  I really do (and not just because she's a hot little cookie, god bless her filly tail).  It's because I KNOW that woman.  I have seen her in so many women down south who hold it all together.This is the antithesis of Anne Rice's more florid and high-class N'awlins  This is butter beans and pick-ups and women who work hard but are feminine as they come, all of them with long hair, because a southern gal is proud to be a woman, and she knows that long hair and wicked flirtation is a joy.  Political correctness does not dominate their world, thank goodness! A man or woman can still approach someone they know and say, "Darlin', you sho' nuff look fine tonight.", and not risk a tongue lashing.I miss that.  I really do.  I miss the Sookie's and the Jason's and the Lafayette's of my dearly departed-from south.  Oh, and by the way.... the black folk in Ms. Harris' book are not caricatures of the down-trodden or shuck and jive artists.  They are as we all are, varied as the human spectrum, AND there are many white folk and darker complexted folk who get along just fine, thank you.  We never hear about that, but I guarantee you, country folk of all colors know each other more than our prejudice believes.I moved back to the Midwest, and it's been a beautiful place to raise my family, but reading this book actually brings tears as well as terror to my heart... oh, Lord, miss Sookie's brave heart.  And if I had showed up in that County, I am sure I would have been tagged "Big Steve" because when you are a big'n, six eight and 350 pounds, everyone slaps that "handle" on you!  White country and black country all did the same-they weaved their language like poetry, raw and beautiful and funnier than you can ever imagine.So, now, I bow to you Ms. Harris, and I know where you are come'n from, my dear.  So folks, read her books not only because she spings a whopping good yarn, but if you do not know the south, you will know one hell of a lot more, because the bravery, innate intelligence, bluster and compassion are worn on the sleeve.  Buy this book, oh ye of little faith left in humanity.No fairy castles or wasp-waisted cartoon characters.  Just a good old gal, Sookie, as decent and kind a soul as you'll ever meet, takes on a world of hurt, and comes up smiling.  Now THERE'S one sexy lady, and she sweats, juts her jaw and never backs off an inch.  And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the south I know.  And the monsters are there, too... not vampires, but just as deadly--our fellow human beings.
5	1290729600	First of all, I have to say that I am not usually a fan of horror, vampires, blood, etc. BUT this series and especially this first book grabbed me and I think I have read them all at least twice, some more than I care to admit.  Sookie is a fantastic heroine surrounded by such an interesting bunch of characters that you can't put this book down and will run out to get the next one (my recommendation- just buy the box set and save yourself the trips).  Charlaine Harris is a wonderful author!
5	1290384000	As a big vampire fan, the Sookie Stackhouse books are one of my favorites and are very addictive.  Can't wait to read more.
5	1289433600	Love, mystery, intrigue, humor, and vampires makes this book a wonderful read. Sookie is change of pace for all you vamp readers. I usually read Anita Blake novels, and it's a tough chick routine every book. It's nice to see Sookie Stackhouse with vulnerabilities and more feminity. If you like Anita Blake novels then you'll like Sookie Stackhouse's new perpective. Vampires are recognized as people with a disease in this novel. And the only reason they were accepted into society is because of a synthetic blood the Japanese created. This makes it possible for vampires to live w/o feeding on humans. It gives a more realistic approach to legal vapirism. Sookie is also a barmaid with not so ordinary abbilities. She is down to earth and we can relate with her. Sookie's also very funny. The combination of mystery and humor make this book's pages fly by. The Sookie Stackhouse books average a couple hundred pages, and you find your self wanting more. I recomend all the Southern Vampire novels by Charlaine Harris.
5	1289174400	I believe I have already given a review of this item, however for the second time.. Seller was prompt in sending this item. It was received in very good condition as advertised. I would be willing to use this seller again.
5	1289088000	I haven't seen the HBO series but I really enjoyed the book.  I liked most of the characters and was interested in what happened to them.  Definately worth the read.  I'm looking forward to the rest of the books in the series.
2	1288742400	I could care less if this book was based of the greatest TV show known to man. Dead Until Dark is probably the most boring book I've ever read. I don't know if its because I knew what would happen because of True Blood but one thing that can't be excused was the awkward writing. VERY awkward. That and the filler scenes are what pretty much turned me off on the book. I strongly believe that if a scene does not or will not contribute to the novel, then or later, it should be nixed. This is the same problem I had with Stephanie Meyer's Twilight, except I gave her's a four because the writing was really good.This is just my really biased opinion, but I do recommend you give this book a big pass because as you read on they get MUCH better and much MUCH more exciting.
5	1288656000	I LOVE this entire series of books.  I have read every book that is currently out.  This first book is the slowest moving of them all but is a great read and paves the way for all the rest of the books.Highly recommended!
4	1288483200	After a series of serious books , I needed something light to read.I made the right choice with this book. Its fun , suspenseful , exciting and intriguing. I read it in one go! I believe that this was a very original take on the vampire genre.I have hated almost all the vampire novels and I was almost not going to read this one.For a change I actually admire the girl-Sookie Stackhouse. She is funny, gutsy, has self-respect and most of all, she does not whine!Moreover the vampires actually behave like vampires....not some saints in making.I usually avoid this genre but I enjoyed every minute of reading this book. It is much better than the show.I am definitely going to read the rest of the books in the series. Dead Until Dark is singlehandedly responsible for dissolving my dislike and avoidance of the vampire genre.This book is not going to win any literary awards, ofcourse.. it is not some groundbreaking novel. This book doesn't raise any questions about important issues nor is it something that will stay with me for a lifetime.It is  just pure entertainment!Overall :Engrossing and enjoyable!Recommended :YES! Especially if you want to read something light and just want to be entertained.
3	1288224000	I know I know. I am supposed to prefer the novel to the movies. This is definitely the case with many other books I have read. But after having read this first book in the True Blood series of books, I don't plan on reading any more of them---> I am sticking to the tv version.Why?Well for starters, I felt that I wasted so much time reading that Sookie opened up this cabinet, made a sandwich, opened the door to the bathroom, etc.  Yes, I understand that we need to feel just how mundane her small-town life is... but gee, this girl's life must have been monotonous before vampires came to Bon Temps.I do have to say that she is a very like-able character. And she is very well-portrayed on the television series. I just couldn't get into the writer's writing style. (I am a "read every single word out loud in your head" type of reader so that made this a gruelingly slow read through mundane door opening, sandwich-making, etc.)Another thing that I didn't like was that the vocabulary was a bit awkward for Louisiana. Some word phrasing was authentic, but some things I don't think I would ever hear anyone say.Overall rating 3 stars, but 5 for the tv series because it cuts out all of the slow bits of Sookie's mundane life. :)
5	1288051200	Blood and Sunlight: A Maryland Vampire StoryWhat a wonderful premise- the young outcast waitress Sookie Stackhouse suffers from a "disability"- telepathy and a curse that alienates her from her family and friends. She longs for the company of a similarly gifted creature. And what could be better than one of the newly outted vampires. In walks Bill Compton into her bar and life will never be the same.The setting of Bon Temps is detailed, rich and authentic. Sookie's many relationships are explored- her near romance with her boss Sam, her intense relationship with Bill, her warm and loving bond with her grandmother, and more.  It's actually a very human book.Having read the entire series, I can say that this is unequivocally the best. Later, Harris gets desperate and begins to out every supernatural creature on the planet, puts Sookie into gory and horrific situations, and substitutes empty sex scenes where there was once complicated character development.Enjoy this one- you won't find a better (and less sparkly) collection of romantic, vicious, and delightful vampires.
3	1287273600	If you are looking to kill a couple hours with an easy read, Charlaine Harris' books are the answers. The TV show stays close to the first book, but as it progresses, the show and the book sorta do their own separate ways. This is good and understandable-The show has to flow, and the books, while numbered and so tie one to the next, can stand alone. So you can read book 4 without having read 1-3.I aliken Harris' books to Jason Mraz of music. I mean, you don't think they are great yet they aren't repulsive. Easy read, and you feel like you can cross a book off your "to read" list pretty quickly.And like the easy listening guilty pleasure aspect of Mraz, Harris' style of writing is fitting of that. The easeness of completing one book makes you want to go through the rest (i am guilty of finishing up the 10 books in a week, sneaking them anytime i could). Am i smarter as a result? no. Am i blown away? no. Do i want to tell people that i've read the entire series? no. See, the perfect guilty pleasure..
2	1287014400	*May Contain Spoilers*Alright, first off I have to say I had a chinchilla named Sookie (spelled Suki).  The second thing I have to say is, they made a TV series off of this?  I sure hope the rest of the books are better otherwise they must have really had to jazz it up for television.  While there were some good aspects, I just had really hoped for much more from this book.Sookie is a small town girl living near New Orleans.  She works as a cocktail waitress and has decidedly no love life (despite being a pretty girl) and mostly just stays with her Grandma when not working.  Then everything changes when Bill comes to town.  Bill is no ordinary guy, he's a vampire.  Now, it is important to note that vampires have come out of the closet so to speak in this book reality.  They live on synthetic blood, and real if they're not caught and are kind of the "in" thing to be around right now.  So of course Sookie is especially charmed with Bill.  What makes him even more special is that for her whole life, Sookie has been able to read minds, but she can't read Bill's which is a relief to her.While she romantically pursues this new vampire in town, a couple of murders start happening in the quiet town.  And they all seem to have something in common; women who associate with vampires and are blue collar workers, exactly the description Sookie fits.  With her new boyfriend and her brother as prime suspects and her mind reading not helping her at all she's not sure what to do.  To add to it, her boss Sam has also started expressing an interest in her as well.  Between her love life and the murders, she's not getting much rest or time to think.The characters in this novel were kind of shallow to me.  While the vampires were largely supposed to be that way, it also spread into the regular characters.  Sookie's brother has more description of his personality than she does as the main character.  There were also some characteristics of Sookie that weren't lifelike to me.  As having been molested as a child, she sure didn't have any hangups about hopping into bed for the first time ever with Bill after barely knowing him.  That just doesn't sound like something that would happen to me.  The only character I really did like was Sam.  I thought he was well developed and much more interesting than Bill.  It was a shame he was only in the book for a small amount.Harris' writing is descriptive, but somewhat juvenile. It was like she tried to put everything she possibly could into it, but didn't take the time to organize her thoughts.  Her characters go from one random thought to another with no reason and some of the scenes could have been cut out altogether as they didn't add anything to the story.  As far as the sex scenes, they were short and didn't seem genuine or even interesting.  To the positive aspects she does have an interesting concept of vampires and how she fits them into her world.  I thought her take was very unique and I hope in the later novels she develops it more.It definitely wasn't my favorite book and I would say its probably good for fluff reading.  I"ll probably end up reading the rest of the series just because I hate to leave things unfinished.  It is my hope her writing and plots become better with each additional book.Dead Until DarkCopyright 2001292 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2010
5	1286150400	Didn't even know the books existed until after I watched the show. I wish I would have read the books first, but I am really enjoying them now. Easy to read, love it.
4	1285891200	Yes, I somehow managed to make it through the last five years without running into Sookie. But, having noticed that literally everyone I know has read the books, I decided it was time to join the club.I was generally pleased. Is it great literature? No. But, when it comes down to it, I generally don't like great literature. I like good stories with compelling characters, snappy dialogue, and lots of action. Dead Until Dark delivered on all three.Could the story have been tighter? Sure.Am I less than impressed with the immediate love of Bill and Sookie? Yes, but unlike the case of a certain emo, teen, dark-haired vampire lover, I at least get why Sookie loves Bill. I'm a tad fuzzy on why Bill loves Sookie, beyond the fact that the story requires it, and for this level of story, I think that's fine.Book two is on my library queue, and I am awaiting it eagerly.
2	1285804800	I finally gave in and decided to try this series because I had heard so much about it. But boy was I disappointed. Sookie is naive, weak and not very smart. Although she claims to be smart, I had to keep reminding myself that she wasn't "simple" like everyone thought. She was also very naive and pretty much had to have someone spell out to her what he was talking about when he said someone liked rough sex. I'm also tired of the "I'm in my mid 20's and still a virgin" thing, it's not realisitc and most people can't relate to it. She was a very weak character, she lets her brother treat her horribly without saying a word. She didn't do anything when he hit her across the face or when he implied that it was her fault she was molested as a young child. At that time I lost all my respect for her. I can't like a book when I do not like the main character. I will not be reading the rest of this series and I'm not quite sure why this book is so popular. There are many far better paranormal romance series than this.
5	1285718400	I am hooked on the show "True Blood" so I had to read the novels that inspired it.  The first book was great.  It was not the same at the show but had the same feel and that is what I wanted most.  The world is so rich and the characters so fun and complex it is really hard to put the book down.  I'm reading the next one now.  I can see how this inspired such s cool show.  Great book!
3	1285372800	Fun read. Humor and suspense mixed with romance. However, I tried to like Sookie and Vampire Bill, but the characters just didn't quite make it to my heart. I certainly didn't see anything in Bill to sweep me off my feet. I will try the second in the series; sometimes improvement is seen as a series progresses.
1	1285200000	Where to begin?  I cannot recommend buying or reading this book.This seems to be one of the worst, what's the word, "harlequin" romance novels I have encountered in my existence on this planet.  Romance isn't even the word - how about "sexual fantasy on paper."Here's my rant:  (I don't reveal anything that isn't revealed within the first 20 pages)Sookie, who just so happens can read minds and understand everyone's thoughts and feelings, is a pretty young woman who is down on her luck.  She's single, works at a diner, and is supporting her sweet, elderly grandma.  Then comes a mysterious stranger, an unemotional vampire, whose mind Sookie cannot read and she pretty much falls in love with him on the spot.  Then he claims her as his 'own' and sookie starts trying to read into and overly complicate his simple, unemotional behavior.Bad guys are characteristically bad, other vampires are characteristically bad (but sexually bad, of course), and good people are always introduced as being good, because remember Sookie can read everyone's thoughts (except when the author blatantly tries to introduce mystery into a novel containing someone who can read minds).On top of that, the writing style is simple - which I have no qualms against since everyone needs to read books, but the story spun on these pages will make anyone feel like they are wasting their time.  No real witty dialogue, forced emotional tension, and some tired, boring romantic fantasy involving vampires.
5	1284854400	Excellent book!  Great condition!  I didn't really think it  was my type...but now I want to read the rest in the series.
2	1284422400	I really wanted to like this book, but struggled through it. It was a mind numbing read which can be a good or bad thing depending on the person.  However I think anyone who has an education beyond a 9th grade level will find Harris' writing perfunctory at best (Harris has a REAL obsession with double t's, ex: merlotte, maudette, uncle berett and sid matt are names of a few of the characters/places)If you liked the Twilight series and the idea of sleeping with and being bitten by vampires excites you then this is the book for you.  Unfortunately I found the idea trite and the storyline just an excuse for the unfortunate looking author to write about her own twisted fantasies.It COULD have been a good story if 1)it had been written by someone with a better mastery of the English language and 2) the over the top homosexual and harlequin-esque sex scenes where scaled down or at the very least more spread out (at one point in the book there is about 3 different sexual encounters within 10 pages, makes me wonder what was- or wasn't happening in the author's life during the time she wrote those pages)  I did give it 2 stars instead of one because I do believe that the writing is just a notch better then harlequin romances and if you seek that sort of grocery store trash read, then the Stackhouse series would be a fine choice as it is a little more intellectual.I do intend to watch the HBO series. I have a feeling that, as unusual as it may be, that the media version may be better then the book.  I'm just glad I got the book used and didn't spend full price.  For anyone interested I suggest buying it used as it is not worth full price.
4	1284422400	Unlike most humans, Sookie Stackhouse can read people`s minds. And having supernatural ability like her's attracts other supernatural beings, like Bill, who is a vampire.  Sookie is very attracted to Bill, and he is attracted to her. As their relationship blossoms, deaths begin to surround Sookie and Bill.  Many think the murderer is a vampire.I completely understand the magnetic pull to this series. Sookie is an interesting, almost-normal character with an ability she doesn't want. Bill is an awkward, blood-thirsty vampire. Like Bill, I thought his relationship with Sookie was strange. I could not understand why they felt the need for each other, but that feeling wore off as I kept reading and accepted their relationship ... sort of.This is not a teenage vampire romance. So if you are looking for another Twilight, this may not be for you. There are adult situations and I would recommend no one under 16 read.
2	1284336000	I am a fan of the HBO series 'True Blood", which as I am sure you are aware, is based on the Harris books.  Having read several heavier books lately, I was ready for something lighter, but the not something entirely weightless.  OK, I generously gave it two stars, because the books were mildly entertaining beach reading, and required little or no thought or concentration, which was perfect for an extended-family week at the beach and car travel.  I'm going to try to keep this simple and try not to be too harsh. First, if you are a fan of the HBO series, be warned that the high camp of the TV production is nowhere to be found in the books.  Harris's writing id downright dry in my opinion.  She wants to take advantage of sensational subject matter, yet her characters are shallow, the dialog flat, puerile, predictable, and boring.  And if a writer cannot take advantage of the setting of Louisiana swamps to transport the reader, something is really wrong.  IT appears to me that she is trading on the popularity of the vampire myth and nothing more, perhaps inspired by Anne Rice.  HBO has done Harris a HUGE favor by elevating her stories far above and beyond the books themselves, selling a book or two to curious people like me.  I even gave the book series a fair chance by reading the first two, but the more I read, the less I liked them.  My greatest complaint is that I think she writes on about a sixth-grade level, perhaps even panders to that age and / or reading ability, while presenting gross and explicit violence and sex.  The prose is flat and lacks even the slightest adult sophistication.  This adds to my suspicion that Harris and her publishers are coat-tailing on Twilight with recent mass printings. One last thing:  The central plot device, vampires with an elixir to eliminate human feeding and assimilation into human culture, is blatantly stolen from George R.R. Martin's "Fevre Dream" - a vastly superior, more original take on the vampire myth.  Anyway, if you like good vampire literature, stick to Bram Stoker's original, Anne Rice, Martin's "Fevre Dream" or Stephen King's "Salem's Lot". If you like dime store romance novels and want some about vampires, Charlaine Harris is your best bet.
2	1283817600	well, I really don't do the vampire theme. I read Anita Blake - Vampire Hunter years ago, liked it, and stopped when the story got boring and the theme too worn out. The reviews (and the HBO / Anna Paquin combination) made me give this a try.In short I can say two things: One, "well, nice". Never gripping, mostly boring, mildly entertaining, never surprising. Two - "sooooooooo worn out". Charlene simply does not add new value to the theme. The same as the rest, but only average.Some specifics. First, the "Vampire=Virus" thing is too anxious, and really does not pay off to the story. Makes everone look stupid in the process, really. Also, the world and the characters are totally shallow. Imagine: Someone can read minds. But does she do it? No. Okay, she does not like it, but NOTHING about the "interesting" things you could do with it. I don't think a single human being would behave like it - not without a massive compulsion, which Sookie does not have. Also the people behave totally one-dimensional, no one really has an even somewhat complex charachter, which - for example - manifests in not a single person being nervous around a (mind: proven!) mind-reader. I would be. Not so anyone in this book. So wasted!!! And nothing which plays with it - just an idea: Imagine a Poker game with a mind-reader. THAT might be an intersting scene :) . (You can win against one, though).Also the story folds around Sookie, but wouldn't hold up a single real-world-check. It's as if all people only act in relation to Sookie, as if life would stop if you wouldn't continue looking at her. But that's a flaw many books share if the world, the characters or the story is not well-thought. Speaking of the world ... the accusation of Sookies brother takes ages to form. Then it is shallow as hell, but no one really notices, but Sookie. And there are NO compelling indices apart form the too obvious, and really no one reacts to that. People get killed, and other people don't do so much as notice. Buildings get burned down, and well, nothing really happens. And then the story really get going on the last 20 pages or so, and it's over.Then the Sex. Well, I suppose each Vampire Novel Must Have Sex is a rule now. Nice. Yeah, cool, whatever. That she's a virgin is a new touch. But it does not even add to the story. Somehow all that seems ... as if it would not really fit the story, or influence it. So why bother? With the Anne Rice novels it is different - there it is integral to the story, to the characters, the LIFE of them. Here it's just ... there. Like a cup of coffee. Take it or leave it out - makes no difference. Which makes me ask "Why bother at all?".It's no good. All too easy. Amused me slightly and killed my time.Maybe I'll give the series a try. Might be better than the book.
5	1283817600	If you can stand to not take yourself seriously and you enjoy a good romp through a book, then the Southern Vampire Mysteries are for you. I've explained it to friends as a trashy romance novel thats fun to read. AND, if you are a True Blood fan, its even more fun to get backstory about details that are left out on-screen. Its a fast and easy read so even if its not for you, it goes quickly. As for me, I plan on reading every one in the series!
5	1283385600	Tells the story of Sookie, a mind reader, and her adventures in a small southern town called Bon Temps. In Harris's world, Vampires are "mainstreaming" with society, thanks to artificial blood that keeps them alive. Sookie is a charming character with strong values but an open mind. She can sometimes be nieve, but her character is none-the-less believable and relatable. There is a mystery in Bon Temps, and Sookie is going to find out what is going on. This is a bit different than the series, making it enjoyable even to those who have seen the HBO show.
5	1283299200	SPOILER ALERT!!! In terms of paranormal romance series this is my favorite. This was the first series of vampire books that I read after Twilight lured me into this world. I really enjoy how Charlaine Harris eases you into this time where vampires exist alongside humans. Harris makes all of the characters likable and situations believable. I highly recommend reading this series. There is so much action that you wont be able to put the books down. Here is the wiki breakdown from the first installment in The Southern Vampire Mysteries.In Dead Until Dark, Sookie Stackhouse is a telepath who lives in a world where vampires have recently come out to the public and become legal citizens, following the development by the Japanese of a synthetic blood. "Tru Blood" makes it possible for vampires to live in the open without the need to hunt humans for sustenance. Sookie is a waitress and she lives with her grandmother, Adele Stackhouse, and has an older brother,Jason. Sookie falls in love with a vampire, a Civil War veteran named Bill Compton. Bill's mind is 'silent' to Sookie. In his company, she is free from the constant strain of blocking or ignoring the thoughts of the humans around her. In his first visit, Sookie saves him from the Rattrays (vampire drainers), and Bill returns the favor the next night when the Rattrays attack Sookie. In the meantime, there are several murders in Bon Temps, and people believe that vampires are behind the murders because many of the bodies are of women who have been known to hang out with vampires, and most have been bitten. The Bon Temps police suspect Sookie's brother Jason and arrest him because he has been romantically linked to two of the victims. Sookie wants to help her brother and asks Bill to take her to a vampire bar called Fangtasia in nearby Shreveport. Fangtasia is owned by Eric Northman, a vampire sheriff who is much older and more powerful than Bill. Eric soon discovers that Sookie can be useful and orders Bill to have her use her telepathic ability to determine the identity of the person who has been stealing from his bar. Sookie finds out that Eric's partner, Longshadow (a vampire), has been stealing money, and she almost gets killed in the process. Eric saves Sookie's life by staking Long Shadow when he attacks her. Back in Bon Temps, Sookie finds her grandmother Adele slaughtered in the kitchen. Bill, concerned with Eric's power over him and Sookie, decides to improve his own position within their vampire hierarchy. He asks Bubba, a dim-witted vampire, to protect Sookie while he is gone. Sookie discovers that her boss Sam is a shape-shifter when she lets a stray dog sleep beside her and finds a naked Sam in the morning. While Bill is gone, Sookie discovers that the murderer is her brother's friend Rene Lenier. He almost kills her, but she fights back. Badly injured, Sookie wakes up in the hospital and finds Bill by her side. Bill tells Sookie that he has become his area's investigator, working under Eric.Check out my other recommendations at [...]
3	1283040000	Sookie Stackhouse has been waiting for something her whole life but she didn't know exactly what it was until a vampire named Bill walks into Merlotte's, the bar where she works waiting tables. In the world of Dead Until Dark vampires are real. In fact, they've been out of the closet so to speak going on about two years. Everybody knows about them and they've even began to try to assimilate themselves into mainstream American society.Well, SOME of them have. Some live lawless lives using and preying on humans like they've done for thousands of years. But Bill is different. He's come home to the small Louisiana town of Bon Temps after 200 years of wandering. He wants to stay in Bon Temps. Become part of the town. Of course, just because everyone knows about the existence of vampires doesn't mean they aren't still feared.People fear Sookie as well. It's well known that she has a "gift". Actually, Sookie calls it a "disability". Sookie can read the minds of the people around her at will. Over the years she's been able to sublimate those thoughts into white noise that she doesn't pay much attention to unless she wants to, but it's still a pain in the butt to always keep a shield up. It's also a real block to getting a date. She's 25 years old and still a virgin. But Bill is different. He's the first vampire she's ever met and she learns something about him that tickles her pink. She cannot hear Bill's thoughts. Finally, she can be around someone with whom she can experience some peace and quiet.Just because it's a small town doesn't mean Bon Temps is a QUIET town. On the same night Bill shows up at Merlotte's, Sookie has to rescue him from a pair of white trash "drainers". Some people drain blood from vampires against their will because the blood has extraordinary healing and narcotic powers if drunk by a human. The drainers sell the blood to buyers like dealers selling coke. If the vampire dies in the process, well, that's just too bad. And then there's the problem of the mysterious murders of two young townswomen. Both of the girls just happen to have been waitresses at Merlotte's....just like Sookie! Sookie begins to think she might be next even as her fellow residents start to think that Bill might be responsible since the murders started just as he arrived in town.I picked up this novel simply because I was such a big fan of HBO's True Blood tv series. I don't have cable so I either have to watch at somebody's house or wait until they come out on video. So I thought I'd start reading the books until I can see the third season. I have to admit I was a bit disappointed initially by this first book. Usually, the book is always deeper and more detailed than the live action version, but that isn't the case with Dead Until Dark. My first reaction is to say that the tv show is the superior version, but I really can't. The experience is too apple and orange for a couple of reasons.The biggest difference between the tv show and the novel is the fact that the entire book is completely narrated from Sookie's point of view. She does read some minds when people are around her, but she has no first hand knowledge of scenes taking place outside of her direct involvement. The easiest way to see the difference is to imagine the True Blood tv show being cut down to only scenes where Sookie appears. It's a pretty drastic change and the novel is poorer for it.Because of the limited viewpoint, the supporting characters occupy a lot less space in the book. For instance Lafayette is barely mentioned. His role probably occupies about 3 paragraphs total. And if you're looking for Tara and her addict mom, you'll search in vain in this first novel. There is also no Jessica, the young girl that Bill had to turn into a vampire towards the end of the first season. There are also characters that appear only in the novel.The book is almost completely focused on Sookie and Bill's evolving relationship. This isn't a bad thing, it's just that True Blood has a pretty big spotlight for its ensemble cast whereas the novel shines a laser pointer almost exclusively on our two lovers. Jason, Sookie's brother, is present, but he's much more of an jerk, even to his sis. He is a very unlikeable dude. Jason's character in the tv show seems to be taken from a dumb, handsome, and loyal friend of Sookie's named JB du Rone who only appears in the book.The aspect of the book that didn't change was the broad plotline of the serial killings of the Merlotte's waitresses and the search for their murderer. After my disappointment over the lack of continuity or comparable experience with the tv show, I began to accept that this was a totally different take on the story. I started to enjoy reading it then. Mostly because it was fun to be surprised at how different it was. Some characters are reversed, some stay the same, some are absent entirely. The same can be said of the action. So if you're gonna try these books, approach them with an open mind. See them and the the tv shows as different reflections of a prism. Personally, in the end, I have to say I enjoy the tv show more. But I had fun with the book and will continue reading the series.
5	1282780800	Vampire stories, books, movies, etc., have always been a guilty pleasure of mine.  I mean real vampire stories, not teen angst vampire stories.  Even has a youngster, I got a thrill watching old Dracula films.  Additionally, the urban paranormal detective genre is one of my favorites, so it really is a surprise that I have never read any of the Southern Vampire Mysteries...until now.  On a recent vacation I had the luxury of time and read all 10 Sookie Stackhouse novels back to back, in the space of about 2 weeks.  They were perfect vacation reads:  fun, easy, and fast-paced.  DEAD UNTIL DARK started the series off with a bang and propelled me right through the entire series to date.Sookie Stackhouse has a "disability," as she calls it; she is a telepath and can hear the thoughts of the world around her.  Over the years, she has learned to block out all those unwanted thoughts, but it is exhausting to keep her shields up all the time.  Until she met Bill.  You see, Bill is a vampire.  When a viable synthetic blood substitute was invented by the Japanese, vampires around the world came out of the coffin, so to speak, and joined society.  Bill is the first vamp that Sookie has ever met.  And, miraculously, Bill's mind is blank to Sookie.  Being around Bill is quiet, peaceful, restful...or is it?  While being involved with a vampire may be soothing to Sookie's mind, her life is suddenly a chaotic mess, and she ends up with much more danger and adventure than she ever bargained for.DEAD UNTIL DARK is a delightfully odd mix of genres:  chick-lit, paranormal, romance, and mystery all rolled up into a fun little package.  The pace is fast and intense, the writing style is simple and easy, and the characters are unique and very likable.  And Charlaine Harris certainly knows how to captivate her audience.Overall, I found DEAD UNTIL DARK (and ALL the Sookie Stackhouse novels) to be a perfect vacation read.  DEAD UNTIL DARK made it very easy to relax my brain.  Once I started reading, I couldn't put it down.  I just sank into Sookie's world, stayed there, and let all my cares drift away.  And that is exactly what any good novel should do.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
2	1282780800	I love mystery stories, and while not a "vampire" fiction fan, I was eager to read this book (mainly due to its popularity). Unfortunately, this was honestly the worst bit of trash I have read in decades, and all the positive reviews have left me wondering just what in the world passes for a quality these days?The mystery itself was vaguely intriguing and held my interest, as did the hierarchy of the vampires, but the fact that the storyline was too frequently mixed with trashy vampire/human sex scenes where "quality" writing included a vampire taking the girls virginity and then putting his blood "inside her" so she could heal faster so they could do it again; and his being so forceful a non-alive being as to "pound her" into the ground while fooling around in a cemetery right after waking for the night and crawling out of the dirt naked because you know, the clothes would only get dirty if he wore them while sleeping (which is actually written in the story!), left me literally rolling my eyes and wondering if I was reading a story written by a high school girl who had a big English assignment due and too many posters of Twilight in her room.If you are looking for a good mystery that won't insult your intelligence, try Charlaine Harris' other series, the Aurora Teagarden mysteries which begins with book titled "Real Murders". Actually, that book is so much better than the Sookie Stackhouse book, it's really hard to imagine they are even written by the same author. There's also Mary Higgins Clark/You Belong to Me, and of course the best mystery writer of all time and one of her best stories, Agatha's Christie/And Then There Were None.
2	1282694400	I wanted to like these books. I'm honestly sorry I didn't. The HBO series is enjoyable and I love a good paranormal series, but these books were just dreadful.I found myself zoning out while trying to read it, skipping pages, and putting it down for days at a time. I tried, I really did. I made it all the way to the forth in the series before I just gave up.So why did these books fall so short? The writing is second rate, it felt as though a 15 year old wrote them. The writing is choppy. The characters are underdeveloped.I'm amazed these books got published, I'm even more blown away that these books were the inspiration behind True Blood on HBO. Even the show can be corny at times which worried me about the books and is why it took me so long to pick them up. Yet, the books are not half as funny or sexy as the series. The characters are not comparable either. The only two characters that seemed at all like the show's are Sookie and Bill. Other then that there were not a whole lot of similarities.I wouldn't recommend these books to anyone I know. Unless they were on a ninth grade reading level.
5	1282521600	Got this book because I started watching true blood and I really enjoyed the show so I figured might as well read the books too.  Well after reading this book, I was hooked.  I'm a huge mysteries fan so these books speak to me.  Love the characters in this book, how they are and just everything.  The series is a much more mature look at vampires compared to stupid teenage crap that they have for all the other young adult books now.  These are real and good and wonderfully written.  Good for the author for writing a book that us adults will want to read.
5	1282089600	Sookie Stackhouse is a mind reading waitress living in Bon Temps, LA.  Things are quiet in the small town until the vampire shows up.  Not only is he handsome, but his mind is a blank - at least to Sookie.  This is a great relief to Sookie who has spent her entire life trying to block out the thoughts of others.  He's the one person she can't "hear."Unfortunately, not everyone is as happy as Sookie is to the see the vampire.  Vampires have only recently entered society explaining their condition as a "virus" and surviving on synthetic blood and vampire groupies.  Many humans still regard them with caution.  To complicate matters young women known as "fang bangers" start turning up dead.  When Sookie's brother is suspected of the crimes and then her beloved grandmother is murdered, Sookie must solve the mystery in order to clear her brother, protect her new vampire friend Bill and get justice for her grandmother.This is a wonderful vampire story for adults. There's mystery, romance and sex (caution: while the book is not as graphic as the HBO show  True Blood, which is based on this series, there is still some mature content.  Young middle school girls enthralled with the Twilight series should look elsewhere for their next vampire read.)  Sookie is a breath of fresh air.  She's a strong character (no dumb blonde here) who is not afraid to do what is needed to protect those she loves.  Bill, the handsome, brooding vampire provides the love interest.  Sookie's boss, the mysterious Sam also adds a little spice.  This series has a lot to offer: the supernatural, the mysterious and romance.  What more could you ask for?  Can't wait to read the other books in the series.
4	1281916800	A friend has the entire series of Sookie Stackhouse books except the 1st one ~ so I bought the 1st book and will borrow hers to finish reading the series!!!! Of course I'll give her this one to complete her set...I rec'd the book a lot faster than anticipated and it was in GREAT condition for a used book!!!ThanxSheila
5	1281571200	I would say it's Twilight for grown-ups but that would almost be an insult. While there is a girl with a special gift caught between a vampire and a shapeshifter in small town USA, that's pretty much where the likeness ends.Charlaine Stackhouse is not simply talented. She has a rare gift. I turned to the novels after a friend suggested I watch the television series...which offended my delicate sensibilities to the extreme. The characters and scenery are rich and the plot well conceived. Anytime I had to put the novel down to tend to daily life it made me grumpy.But I have to say...I'm on Team Sam. I know everyone else is probably on Team Bill, but I like Sam.  Maybe I'm prejudiced against vampires, brooding vampires because I am also on Team Jacob!
2	1281225600	I am happy this book was written, as I love the HBO show. It's a great story, and one that was perfect to expand into a high quality show like True Blood.  However, on its own, the book was only mildly interesting. It has a little humor, it has a variety of characters, it has some exciting parts. But overall, I was not impressed and only read it through to see if I felt differently about book Bill and show Bill.  I have read the first three books so far and might skim the fourth, but I don't think I can make it much further than that. They are just a little too... simple. She doesn't take any of the qualities I listed far enough to make it really good reading.However, I am just so thankful to Charlaine Harris for writing the series, and for allowing such freedom to Alan Ball to take her stories to the next level. She deserves her success!
5	1281052800	These books are great.  I stay up late into the night to finish them.  And am never disappointed.
4	1280966400	True Blood is one of my favorite shows on television. I love the violence, the romance, the characters. I love it all, but I was still hesitant to jump on another vampire bandwagon. All I can say is that I should have jumped aboard sooner.The plot of Dead Until Dark begins exactly the way the show does, and the fun of it grabs you from the start.  Sookie, the telepathic waitress, meets Vampire Bill, and she is instantly drawn to him. Lots of tragedy ensue with a killer on the lose in Bon Temps, LA. No one knows who the killer is, but Sookie knows that he is after her.I love Sookie because she stands up for herself (unlike another lover of vamps who will remain nameless), and this aspect really comes out in the book. Sookie, and all the characters, are incredibly likable. You root for them from the beginning, and I can't wait to start on the second book in the series.That being said, the audio version of the novel had some pros and cons. I thought the narrator did a wonderful job as the voice of Sookie,  but her reading of the male characters was a little comical. All of the male voices sounded pretty similar, and Sam in particular came out just like the "man" voice I use to imitate my husband. I know you can't hear it over the internet, but let's just say it's not good, and people laugh at me.Overall, Dead Until Dark was great, and I am a little mad that you guys didn't tell me to pick up this book sooner.
3	1280793600	Sick of Edward Cullen whining about how he's such a monster, who can't drink human blood and can't have sex? Read this. It's a vampire romance for grown-ups.
3	1280707200	I have been wanting to read this book ever since I finished the Twilight series. Unfortunately, this book wasn't as good as I expected! It is awful in comparison to Twilight in my opinion (but then again I absolutely LOVED Twilight so...)In this book Vampires live among the humans...they drink synthetic blood that is bottled (like wine) just for them and they sell it at all the local bars. While this is a neat concept...isn't that what makes vampires intriging in the first place? The fact that you don't really know if they exist. Also, the characters aren't really that likable. I like Sookie ok, but she even got on my nerves some. Bill (the vampire) is annoying and very selfish and Sam is creepy to me. The fact that Bill wasn't there when Sookie needed him the most really struck a nerve with me! The relationship between Bill and Sookie isn't really that good. It seems to me like they just want to have sex with each other and beyond that...nothing.All in all the book was ok...I really liked some parts of it and then disliked others. I think I was expecting more because of all the hype. I am planning on reading the next book because sometimes the books get better in the series. If the second book runs par with this one I may just watch a few episodes of True Blood and see if I like that better.
5	1280707200	awsome book love it ...... the shape it was supposed to be in and everything thanx
4	1280534400	Dead Until Dark by Charlaine HarrisPublishedMystery; Contemporary1st in SeriesSource: eAudiobook borrowed from librarySummary: Sookie Stackhouse can read minds. But then she meets Vampire Bill, whose mind she cannot read-a refreshing change of pace. They become romantically involved. Soon afterward though, a streak of murders is committed on women who have been with vampires. Can Sookie protect herself and find out the murderer?Thoughts: I started watching True Blood shortly before the third season debuted. I watched the first season in three days and then started the second and I will watch the third as soon as I finish the second. I was intrigued although I am still not a lover of vampires nor did I care for the language of the show although the sex and violence also seem a bit gratuitous. I wanted to give the books a chance and I was excited to find out that they were a bit lighter than the series. Of course they are very popular so I was excited to see that I could listen to an audiobook instead of waiting for months until my library had a copy come in. I don't usually listen to audiobooks but I thought I would give this one a chance.I don't think that this is a form I like. I get distracted easily and while I want to read the whole series I think I will have to reread this one because while I caught the major plot points, I missed the little details that make a book. I also stubbornly kept trying to read blogs and even sometimes write posts while listening which meant that I missed what was going on. If you are planning on listening to any audiobooks, do not also plan on reading!Differences from show: There are many. I prefer the show's backstory for the murderer to the books. I also prefer Jason in the show-he is funnier and Ryan Kwanten is very good-looking. I preferred the book's lighter tone and its lack of swearing, violence, and explicit sex scenes (although there is still some of all of those). I definitely prefer Lafayette in the show but I'm glad they added Tara to help expand the show even though she's not my favorite character (For the record, my favorite character is currently Sarah Newlin although I'm pretty sure she's going to die by the end of season 2).Voice: While I appreciated the different voices used, which helped me distinguish between characters, I'm not a fan of the speaker. I guess I would prefer Anna Paquin to read it because she is forever my Sookie.Overall: 3.5/5. Largely for the format; I will try to read this as an actual book and I bet it will get a better rating then.
3	1280448000	I tried this book after watching the series, and, although I realize the books came first, this book is so boring, I could barely finish it.  All of the exciting things that happen in the television series are told "to" the heroine, which means they are also "told" to us, the readers (rather than shown as they are unfolding)-- if at all, as she is the one narrating the book. How excrutiatingly bland!  There is more description of Sookie relaxing, changing clothes, tanning and taking showers than of the meat of the story.Also, this book is pretty poorly written.  I got tired of reading segments that read like this:  "Blah, blah, blah," Bill said, gently.  "Blah blah blah," Sookie said, angrily.  "Blah blah blah,"  Bill said, quietly.  I wanted to throw the book across the room and say, "STOP PUTTING AN ADVERB AFTER EVERY PIECE OF DIALOGUE!"Overall, it was a very creative idea, but the book just doesn't do it justice.  Thank God a television show was made based on them, or I never would have come to enjoy the story at all.
5	1280102400	There are plenty of reviews on here already talking about the great writing and imaginitive story lines that make up the sookie stackhouse novels... but what i would like to add is that I'm not an avid reader - I mostly read chick-lit (things like devil wears prada, in her shoes, not fabio-esque romance novels).But these books have taken me into my local bookstore more than i would like to admit to get each of the books in the series.I ordered the first book from amazon.com and I wish i had just ordered them all at once because i didn't have the patience to wait for shipping of the next ones after i finished this book - i went to my local bookstore and purchased all of the rest of the novels and read them in an average of 1-2 days each.I'm not a huge vampire fan, but I love the mysterious world of "other" creatures that charlaine harris has created and weaved together so intricately.fantastic.
4	1280016000	Book was used as described but had a musty smell like it had been in a basement for years
5	1280016000	The book arrived two days before it was supposed to and it was in pretty good shape! I will defiantly order from them again!
5	1279929600	This series is amazing! Just when you think you know whats going to happen ms harris throughs u for a loop! Im so happy i bought the whole series at one time so i didnt have to wait to read the next book!
2	1279929600	I have long ago stopped looking for a writer in books like these. Maybe I'm yet to be surprised but up to this day, in genre writing, rarely have I found someone whose writing wasn't just an upgraded version of some high-school students prose. Mainly, it's simplistic, straight-forward, structure dependant and oh-so-predictable. Combine that with simple narration, undeveloped characters, lack of (or very mundane one) understanding of human emotions, and you have majority of genre described to you in few simple sentences. Yet, for those few to which this description doesn't apply, fantasy genre still remains something to keep your eye on. Good, and I mean really good fantasy, surpasses conventional literature on so many levels. Sadly, Charlaine Harris and first book about Sookie Stackhouse doesn't belong into this category. It is a rare event for a TV-show based on a certain piece of work to surpass the original, but in the case on Ms Harris novel and HBO series, this has happened. Alan Ball, creator of the TV-series managed to put some life into cardboard-like characters of Harris own imagination. Sookie herself remained much the same, and whether you like her as a hero is a question that only you can answer. But, since this isn't a review of the series, I should concern myself with the book, and despite all that I have said, book isn't entirely bad. Sure it's no masterpiece of any kind, but it has its moments.One of these moments is usage of vampires. Anything is better than sun-shinning, emo, twilightian creatures, and rough almost animal-like behavior of Harris's vampires strike the point precisely. Sure, it's nothing new or out of ordinary, but it has a nice ring to it. To further develop the plot, let us say that vampires aren't really the point here. Sure, there's rough sex (and as I understand there will be much more of it in following books of the series), sheer power and everything, but main point of difference doesn't lie on the natural/supernatural plane. Sookie Stackhouse functions as a staple for strong women, and this incarnation of that staple proves to be not-too-bright, not-that-smart, uneducated and rather conservative character which has its good sides (I don't know, like being brave, loyal, passionate and stuff like that). Now, if Ms Harris was some kind of a writer, the following question could have been answered in much more satisfying manner. Question that arises is - what happens when our main staple meets another staple whose difference lies not in the way he looks or where he comes from, but in the fact that his ideology, his behavior and his rationality are totally alien to the first staple? In other words, Sookie and Vampire Bill are worlds apart. Bill is progressive, radical intellectual who views the world on a more complex level than Sookie does. Sookie...is not. Who will be changed in this interaction, and what will be the reason of these changes, are the kind of questions that I would like to be answered here. Author, sadly, had another plans with this setting.What Harris did is yet another semi-pornographic, action-packed, hero-centered piece of work whose main goal is to provide some fun to its readers. When you consider the fan-base that has been in existence for a while it's obvious that it does the job, at least to some extent. For myself, I find it quite straightforward, without much of anything that would occupy my attention for a longer period. Couldn't care less about characters, and honestly, wasn't looking forward to the end of the first story-line. Maybe it becomes better throughout the series. So, at least where first book is concerned, you should do well to tune in the HBO show - Alain Ball deals with entire premise so much better.
4	1279756800	A guilty pleasure of mine is HBO's _True Blood_.  This necessitated a reading of the books that the HBO series is loosely based upon.  _Dead Until Dark_ isn't high literature, nor does it aspire to be.  Taken at face value, then, I was pleasantly suprised.  The premise is a unique twist on an old sotry: synthetic human blood has been developed, allowing vampires to "come out of the coffin" and into mainstream life.  In rural northern Louisaina, a young barmaid, Sookie Stackhouse (the name took a little getting used to) enters into a relationship with a vampire, Bill Compton, who has ties to the region: he lived there 150 years ago before he became undead.  The relationship and reaction of the community to it are further strained with a series of murders of young women occur, the implication being that they were the vicitms of vampires.The writing is straighforward and the storyline isn't terribly complicated.  The characters are not particularly three-dimensional, yet still I enjoyed reading it.  The acceptance (or rejection) of vampires in the midst of the rural, conservative South was a thin veil to real issues being faced right now: the acceptance (or rejection) of homosexual marriage, or of race, or of any other social issue.  That individuals are forced to face their assumptions, fears and prejudices around this mythical issue and the implication that we do likewise with real issues resonated with me.  Good science fiction does this, and Harris suggests these issues through the situations her characters find themselves in.  I wish she had been a little more forceful in making this point in her writing (as HBO is in highlighting and underscoring these issues in its series), but  perhaps I ask too much of my stories with this expectation.Still, for a light summer read, (and maybe guilty pleasure), this book - and I assume the series -  would be great.
4	1279670400	There may be nothing I can say to get you to hit buy now or make you get in your car at this very moment and go to the book store, but you should. I picked up this book on a whim on my lunch break. I had never heard of the book series or the television show. It was the best decision I have ever made (book wise). You instantly care about sookie, she is head strong, girly and charming. I must say If you are watching the show and thinking about reading the series they are different and amazing in their own rights. The books tend to be more serious and deadly, while the show is a little more comical. I have lent these books to many people and have never heard anything back but how in love with the series they are. I know that every book may not be everyones ideal read but the 344 five star reviews infront of mine speak for themselves
4	1279670400	Enjoyed this as the books are toned down and the humor flows more through the words. There is violence but the sex is  not explicit. I would rate it a pg13. Not for children but very entertaining for adults. Plan to read the next one.
4	1279411200	Sure, I recommended these books to my sister when she started reading twilight as more 'legitimate' and popular vampire novels. I myself never took the time to read this kind of stuff, since I prefer traditional high fantasy. I did however rent me a copy of Tru Blood, and having become addicted to that series, I found myself insisting to read this series of books. So far, I haven't been disappointed.Dead Until Dark has a lot of similarities to the Twilight series, and that is probably because the Twilight series seems to be based in part on this older series. This fact has escaped attention since the overwhelming popularity of Twilight has made vampire romances popular long after this series was written. Since Tru Blood has made this series more popular than ever, people will start accusing Charlaine Harris of copying Stephanie Meyer, when most likely, the reverse is true. Really, Twilight and Tru Blood owe each other a lot and the cycle seems to just keep on giving...***Spoiler Alert***Basically, the premise of Dead Until Dark is the story of a world where vampires have 'come out of the coffin.' This premise makes this series fairly unique. No longer do vampires exist in the periphery of reality, but they are an everyday accepted kind of people. Sookie Stackhouse, our blond buxom heroine, is not just your everyday person either, but a waitress with the nerve wracking disability of being a telepath. The world of the mundane small northern Louisiana town of Bon Temps gets energized when Sookie and Bill the vampire become the first supernatural couple to be formed in this backwater. Not only that, but brutal strangulations start popping up all over this town where nothing ever happens, well, until Bill the vampire showed up. What is happening in Bon Temps? Are vampires behind the killings? Is Sookie safe dating a dead man? What is the strange secret of Sookie's boss Sam?Well, the Twilight similarities primarily involve mind reading, and love triangles. In these books, vampires glow (SM vampires sparkle) and can't have their mind read (Edward couldn't read Bella's mind). Sookie is a mind reader (Edward for SM) and has a bit of a love triangle between Vampire Bill and her boss who turns into a dog (Jacob vs. Edward). There are a lot of other minor fine points, but these are fairly fundamental to SM's books, and were originally described here.While Charlaine Harris is really not a super talented writer, she does have a knack for conflict which is good, and she is good at describing the human condition. She is also bold in her approach in writing a novel which truly defies categorization by combing elements of romance, horror, fantasy, and detective/crime all into a whole series of books.These books are extremely interesting, and if they were well written, they would be five star books. The quality of the writing is good, not great, and therefore four stars, mainly for the interesting premise and plot. This book is one of the best written of the series, really, but it still leaves to be desired.Recommended.
3	1279065600	DEAD UNTIL DARK provides a compelling read with a world and plot that readers do not need to struggle to believe unlike many supernatural stories. Unique and enchanting with a strong sense of mystery allows the reader to fully sink their fangs into this addicting book. The narration is odd at first; Sookie seems to be too perfect in the beginning, but her true character is fetching as she is a strong woman who takes initiative. Before this book and before the TV Series I'll admit that I did not care for southerners. I've been mistaken, southern flair is awesome. This book is awesome. I look forward to the rest of this series.
5	1279065600	Dead until dark is the story of a barmaid named Sookie who has the ability to read minds. Sookie soon finds herself in love with a vampire named Bill who recently moves to the town. In this world the vampires have recently revealed themselves to the human world and have became a part of mainstream society.It this book there is a serial killer killing women who have been involved with vampires. Of course there are even more surprises when one of the most closer people to Sookie turns out to be a shape shifter. You will have to find out for yourself but it a great series to get into.Darcy Kath, Author Of Tyson Stone And The Legend Of All Legends
5	1279065600	I really needed this one book, 1) It's the beginning. 2) It completed my collection. 3) It told the back story of all the characters, that wasn't in the later novels. These stories were AWESOME! Need more! More! More! :-)
4	1278979200	Published in 2001, and now a series on HBO entitled "True Blood," "Dead Until Dark" starts off with a bang, which keeps going and going until the last word. Stookie Stackhouse, a cocktail waitress with telepathic abilities, had been awaiting the moment a vampire would arrive in the bar she waitressed at. When Bill finally walked in, he was just as Sookie would have imagined him to be, and more: gorgeous. When he quickly mingles with the wrong sort of people, and ends up dying in the parking lot, Sookie rescues him and they quickly fall in love. Sookie is introduced to a new crowd, including other vampires Eric, Pam, and a lot more (none of which she is too pleased to be with). Meanwhile back in Bon Temps, a series of murders start to occur, and Sookie notices something incredibly strange and scary: All victims of the seriel killer have been in some way related to her. Whether they be friends, family, or even companions, all are in danger, and none of them know it, not even Sookie.My Likes and Dislikes:Jason, and later Sookie, seem to be somewhat of the...slutty type? =P Jason's constant girlfriends aggravated me, and I honestly don't even know why.I definitely preferred Sam over Bill. He seemed so sweet and really looked after and cared for Sookie. (Not saying Bill didn't, but I still like Sam better.) And I kind of hate the fact that Sam is a shape-shifter. I was looking forward to Sookie dating a human.I really liked Gran, and hated to see her die, along with Sookie's cat, Tina. Both murders were pretty graphic, and I can't imagine how their brought about in the television show.I didn't really care for Arlene, and didn't really think she was much of a friend to Sookie. I wouldn't have felt bad if she was one of the girls to go, instead of Maudette and Dawn.
5	1278979200	It is always a delight to discover a wonderful new series, and Charlene Harris' Sookie Stackhouse books definitely fall into this category. She herself is fun to be with, as are those around her. Strange creatures abound, wackiness ensues, and fun is had by all, especially the reader.
2	1278892800	Okay, so I've picked up those Sookie Stackhouse books that the HBO series True Blood was based on, and I have to admit they are "okay" reads but some things are BUGGING me!Why can't a mystery writer have a heroine that is liberated? Or smart, or strong. At least when it comes to men?Don't read these books unless you want camp up the wazoo!SPOILER ALERT!First off, she makes the heroine Sookie some sort of dumb cocktail waitress who has never been out of LA,(I mean come on, she has Sookie talk about how an airplane flies!) dumps her in a small town, where "everything" supernatural seems to happen, (funny, it's the deep South, duh), and then she has her meet up with 4, count 'em, 4 dudes who are ALL supernatural and that she "loves."Bill is the first love, the vampire. Okay.....He's unfaithful.Oooohhh....Sookie dosen't like that...he's mighty bad. But....oooooo....she "loves" him still?Eric is the sultry "bad" vampire who got memory loss so when Sookie breaks up with Bill....(because Bill didn't "TAKE CARE" of her financial needs??? WTF????).......She sleeps with Eric in the 3rd book....and then when the spell is reversed...doesn't tell him...AWKWARD!Alcide is the WereWolf guy....who she "likes" but maybe wants to take things further????Sam is her boss at the Bar where she works...and he's a ShapeShifter who turns into a dog every full moon...........Ok, told you it was major CAMP!.......But......she can't have a relationship with her "boss" cause it's "not right"Okay, so we have this silly female character who wants to be "cherished" and "taken care of," all her "needs," but whenever one of these above mentioned dudes tries to...oh god, thats WRONG! I'm gonna cry and walk out! And get pissed off since I'm so "liberated," and I don't need anyone to help me! I gotta make more cash so I can re-gravel my driveway! I was hurt mighty bad.Sookie is crying all the time, gets beaten up all the time, (she should be dead by now with all those major life-threatening injuries) so she has to drink vampire blood so she won't die, and is ambiguous about receiving "gifts" from her male admirers.For crying out LOUD! Then she lets them "braid her hair" and "stroke her hair," and cheek and whisper inanne lovey-dovey words to her.This is really too much, and I don' know why these books are so popular.
4	1278806400	So when I first picked this book up and the next one in the series, I was sort of wishy washy about them. And this is way long ago,way before True Blood on HBO.Then I kept reading reviews on how wonderful the series was so I thought I'd try the third book.WOW. The third book is still my most favorite in the series. This is definitely my favorite urban fantasy series.It's so well thought out and definitely worth the read.So pick this book up and the next one and prepare to be blown away by the third book. Loved it!~H.P. Mallory, urban fantasy and paranormal romance authorFire Burn and Cauldron BubbleTo Kill A Warlock
3	1278720000	Really enjoyable read, except having seen the TV series, I can't help but picture all the characters and places and the storyline itself as I've seen them on TV.  Kinda spoils it as a reading experience for me.  The book was good but not as riveting for me as the Anne Rice vampire books or even Bram Stoker's classic, so I've given this one only 3 stars, although I'd like to keep reading the series.The really big downer for me though is that after reading the Kindle edition, I tried to purchase the next book in the series for Kindle, and low and behold, it is not available to Australians!  In fact, every Sookie Stackhouse novel can be bought by Australians in Kindle format -except-Living Dead In Dallas.  Why?  Does anyone actually have a logical reason?  And no, Aussies can't buy any "boxed" set of Sookie Stackhouse novels for Kindle either.  So on principle,  I've stopped buying these books until this absurd situation is rectified.
5	1277596800	This is the first in the 'Southern Vampire' series that is the basis for the HBO series TRUE BLOOD.The series centers on Sookie Stackhouse, a 'livinwaitress in a small town bar in northern Louisiana.  Four years before it had been publicly revealed that vampires really did exist and had been 'living; among'  humans for years.,  When one walked into the bar where Sookie worked she was intrigued for reasons far beyond the novelty the newcomer presented.  Sookie was telepathic and was delighted that she could not hear the vampire's thoughts.  That the newcomer was 'tall, dark and handsome' didn't hurt either and when it became quite apparent that the vampire, Bill Compston was quite taken with her as well Sookie thought her live had just taken a definite upturn.  Little did she realize that meeting Bill would bring all sorts of changes into her life and to those around her or that not all of the changes would be for the better.This is a delightful series.  Sookie is charmingly sassy and the cast of characters, both human and nonhuman that populate Bon Temps are imaginative.  And the action in sleepy little Bon Temps does not ever seem to stop.  It seems that Sookie just gets out of one dire situation and then is plunged into another.  The story is sure to keep the reader turning pages far into the night.The first episodes of HBO'S TRUE BLOOD are contained in this book with some minor alterations - one character in the tv series is missing from the book, another minor character in the book is a major one on the tv series.  Still fans of the tv series should enjoy the book and vice versa, particularly since there are some strong hints about Sookie's background that will surely play a major part in the story somewhere down the line.These novels, like the tv series, are meant for mature audiences.  There are numerous and graphic references to sexual activity and violence.
1	1277337600	I was really excited to start this series since I love the TV show and am a huge fan of vampire novels. However, I was thoroughly disappointed so much so that I refused to finish the book. I know some of the things I am going to say may have already been touched upon, but I just want to back up what others have written about it.First, the book sounds like it is written by one of my high school students. The sentences are simple, descriptions are bland...there is no depth whatsoever. The characters are very flat and uninteresting. I even found the vampires boring, which is a first. (I do have to agree with others that because of these flaws it made for a better TV show because they could really run with it and develop the series)Second, Harris spends too much time on unimportant details. I agree with another reviewer who said that she spends too much effort on describing what the characters look like. An author does need to give the reader a sense of what the characters look like, but leave some things to the imagination!! One example of Harris' lengthy descriptions happened when Sookie came home from work. She spent an entire page on what was in her dresser and how she got ready for bed ( she didn't have time to take a shower, but washed her face and slapped on some moisturizer...something to that extent)...WHO CARES?!?! It was not pertinent to the story line and didn't help her character description at all.Finally, some of the events were unbelievable. I know this is fiction and a sci-fi, but the ordinary things which help contrast the sci-fi part of the story were unrealistic. Example- when her brother comes over for lunch casually brings up that a girl Sookie knew died. 1) In a small town as described in the story, that would be the FIRST thing that would come up (believe me, I come from a small town). 2) There was little emotion tied to the reaction of her death. 3) They talked about it for less than a minute. They would have been talking about it for at least the entire lunch to make it more realistic.As I stated before, I was very disappointed in this book and saddened I had spent the money on this book. I rarely like TV/movies over books, but this book changed my mind.
4	1276992000	I'm not sure what I was expecting when I started reading this book, but it wasn't what I expected.  Nonetheless I enjoyed it.I think I was looking for a story that would fulfill my "Twilight" addiction, and this is not exactly it but it was entertaining just the same.  This is NOT a book I would allow my teenagers to read however, because of explicitly-detailed sexual situations and vulgar language.It's difficult not to like the main character, Sookie Stackhouse, immediately.  She is smart and spunky, with a southern belle charm that takes a backseat when necessary.  The murder mystery was well done; I really didn't know "whodunit" until she revealed it at the end, I was completely on the wrong trail. Her vampire lover is no Edward Cullen (he doesn't have the old-fashioned morals or quite the consideration for Sookie as Edward always does for Bella), but he's attractive enough.I have started reading Book 2 and look forward to discovering more character development, as the author has set the stage for some, er, interesting things to come.
3	1276819200	This book series kept being recommended to me by various people and book sources. I am an avid reader, but I couldn't get past the cheesy covers of the books. Then someone recommended that I watch True Blood. When I discovered that the TV show was based on the books, I decided I should read the books first. That being said, I decided not to judge the book by it's cover and got Dead Until Dark. I read it in 3 or 4 hours. I found that I enjoyed the story - enough to read the rest of the series. I found several editing issues and that can be irritating to me especially since it was not a first printing of the books. There are also several inconsitancies to the storyline throughout the series. The author said that she writes by the seat of her pants and sometimes it is obvious. I also feel that some of the main storylines throughout the series seem a little forced. That being said, it was still an enjoyable, quick read and I would recommend it to someone who was interested in the paranormal romance genre.
4	1276732800	Whether you hate this book or love it, you can't deny that it is an easy read that entices the reader to turn the page, even when they need to sleep or need to stop :) I personally liked it even though it was a little too descriptive. Overall, it passes the time in a fairly enjoyable way.
4	1276646400	Caught "True Blood" on TV and so decided to read the books on which the series is based. I wished now that I had read the books first because I can't help but picture the actors when their written counterparts are first mentioned.Found this first one very entertaining. The true test will be if I tire of the characters as the series progresses.UPDATE: I've now made it through the entire series and while some volumes are better than others, overall, it's a fun, wryly written, lighthearted little series. Not Pulitzer Prize-winning literature, but not much is.
4	1276473600	Charlaine does it again! I can hardly contain myself while I wait for the next book.
5	1276214400	This is the first book I've read by Charlain and the Sookie series and I completely enjoyed this book!  I was sneaking in every moment I could at work and home to finish this book.  I couldn't wait to see what happened next.  It had a lot of twist and turns and interesting characters.  I can't wait to read the series!
2	1276041600	While I am a fan of "True Blood", I was not a fan of Harris' written work, which is quite rare, becasue I usually go the opposite way when it comes to books and their film forms. This is perhaps the first book I can say I actually like the series better than the book. But I digress.I think Harris' concept is fantastic. She has a dynamic cast of characters, all with their own quirks and issues. Each character is colorful and paints a vivid picture. Towards the middle and end of the book, however, I lose my connection with the characters. I feel as though too much is going on at once and it loses the reader's interest and muddles the time line of events. I'm not a particular fan of her style of writing - but that's just a personal opinion.While the story line is an intriguing one, I feel Harris loses her grip on her characters halfway through the story and leaves the reader confused and unhappy at the end.The Last Saint
3	1275782400	This series does not appear to be marketed to teens, but I decided to read this book because I saw a lot of my 7th and 8th grade students reading books from the series.  This story was very interesting.  However, I do want to caution parents: 1) There is a lot of sex in this book - people talking and joking about it, vampires and people masturbating in the open, multiple detailed love scenes between the main vampire and human character, and alternate sexual relationships, 2) there is also cursing, and 3) there are also some pretty gruesome murders.  I can only imagine that some of my students were reading this series because their parents didn't know these elements are in the story.  So I hope this helps parents make a well-informed decision concerning the appropriateness of this series for their child.
5	1275609600	When I first got my kindle I asked all my friends to recommend a book, and one recommended this one.  I found the tale very interesting...a "disabled" telepathic barmaid, her shape-shifer boss, her wise grandmother, her "slick" brother, and "Vampire Bill" her lover.  The mystery is who is killing the women of Bon Temps.  The common thread is they all have involvement with vampire, the newest minority since they "climbed out of their coffins".  Sookie is a very interesting character who you learn about piece by piece, but the biggest thing about her is that she thinks she has nothing to add to life.  I enjoyed watching her leave behind her sheltered existence and join others, even if they are mainly supernatural.  The mystery is solved by Sookie's telepathic abilities, and so she feels her ability is more of a help than a hinder.****SPOILER*****I felt sad for Sookie when she lost her Grandmother and nobody but Bill seemed to help her, even her brother seemed to be in it for what he got out of it.  Bill seemed to be a loving, caring creature who like Sookie had been treated badly by others.  Eric in this one is a bit of a bad guy as he throws his weight around with Sookie and Bill to "blackmail" them in to doing what he wants and getting them to do his dirty work.In all aspects this is an excellent book appealing to mystery lovers, vampire lovers, and the romantic lovers--something for everyone???--and I'm glad I have it in my library.
4	1275177600	I write this book review with no preconceived notion brought on by the show True Blood. I refused to watch that show until I read the books. I have just finished the first one.Sookie Stackhouse is your typical "disabled" waitress in a small town bar in Northern Louisiana. Her disability is a far from common one; she's telepathic.She was raised with her brother, Jason, by her aging grandmother after her parents died when she was young. While her older brother has moved out of the house a while ago, Sookie still lives with her grandmother.Enter the Vampire Bill.When vampires were allowed "out of the coffin" a few years back to be legally recognized citizens, they've been received with curiosity, romanticism, and sometimes all out hatred; but Sookie couldn't wait to meet one.When she met Bill, she was waitressing at Merlotte's, the local pub and food stop in Bon Temps. She was taken with him, but she was "Crazy Sookie" after all, and Sookie doesn't date. Hearing other people's thoughts at a constant rate kills that idea.When Bill got up and left with the "Rats", a local couple nicknamed that by Sookie due to their white trash status and last name, Sookie immediately knew they were up to no good. When she followed them out into the parking lot, they were draining him for his prized vampire blood, which has become the new "it" drug.Sookie managed to get Bill away from them, and herself into a lot of mess.Meanwhile; there is a serial killer in Bon Temps murdering young women, and the local detective has his sights on her older brother to fill the prison cell for it.I can't get into all the different characters and aspects of this book so now it's down to my final thoughts. Since I had not seen the show, I really genuinely loved this book. There were so many interesting characters and it really got into the vampire society aspect. Unlike books like "Twilight", it isn't some sob story teen emo G rated romance but there isn't so much sex in it, as say Laurell K Hamilton, where you just groan and skip the five chapters it takes to complete one love scene. That is important to me. Romance scenes should only be included into a book when it benefits the story, not as a cover up for the writer's lack of creativity to spin an actual storyline. This book delivers in this department. Harris is an excellent storyteller, and she did wonderfully by weaving in the whole Southern mentality you'd expect from a story based in Louisiana.
4	1274572800	this book had many great ideas and a good mystery/paranormal plot!*SPOILER ALERT*Sookie Stackhouse is a barmaid in a small town in Louisiana. She also just happens to hear peoples thoughts, which pretty much destroyed her love life. Then one day, a vampire walks into the bar. Vampires have recently "come out" insisting they are tired of hiding and wish to be accepted into society. Anyhow, Sookie realizes that this vampire could be her perfect man. Since he is technically dead, Sookie can't hear his thoughts, which is a huge releif. That night, she saves him from Drainers, people who drain vampire blood and sell it on the black market. and what does he do after she risked her neck for him and basically saved his life??? Says a stiff, ungrateful thank you and tries to seduce her! Seriously, jerk alert! Plus, he has HUMONGOUS sideburns (disgusting!) and his name is Bill. Come on, Bill?!?!?! what sort of name is that? Anyhow, he does repay the favor later by saving her life from the seriously ticked drainers. As their relationship progresses, strange things are happening in town. Women are being murdered violently. and not just any women, but ones who had a sexual relationship with a vampire at one point or another. Which, as Bill and Sookie start a romantic relationship, includes Sookie on the target list. Sookies not the only one in trouble though, her brother Jason, who has more than his share of good looks and charm, is the prime suspect for the murders, since he slept with every women killed (except his grandmother.....i hope) Anyhow, Sookie is determined to find the murderer to clear Jason's name, but she doesn't realize that's its the last person anyone suspected and he still wants her dead.I thought the plot was very good in this book, there were a few loose ends but most are tied off in the rest of the series ;)The characters were likable and realistic and i loved that Sookie was blonde.Being a blonde from CA myself, i am sick and tired of the "dark-haired heroine beating the popular, jealous blonde and stealing her hot boyfriend who realizes how shallow she is and how nice the dark-haired girl is" theme.So a big personal thumbs up for that! I know many readers may feel differently but just for the record, i really dont like Bill. Hes old-fashioned (disapproves of Sookie's shorter dresses) possessive, moody, temperamental, and ABUSIVE!!! He sort of rapes her at one point in the book and in the sequel as well. In CLUB DEAD, he actually does rape her and attempts to kill her. He just seems depressed or angry for the majority of the book. He almost reminds me of Edward from the Twilight series.Now Eric, the ex-Viking vampire who owns a vamp bar near Sookie's town, is much more interesting. Hes more fun loving and mischievous than uptight Bill, plus he has a lot of power,is devastatingly attractive, and is interested in Sookie. My vote, go for him, girl!This was a fun read, with dry humor, a great new take on paranormal fiction, romance, mystery, and a promise of more! (Book 10 just came out) I would definitely suggest this book.
4	1274400000	My Summary: Sookie Stackhouse is a cocktail waitress in a small town in Louisiana -- a Town where nothing happens. Vampires have recently been made legal, and the story that is being fed to the people via the media is that vampirism is caused by a virus that makes vampires allergic to sunlight, silver and garlic.Sookie wants to meet a vampire, but once she does meet one in the form of Bill (a Civil War era vampire), bad things begin to happen to people in her small town. Working class women keep winding up dead, and the prime suspects are people very close to Sookie -- and she fears she may be the next target.My Review: I really liked this book, just as I knew that I would. A good friend has been hounding me to read it for a while, and I must say that I found the story delightfully fulfilling.Dead Until Dark took me a little while to get into. I was worried at first that I would find it impossible to get through the novel, but it was right about that time that things picked up quickly.I loved this book, so why am I only giving it three stars? I can hear readers wondering this question, and I want to be absolutely honest with you: The combination of paranormal + romance + mystery was a little bit too much. There were moments where the book was pure paranormal, or where it was paranormal romance. At other times it was all mystery. I couldn't quite settle into the groove I need to really enjoy a good cozy mystery, and the mystery distracted me from the romantic elements of the story (which were, I must say, very well done).If you enjoyed Twilight you will almost definitely enjoy Dead Until Dark. If you didn't enjoy Twilight, I still recommend this novel. You'll see why once you've read it!
2	1273276800	I had high high hopes for this book, and the series in general. BUT. To be honest, this book was just terrible. I felt that character detailed severely lacked, details of locations and events are hardly there at all. Overall, a very disappointing read. I tried getting into the second book of the series, but I just really do not like Harris' story writing. I prefer precision in my books with vivid detail so that I can map the characters and places in my mind. I found that I'd open the book, read a few pages, and put it down. There just wasn't anything to hold my attention. My personal opinion is that season one of True Blood did a much better job with Harris' story than Harris managed to do herself. I'll give it 2 stars because the story basics are good, but overall, the execution, in my mind, was terrible.
5	1272758400	I wasn't sure which book started the series, but I have to say, I am currently in book 8.  This series has hooked me, and now I have friends and relatives involved in it too.  I loved the tv series one......the books don't have as much sex, and thats a good thing.  But they are keeping me interested.  Can't wait to start book 9.
5	1270598400	Awesome! This book was one of the best I have read in awhile. Definitely a pleasure, easy read book. As far as mysteries go, it is one that kept me guessing. I had no idea who it was at the end, and it even had me a little creeped out, as I kept imagining sounds in my house as I read it. Very good! Can't wait to read the next one!
5	1269907200	This is the first book in Charlaine Harris's new series about vampires, werewolves and the like. I didnt start the series until after the 7th book was released so i got to read all of them one after another until then and they were ADDICTIVE. Every book in the series has only taken me a day to read and this first book started it all.Sookie Stackhouse lives in an old family country house that has seen better days with her grandmother, when she was only a kid her parents died leaving her brother(Jason) and her to be raised by her grandmother. When she was young she noticed she was different, she could hear the thoughts of just about anybody which made her somewhat of a freak in Bon Temps where everybody knows everybody.Now only a couple years since the world learned that there are Vampires that live(or at least walk) amongst them the world is still in shock and Bon Temps has just gotten their first vampire in town, Bill Compton. When Sookie meets Bill for the first time it's at the bar she works at, she saves him from drainers starting their complicated relationship.Theres a wide range of people in Bon Temps and the surrounding area, some people are considered FangBangers; people who follow vampires around and like to be bitten, some couldn't care less about vampires and some HATE vampires and would like to rid the world of them. Now in the small town of Bon Temps people and Vampires are dying and the fingers are being pointed to Bill. Now Sookie has to use her skill to find the real killer.This is a great beginning to the series with a diverse set of characters that entertain and keep you sucked into the story. Highly recommend this book along with the rest of the series.Ash
4	1269475200	This is the first in a series of books about Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress in a bar who can hear people's thoughts. This novel introduces us to characters and context that set the stage for other works in this series (this is the only work on Stackhouse that I have read). We learn of vampires integrating themselves (sort of) into human society.  We learn of shapeshifters living among the characters.Sookie's social life is compromised by her hearing the thoughts of those around her. Dates with men collapse as she can hear them wondering about her body, about what might happen that evening, and so on. The personal part of this story is about her coming to feel passion toward another--a vampire, Jim. She cannot easily read a vampire's thoughts (although we learn later that she can pick up some thoughts from them), and a relationship with a vampire has this positive element to it.This is also the story of murder. An awful lot of people die in this work. The Rats try to kill Sookie. Big mistake. Apparently an enraged vampire can do amazing things! People whom Sookie knows die. Who did it? Townspeople fear that vampires did it and seek revenge.Part of the story, too, is about Sookie coming to be comfortable with her power to know what others are thinking. In some ways, this is a book about self-discovery for her, just as it is something of a mystery (which doesn't work so well; we really don't get the kind of clues that lead us to develop hypotheses about who the villain might be).Thus, this is a pretty good introductory volume in a series that develops (and this series has been the basis for a cable TV series). Will I read more? It's tempting! And that probably says something about the quality of this work.
2	1269129600	I was ready to love this book.  I bought it off the recommendations read on Amazon and began reading it with great anticipation.  Unfortunately, I was sorely disappointed and actually ended up throwing the novel away when done. (I at least finished it--hoping it would be improve or have a fantastic ending)  My main problem?  It's definitely an "ADULT" novel--NC-17 rating at best if it was made into a movie due to the crude sexual and S&M scenes (plus violence, language, etc.)  Not a book I would recommend to a friend, especially those under age.  I wasn't expecting it to be "erotic" and felt it cheapened the characters and novel.  The storyline was decent but with all "adult" crud mixed in, it ruined it for me.  I don't have time in my life to read trashy novels.  I was looking for a great story line, interesting characters, etc.  I wish I had been warned on Amazon in the reviews.  Fine if other folks want to read it but I would never had purchased it if I have know it was an "adult" novel.
5	1268870400	I watched the series before reading the books and I'm so impressed with the author's writing. It's simple, fast moving and filled with gripping adventure. I ordered the entire series, can't wait to read them all!
5	1268870400	I have to confess, I am a bit late starting this series, but now that I have just finished reading this book I am HOOKED!!  I have never seen True Blood on HBO, in fact my mother gave me this author's name and I bought the first book in this series out of pure curiousity.  As someone who has tried and failed to get hooked by the Twilight saga, I was skeptical at first.  I had actually forgotten I had bought this book for about a month after I had downloaded it to my Kindle.  I am not certain when I actually started reading this book, but I don't believe it has taken me that long, probably an hour a day for about ten days.  I have already purchased the second book by Ms. Harris two days ago in anticipation of finishing this one and can't wait to start it.
5	1268784000	I was desperately looking for a series that would consume my attention as much as the Twightlight Series did and i was just as captivated.  Although totally different than Twightlight and Bella, Sookie is an awesome heorine who is strong and intriguing.  If you are looking for a series that you won't be able to put down than you'll definitely have to get the Sookie Stackhouse Series.
5	1268352000	For those of you that love "True Blood" , this is the series for you!
3	1268265600	I have just recently started watching the "True Blood" series on HBO.  I find them totally irresistable!  This series was based on this series of books.  Based they were.  I found the books to be written very elementary-like.  They lack the magnetism that the series has.  The series follows the book(s) very well but it is oh so much better.  The book is not a complete waste of time.  It will not challenge your thoughts however.  Overall an o.k. read.
4	1268179200	This is a quick read, and if you like the vampire/mystery/romance genre, then you will really enjoy this series. It's not great literature: the prose is simplistic, character development is shaky and somewhat predictable, and it's full of melodrama and a smattering of good sex scenes.It is, however, a fun read and very plot driven. If you want something to drown in for a few hours, it's a good choice. If you want something to make you think or writing you can savor, this is not your cup of tea.
1	1268179200	I apparerntly am not a fan of vampire trash.  This is too out there for me.  I prefer traditional romance novels.
4	1267920000	Almost everyone I know has read Charlaine Harris' Southern Vampire Series - or are at least familiar with True Blood, the HBO Series based on the books. For that reason I will not give a synopsis of Dead Until Dark in my review. For the select few that are not aware, Dead Until Dark is the first book in a series centering on Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress in a bar in a small town in northern Louisiana.Dead Until Dark is a quick and fun read - I devoured it literally in one sitting over the course of a single night. The story is interesting, and I loved the setting of Bon Temps, Louisiana, a charming small town trying desperately to hold on to its conventionality despite world events. The characters in Dead Until Dark are quirky and off-the-wall, in the best possible sense, and are decidedly different from their television counterparts.Dead Until Dark is a delightful mixture of horror, psychological thriller, humor, and romance, that will engage and entertain the reader from page one. The twists and turns of the plot leave you wondering "who done it," while the characters will have you laughing out loud out at the hilarious dialogue. Read Dead Until Dark and you will fall in love with Sookie Stackhouse and Bon Temps, Louisiana. I think I'll read the rest of the series over Spring Break!
5	1267920000	I picked this up on a lark - and now I am TOTALLY addicted to the series! The characters are believable (for werewolves, vampires, etc) and I really feel like i Know them. I can't wait for her next edition of the story!!
3	1266537600	So, there's the girl that can read/hear minds/thoughts who meets this vampire (who is "out of the coffin" - stop groaning, I can't make this stuff up, okay?) and falls in love and she gets into trouble and blah blah blah...The story is pretty well done. I mean, it's the same basic premise of a lot of these vampire romances out there. I'm not still not sure what the allure is (I mean, they are always described as cold and hard as marble and well, I'd much rather snuggle up to something warm, but whatever, I digress). My biggest problem with this book is that the writing starts out not so good. It feels forced, like the author was trying to hard to get her point across. I felt like it needed to be wheedled down by an editor and smoothed out. I was surprised because everyone was raving about these books and I was just a little annoyed..... and then it got better.Dang it - now I gotta read the rest of them.It's not a bad story, it's a fun book, with a few laughs (sometimes at the weird plot twists, but we're talking vampires here, people!). If you are one of the 10 people left on the planet that hasn't read it, give it a whirl.
4	1266364800	You don't go trick-or-treating and expect gourmet chocolate truffles.You don't go to McDonald's and order $50 steak.You don't go to Old Navy to find designer duds....you get my drift...A lot of people have given this book and the series bad reviews based on a lack of plot or flat characters or what-have-you.  There are some issues that kept me from giving this 5 stars (a little too much unnecessary sex, some character annoyances, etc) but for what it is it was great.  I read all 9 currently available books in about a day each, one after another.  So you can assume I found them highly enjoyable  - especially once I moved past those little issues (if you know grass is green, but the author insists it's blue, then you just have to adjust your world view for the book's world and move on and then it's not a problem, right?).  So I would totally recommend these to any adult looking for escapist fiction in an easy to read form.A few disclaimers:I wrote this after reading through book 9 and I do think it's better as a whole.I had not heard of this series before I read it.Aside from "Interview With a Vampire" this is my first foray into vampire literature.I have not seen the HBO "True Blood" series.I have never read a romance novel.I haven't been able to read a fiction novel in MONTHS and so I was hungry for almost anything.
4	1266278400	Yes, this is guilty pleasure summer reading. But if you accept that that's what it is, and that it isn't trying to be more than that, it's really great.One can't help comparing Sookie to Bella from Twilight, and Sookie certainly comes out in the lead. She's a strong, brave, and sassy heroine that I look forward to reading about, whereas Bella is just a side show for Edward. These books are truly about the female lead.
1	1265760000	One of the worst-written books I have ever read.  Though Harris' plot ideas have great potential, the superficial character development and illogical plot twists leave the reader completely disappointed.  At times, the unbearably moronic dialogue and Harris' awkward word choice will literally have you cringing.  I love a good guilty-pleasure novel as much as the next reader, but there is just too much well-written fiction out there to waste your time on this drivel.
1	1264982400	I'll always have a soft spot in my heart for vampire tales, due to my teenage crush on the vampire novels of Anne Rice. My tastes have grown more selective over the last seventeen years, and it is only on the rarest of occasions I find myself reading a mass market paperback.  If a book is popular enough to appear at Target, more than likely, I won't be reading it. Yes. I am a book snob. Alas, I found HBO's first season of True Blood, fresh and exciting, and was completely drawn into creator Alan Ball's re-working of Dead Until Dark.  I listened to his commentary on the first episode, and he spoke of the book with respect and genuine love.  I found a copy by chance at a thrift store and decided to see what the fuss was all about.  I assumed if I loved the show, I would certainly find the book even better: richer, multi-layered and textured in a way that cannot translate from novel to screen. I was dead wrong. I won't bore you, or myself, by rehashing the details of this silly little book.  I can tell you, however, it's written in a simplistic style, the characters are one dimensional, and it contains bodice ripper sex scenes. I sped through the story; it's an easy, albeit, unenjoyable read, and I can see why and how a writer for television found it ripe for reinterpretation. There is so little development of plot and character, there is plenty of room to spice things up.  If I had to read one more description of Sookie's clothing or hair, I might have ripped the book in two and thrown it across the room. Reading Dead Until Dark was an absolute waste of my time.  It has nothing new to offer the vampire genre, nor is it notable for any other quality.  It's a bubble bath book at best. One dim star.
3	1264896000	I have heard so much hype about the Sookie Stackhouse books so I went about collecting all of them and I finally got around to reading the first one.  And maybe because there was so much hype about them and my expectations were so high, but it just wasn't that spectacular to me.  Don't get me wrong--I enjoyed it.  But I didn't fall in love with it.I'm not sure how I feel about Sookie.  I didn't really like her all that much.  Maybe she's too "hard" or "tough" for me.  I don't know.  But I did like Bill, the vampire, and Sam the bar owner.The plot definitely got me though.  Often, I can peg who the killer is but not in this book.  I had several guesses, but none of them were correct.  I love books like that!I look forward to reading Living Dead in Dallas next!
5	1264723200	after watching the first season of true blood, i figured i would read the book that started it all. charlaine harris really draws you in to this tale and doesnt let you go.
3	1264636800	Dead Until Dark (Sookie Stackhouse, Book 1)is the debut novel of the series from whichTrue Blood: The Complete First Season (HBO Series)was born. I picked up a box set of the series as a gift for my wife, though we're both fans of the show. There is a major difference in the tone of the show and the book. The show is clearly for adult audiences and wildly inappropriate for a younger audience. The books were tailor-made for the 12-14 set that has outgrown Hannah Montana.Both are about Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress and (sometimes) vampire lover in a small town two hours from New Orleans. But where the series is plot-driven with strong messages of tolerance for gays and other minorities,Dead Until Dark (Sookie Stackhouse, Book 1)is at heart a young adult romance in which you get to know the female protagonist more intimately than the Sookie of HBO. Girls who have little or no interest in vampires will adore the book because they can relate to Sookie's outsider status as an insecure-but-special girl in an unfamiliar world.Open-minded adult readers probably will enjoy the series as well, but the prose can be a bit dull as the author writes with a vocabulary appropriate for its target middle school/junior high audience. Those preferring adult vampire novels should Anne Rice--Charlaine Harris's youth fiction is a genre unto itself. Warning: Parents thinking about buying the series, don't gift this to the kids if you're uncomfortable with brief sex scenes, violence or innuendo. There's far more yearning than bedding in Book 1. The content is easily more graphic on the small screen than inDead Until Dark (Sookie Stackhouse, Book 1). Mature teens should handle it well, adult readers who are fans of the show may be disappointed.
3	1264291200	An adult version of the Twilight series.  Stephanie Meyers quite obviously stole almost every single idea from this writer to write her own tripe.  It's a wonder Ms. Meyers didn't get sued.  Sookie, however, is quite a deal more likable than Bella which makes this book a much easier read.
5	1264291200	In the first Sookie Stackhouse novel (formerly the Southern Vampire Mysteries), we meet a twenty-five year old southern waitress who leads an ordinary life in the small town of Bon Temps, LA & suffers from a disability. It soon becomes clear that Sookie has the extraordinary ability to read minds which will come in handy, but not until she meets her first vampire Bill Compton. It's been a couple of years since vampires `came out of the coffin' to let the world know of their `virus' since a Japanese company invented synthetic blood bottled known as TruBlood. (In every type, though they are supposed to not be as fully satisfying as the real thing.) While Sookie's mind is constantly working to block the noise & images she receives from other human's thoughts, Bill's mind is silent to Sookie, which allows her to relax around him & embark on her first romance, much to the chagrin of certain people.A murderer is taking the lives of women who have previously been involved with vampires & when Sookie's brother Jason is implicated in the crimes, it's up to her & Bill to find out who the killer is. Charlaine Harris expands on the vampire canon in new & interesting ways, she makes each character stand out (moreso in the later novels in the series, reviews to come) & although we don't come to understand vampires completely, we get an idea that part of their humanity was never lost. And that human beings are capable of the worst crimes imaginable which makes their fear & prejudice towards the supernatural hypocritical.Fans of `True Blood' who haven't read the books may be slightly disappointed with the storyline, but overall it contains much of the same plot as season one with a few major differences. Compared to tv Bill, he is more gruff & mysterious & other major characters in the show e.g. Tara, LaFayette, & Eric, do not figure prominently yet in the series.
5	1264118400	I was lent this book after watching the HBO show based on this series.  I enjoyed this book from the first chapter.  Each book is one series in the tv show but there are enough differences that if you have seen "True Blood" you will get more of the background and in depth story telling that makes this series so enticing.  I am now finished with the 4th book in the series and I can honestly say each book gets better and better.  There is a whirlwind of mystery, suspicious characters and humor to keep you hooked.  I would recommend this to anyone wanting to escape with the help of a great book.
4	1264032000	Having seen Season One of True Blood simply lent itself well to my reading of volume #1 of the Sookie Stackhouse series.  The book was an easy read, fun, and as purported, you sat down to read just a couple pages and you found yourself reading a chapter or two.  Great stuff, definitely a recommended book for those of you who like a fun, fast, light read with a moderate sprinkling of vampires.
4	1263600000	This book is not great literature by any means but it was fun and entertaining. I think the idea of vampires "coming out of the coffin" and trying to mainstream is a really original idea.I agree with my friend Jessica that Sookie's outfits are distractingly horrible. She wears a BANANA CLIP in her hair?? And she thinks Vampire Bill likes her hair down because it's sexy. No honey - even he knows the banana clip has got to go. At first I thought maybe this book takes place in the 80s and that's why the outfits are so bad but in the second book of the series it mentions cell phones and Britney Spears so no such luck.The fashion notwithstanding, this book was a lot of fun to read and I am now hooked on the series.
1	1263340800	I bought this because it had good reviews and it was on sale..... I now know why it was on sale. This was the worst book and Twilight rip off I have ever ever sat through, I felt obligated to listen to the whole thing with a false hope that it would get better, it didn't.First off the plot, ughhhhh.... where to begin, it was oversexed and under-interesting. Blah........The characters;(Sam/Edward)an annoyingly over sexual vampire who is apparently a huge slutty groupy with poor taste in friends and ignorant to the extreme. But somehow the character finds him romantic and falls in love with him.(Sookie/Bella) An uber-annoying southern girl who is ultra into herself and extreamly stupid and nieve, oh and she's psychic, kinda but only when it's convienent for the books lame plot.(Sam/Jacob)A shape shifter bar manager who is in love with Sookie and shape-shifts into a dog..... hmmm sounds familiar.(Eric/Aro) An old vampire who has rank because he is so old and desires Sookie because of her psychic ability.I could go on, but I just don't care.Oh...... my favorite part of this idiotic mess of a book, Elvis (yes thee Elvis) is a vampire in the book. Yup.... because if it wasn't lamers enough you might as well throw in a dead celebrity as a vampire, classy!Okay onto the narrator; She has a southern accent which I like, but she plays it up and it makes the character sound very ditsy. Her male voices all sound slow and retarded, it's REALLY bad..... like no effort at all. You can't tell any of her characters except the main one apart. Aghhhhh!!!!!!!!!!!! This book was awful, just trust me!
5	1263168000	Let me start by saying that these are the books that I did not want to read. I mean, who names their main character Sookie, anyway? And the setting - I just pictured these characters to be southern aristocrats. A bit snobby, high class...Well, I was just stereotyping, wasn't I? And being from the south, I should know better! But I stand corrected.These books are fantastic. They are so far from being like True Blood that I find myself seriously criticizing the HBO series. If you are a fan of vampire lit. and you are not reading these, you should.On a side note, the only reason I picked the first book up was because I was stuck in a hotel room one weekend while my hubby attended a convention. The weather was too yucky for sight-seeing, but perfect for a good book. I picked it up at a local bookstore, devoured it in less than one day, and was on the third book by the end of the weekend.Yeah, they're that good!This first book sets the stage and orients the reader to the main characters in the book. You find out a little about the vampire society of the series, and you watch Sookie and Bill's romance blossom!This is an excellent book that I highly recommend.
5	1262995200	I've read this book and I am already a fan of Charlaine Harris' writing.  This book is a rare gem, it has a good mixture of intelligent, artful writing and joyous entertainment.  Usually I despise books and works of art that are just "mindless entertainment" as I also despise works that are so cerebral they have no heart.  To me the best art is the one that makes you think and entertains in the process.  This is how this book is written.  It has a social message about accepting minorities and a nice story of mystery and love.  Neither part (the intellectual and the fun) upstages the other one and while you try to discover the mysteries of the novel you also think about the commentary the author is making.  And Harris makes it seem so simple to write this way!Also Sookie is a real heroine and because the novel is written in 1st person from her point of view, is deliciously fun to savor her sass and intelligence.  The love part of the story works, it's original, sexy and never falls into being too melodramatic or cliched.  The mystery part works great and it's this part that sucks you into the novel.  It's obviously a whodunnit but a very original one.  The best thing I have to say about the book is, that Harris knows her characters so well, that it's impossible for her to make a false step, and as she writes, she knows where she wants to lead us.  If you read it you'll notice how every simple detail from the first chapter falls into place at the end.  To me that proves that an author knows her story and her characters and it's not misguided.  Highly recomended.
5	1262822400	I finished the Sookie Sackhouse books and am anxiously awaiting the next one. Featuring shapeshifters, vampires, and the Fae, the books are an engaging mix of quirky humor, action, suspense, adventure and a touch of romance. The characters are well developed and intriguing. With excellent world building and a highly original storyline, I couldn't put these books down. I started the series and immediately had to run out and buy the rest of the books so I could read them straight through! Fans of both urban fantasy and paranormal romance will love these books.If you are on the hunt for more books like this, check out my list of paranormal romance and urban fantasy favorites...http://www.amazon.com/Paranormal-action-romance-must-reads/lm/R214ESW3HL12HM/ref=tag_lag_rb_munk_lmfull(copy and paste into your browser window)
2	1262563200	I've recently started watching the show on HBO, and I really enjoy it.  So, while waiting for the second season to be released on DVD I thought I'd give the books a go.  I was sorely disapointed.  The polt and character development in the show was miles above what it was in the book.  I only got about halfway through the book before I just gave up.  I won't be reading anymore of this series, but I'll definately be watching the show!
1	1262304000	when i first started reading it i thought it was just like twilight but i read the series and i loved them. i recamend people reading it.
5	1262304000	I've tried reading the Twilight saga, but was only disappointed. After hearing about these books I figured I'd give them a shot. Turns out they are nothing like Twilight (thank goodness). The characters aren't too melodramatic, the vampires aren't mary-sues, and there is plenty of action involved to keep me wondering what is going to happen next. Also, Sookie Stackhouse, unlike Bella Swan, can walk a straight line without tripping over air. She also does not always feel the need to whine or mull over the most ridiculous things. I enjoyed reading this book and look forward to reading the further installments in the Southern Vampire Mysteries.
5	1261526400	This is a great book and probably the lightest of the series in terms of mood. Sookie is a small town Southern girl with a special ability -- she can read minds. Combine that with a fascination with the world of the undead and the story ensues. The books are funny and scary at the same time and lots of fun to read. I love the Sookie Stackhouse novels for their quirkiness and vampire lore. Be warned: While the HBO show uses the title and characters from these books, that's pretty much where the similiarity ends. The show is much darker, sexualized and twisted.
4	1261440000	I'll have to start off by letting you know this is not my type of book. I'm not much in to the paranormal romance stuff but I do give it a try once in a while. I have a friend though who reads nothing but this kind of genre. She told me about this series a long time ago and has declared it one of her favorites. I decided to give it a try (seriously doubting I would enjoy it). Boy! I am so glad I did. This book is absolute fun! It was suspenseful but at the same time made me laugh throughout the whole book. I would have to say that the best part of the book is the main character... Sookie Stackhouse. She is smart, pretty, sarcastic and pure southern. She would be someone I would want to hang out with. She has one "problem" though. She's telepathic. Even though we might think that would be cool, a lot of the time it isn't. Sometimes you just don't want to know what people are thinking! Sookie is a small time waitress at a bar and she always wanted to meet a vampire now that they are accepted in the real world. Soon she gets her chance. Not only does she get to meet him but saves his life as well. This puts a bond between them that keeps the book rolling with action and adventure. If you love vampires, southern hospitality, good laughs and a book that keeps you going then I highly recommend this one for you!
5	1261440000	This book is just great! Its suspenseful keeps you on the edge of your seat trying to think of what the heck is gonna happen next!FYI Im pretty sure you dont want a young young girl to read the book it does have alot of sexual things in it. Not like a porno or anything but its graphic enough to matter if your kids like probably under 16 would be my guess but kids are sexually active alot younger these days.. I know i know people think "oh not my baby" but be realistic!! This book was great i just love authors individual interpretations of supernatural things like vampires and such.. I will be reading the whole series for sure
4	1261180800	Sookie Stackhouse, a telepathic waitress in tiny, rural Bon Temps, Louisiana, falls in love with Vampire Bill Compton, a Civil War veteran that is attempting to mainstream. Someone, vampire or human, is targeting and brutally murdering "fangbangers", and Sookie's brother is arrested. Though Sookie's voice is incredibly simplistic and cutesy (very Mary Sue), I couldn't quite get myself to hate it. Her and Bill's characters are much too complex and refreshingly original. Bill has to be one of the best vampire characters ever; we are never allowed to completely understand, pity, or love him, but instead are constantly reminded of his inhumanity, but also his tragedy of trying to mainstream. At the same time that he is heroic, he is incredibly frightening in his protection and obsession with Sookie. The plot of the novel is incredibly clever, original, and exciting. We just may have found that illusive Harry Potter for adults (though Harry Potter is for adults, but you know what I mean). Now, with all that said, I have to stipulate that the show which is based upon this novel (the first season of True Blood), is richer (in plot and character), darker, tenser, deeper. The characters (due to the fantastic acting, writing, directing, and production) are much more dynamic and complex. The show is also deeper, with its themes of prejudice and the definitions of humanity and monstrosity. Not to take anything away from the book, but, eh, it happens sometimes. Grade: A-
5	1261180800	I started reading this because I fell in love with the HBO series True Blood. I was curious to see how similar the show was to the books. I really ended up liking the way that these were written. They're so comical, and so fun to read. I wasn't disappointed after watching the series either way. I like the books and I like the show. I'm reading the 2nd book now. I recommend this series to anyone into the whole vampire genre.
3	1260921600	I liked parts of this book and disliked parts, I will try to explain.Liked~ The storyline the whole vampires out of the closet,the characters were interesting even though I felt there may be too many. Oops thats a dislike.Dislike ~Too much explicit sex~~ The killing of a character that I felt would have made the series more interesting.I guess I didn't find this book great and don't feel it lived up to all the hype I've heard.I am reading the second installment and do so far like it a bit better except that as with this book she's killed off a colorful character in the first 10 or so pages.But this is about the first book.So I will conclude that the jury is still out on this series of books we'll see if when I get done with the 2nd one if it makes me want to read the 3rd.
3	1260748800	I started watching the TV series True Blood before I read the first book. I have to say that the TV series is better. You don't get all the points of view in the book since it is written solely from Sookie's. Many people complained about certain elements of the story (nitpicking is what I call it) regarding her "inexperience with men" but yet "That's all she can think about."  Well, hello? Yeah, if you're curious, you're going to think about it. Another nitpick was she said Bill wouldn't know about electricity and how to wire houses. Granted he's been "alive" for over a hundred years, but why should that make him an expert on wiring houses? I can overlook little things like that. However, I have to say that some elements of the story are questionable -- like where is Sam when she REALLY needs him? I also must mention Charlaine Harris' writing style which is not that of a seasoned author. It was a jumbled mess in some parts and I hate the way she describes Sookie's mindreading. She rushes through some scenes like she's just trying to get it on paper in a hurry -- doesn't matter how fragmented the sentences or thoughts are. It really makes me question how some authors (like Ms. Harris) even get published. However, this is not classic literature. It is easy weekend fluff reading, and it works well for that. I would like to read the rest of the books, and will probably end up having to buy them used as they are hard to find at my local libraries.
4	1260662400	This book is pure entertaining delight with romance, humor, mystery, and vampires.  The story takes place in a small Louisiana town.  The government has just given equal rights to vampires (just go with it).  The protagonist, Sookie Stackhouse, is perceived by her community to be a dim-witted waitress who has little prospects for the future.  Little do they know that Sookie has the gift (or disability) of telepathy, and she is not anywhere close to ordinary.  The story follows the growth of Sookie from naive, crazy girl to courageous, sexy woman.  She falls in love with a vampire, hunts down a serial killer, and saves her friends from harm.Verdict:  This is a great escapist book.  It's an easy read but is fully entertaining with its lovable protagonist, hilarious wit, and fantastical characters and plot.
5	1260403200	I had actually read this a coupla years back but never got around to reading any of the rest of the series and then the TV show came out which peaked my interest again and I have reread it.I really loved it! A huge plus for me is the southern setting. With me being from the south I can relate so much with the characters and their drawl and speech, ect...Sookie has a special talent of reading minds but she feels it is a curse because it's just downright unnatural and disturbing hearing the thoughts swimming around in anothers mind especially if there lewd and about her!  Then Bill the vampire comes along and she cant read him and it's almost like she fell in love with him for that simple fact not to mention the fascination of him being a real live vampire! "Pun intended"Sam the bar owner has always had a thing for Sookie but until he realized he may lose her to a vampire no less he never had the nerve to approach her with his feelings and now it may be to late.Murders are piling up in Bon Temps and poor Sookie's brother Jason and vampire Bill are the top suspects!I totally enjoyed reading this first book of the series and am looking forward to the rest. If you love a good vampire romance with a twist of mystery then this is your series![...]
5	1260230400	Loved this book and all the rest of the series!  I just wish &#34;Trueblood&#34; followed the books closer.
5	1260144000	So all those fans of the 'Twilight' franchise... this is what you need to be reading, not that dribble.This has got to be one of the most entertaining reads I have come across in a while. The story is out of the norm, a society that lets Vampires actually live amongst them doesn't happen very often, and the twist and turns don't stop there.Its is written so humorously that with books I find it rare to laugh out lout, but this book did. Also the sexual context in this is pretty saucy, at time I think I may have been blushing while reading it."The Sookie Stackhouse" series is one thats just as great as its television adaptation..
4	1259539200	Charlaine Harris has done a great job mixing it up with her first of the Southern Vampire Mysteries. From mystery, to supernatural and even (gasp) romance, this book is a quick read. It never takes itself too seriously and who doesn't love a heroine who can kick some butt? For those of you into the TrueBlood TV series, you'll find this fairly different from the series' story line. But don't despair, the books give you added insight and are just as entertaining. Bottom line: if you're wanting to pass a few hours of indulgent fun, pick up Dead Until Dark and enjoy!
4	1259452800	Interesting little book. Sort of a campy Anita Blake. Bill is likable and Sooky is ditzy. Nice mix of comedy and violence.
5	1259280000	Okay, so I signed up to do a vampire challenge from Alucard's Rose. One of the things I said I would do was look up True Blood on netflix and try watching it. At this time I didn't know it was based on a series of books. Well I watched it and well it is okay, but I can't stand anything HBO does because they have to base everything around sex.So I decided to try the book because I know that books are always better and it is true with Dead Until Dark. I love Sookie, she has to be one of my favorite new characters for this year. You can just hear that southern accent in your mind while you are reading..lol.  Yes, there are sex scenes in the book but nothing like what is in the series True Blood.  It is fun seeing characters come to life, but I must rather keep them as they are in the book. I also hate how they can't seem to put anything that was in the book in the show. Do they always have to change things around..argh!Okay enough harping on the show lets get to the book. This is also my first ever book by Charlaine Harris and so far I have found her style of writing to be very easy to read. I didn't want to but the book down because I always wanted to know what was going to happen next to Sookie and Vampire Bill.The book has great characters that you can really fall in love with, even the semi bad vampire Eric is cool. The one thing that made me laugh is that the main character vampire's name is Bill. Now if you were like me you just couldn't help but laugh because I never think Bill when I think vampire, but it really fits him when you say Vampire Bill. We are in the south and it just sort of rolls of your tongue reall good. Say it with me....Vampire Bill.....LOL  Okay, well I really don't know what else to say about this book except that I really loved this book. I have several of the other books and I hope I like them too.So if you haven't read this book yet and you love vampire books I would suggest you run out now and get the book.
2	1259280000	I picked this book up after watching the first season of True Blood (which I loved) on HBO.  I couldn't believe how weak the book was.  Harris does develop interesting characters and has a vivid imagination.  She just doesn't follow through with the storyline and plot development.  For example, in the series when Sookie realizes who the killer is, she is in her house with him and reads his mind.  She runs outside to try and escape.  In the book, she is in the house, by herself, realizes that the killer is outside in the woods, and decides....to run out of the house into the woods to escape.  I'm like "what!"  It made no sense and completely destroyed the drama of the confrontation because you are still thinking "why did she leave the house?"Obviously the television series has much better writers when it comes to plot development and dramatic writing.  I've decided not to read any more of her books.  But True Blood still rocks!
5	1259020800	The book was great and in my opinion better than the show!! I love how its narrated by Sookie, that gives me a chance to understand her better and understand why she is the way she is.  I have read every book in the series and I must say each one was just as interesting as the next.  Alot of Season 1 was derived from the  book but it still has it own twist and turns.  I dont want to type any spoilers but I do recommend it, it is a good enjoyable intense read.
4	1258416000	The plot was good, but it took a while to get into it, unlike the other books, where you can see Charlaine got used to writing the character and took more liberties with language and explicit material.  She seemed to take a while to get to the point in her writing, but that is my only complaint.  Otherwise, it would have gotten a perfect score.
5	1258329600	I loved this book. I have to say, I started watching the series first. After falling in love with True Blood, I had to check out the books. AND WOW, I am glad I did. The book is so fun to read, with laugh out loud pages all the way through. I think I love the books now more than the show. But the show did a great job matching Actors to the characters in the books. I am now hooked screen and paper.
5	1258243200	You will want to read the whole series.  It is a book series that you will want to read just to see what happens next.  You won't be able to put it down.
2	1258156800	I'm still rather surprised at how huge this series has become.  Surely it should be an amazing bunch of books to be so beloved.  However, I had to force myself to finish this book.  I've read the sample several times and never wanted to continue, but I finally decided to give this book a chance.As a fan of the genre, I asked myself several times why this book (save a few choice pages) wasn't listed under young adult fiction.  It just can't compare with other series in this genre.  The plot was simple and cliche, the characters immature and flat, and the dialogue cutesy and shallow.Has the author read any other vampire fiction?  I really fail to see why Bill sleeps under a layer of dirt in the cemetery outside his house.  Very little was explained, even the things that ask you to suspend what you know as vampire basics.This book was everything I would have expected of a young adult book, but there is a reason I don't read YA fiction.  I was literally falling asleep when I realized the bad guy was about to be revealed and I had to stop and think twice about whether I should shut off for the night or push through and finish up.  That's how boring the whole thing was.
1	1258070400	I guess I am not hip to the new thing that authors are doing by disabling the text to speech feature...I drive many hours in my car and the only way I can get through most books is with that feature. I will probably never read this book after spending 9.99 on it because I have no intentions now of buying the rest of the series.Shame on you Charlaine Harris for taking that away from people who really enjoy it.
1	1257984000	The smart HBO series made me want to read these books. I will stick with HBO!!I have just completed the fourth book in the series and am becoming increasingly amazed by the thoughtful reviews of the books in this series. Why write a thoughtful review about a vapid book (an assessment that is easily made after reading the first few pages)? Why are readers so surprised by the weak plots, poorly developed characters and writing that lacks sophistication? What in the world did you expect? Admittedly, the idea of the books is clever, but the execution falls far short. Judging by her writing style, reminiscent of high school, and her use of cheap humor Charlaine Harris lacks the skills of Anne Rice, Thomas Harris or Jasper Fforde. This is what you get with airport books. You read these books because they provide cheap entertainment and can be skimmed without losing any understanding of the plot. Be realistic about the books you choose to read. These books are not literature. And under no circumstances should you pay full price for any of these books.
3	1257811200	The movie is never as good as the book . . . except when Alan Ball adapts pulp redneck vampire porn into television literature.  Harris's concept - our own world in which the invention of cheap synthetic blood has enabled vampires to "come out of the coffin" - and her sweet, clever, emotionally-debilitated heroine are the only inspired elements in the contrived, uncertain first two novels of the Sookie Stackhouse series.  Someone told me that the definition of Hot Mess is someone who comes out her wardrobe wearing everything she owns.  Harris in a Hot Mess of a writer, shoehorning every whimsical idea she has into this odd opening novel.  Had I stopped reading after 'Dead Until Dark' and 'Living Dead in Dallas,' I would have assumed that someone challenged Alan Ball to turn the schlockiest, most unevenly written source material he could find into an intelligent, thought-provoking, compelling television series.  Harris's story of a cocktail waitress with telepathic powers befriending a 150 year old vampire returning to the small town he left during the American civil war veers between brilliant and stupid, insighful and silly.  Characters are either unique and deeply drawn or sitcom archetypes cut out of thin tissue paper.  The prose is a little better than the story and characters; writing from waitress Sookie's point-of-view, there are many colorful and touching passages evoking humor, sadness, and surprise.  But no, the books are not as good as HBO's television serious -- at first.  Now that I have read all of the Stackhouse novels, I have to admire the writer that Harris becomes in the laster books.  Most of the novels are contrived and require characters standing around at the end explaining all the twists, turns, and red herrings in the mysteries and supernatural intrigue, but the characters, metaphors, and plot ripen as the story of Sookie progresses.  So while the opening volumes are not exceptional, I recommend them so that the reader can appreciate what these adventures grow into.
4	1257724800	I think Dead Until Dark had the possibility of being a 5 shot book, but I watch True Blood. I spent the majority of the novel wondering where Tara was, comparing the actors to the characters in the book and wishing they had used Bubba in the show. Had I not watched the show first, I really believe this book would have been amazing. The book is still very good and I picture Sookie more Jessica Simpson than Anna Paquin now. It was fast, easy, fun and has the potential of being very exciting for someone who hasn't seen the show yet.
5	1257638400	I am so pleased that I have discovered this vampire series. I am now hooked and I will be reading all of the remaining 9 novels in the series.This novel is about a waitress, Sookie, who is able to read minds. Sookie then meets Bill, a vampire, who is the only person whose mind she can't read.  The two of them began an adventurous relationship while Sookie's brother, Jason, is being framed for a series of murders that he has not committed.
5	1257465600	I liked the True Blood series so I found the books online and ordered a few. I found that I was fascinated by the characters and story lines, even more than the series. I can't stop reading. It is such an interesting way to think about the world, and it makes you want to jump into the book. I think real life seems a little dull at the moment.I've now bought all the rest of the Stackhouse books and some of Harris' other books which I'll save for when I am mourning the end of the Stackhouse novels. I just bought the Stackhouse books in Spanish, too, so I can brush up on my Spanish. I thought that would be fun after I read the English version through a second time.I read all the time and I've never enjoyed a book more. I hope Harris will write a few more.
1	1257379200	The first book in the Charlaine Harris Sookie Stackhouse series that has been turned into the popular HBO series True Blood is actually the basis for the first season of that series. I recently watched both seasons(coming late to the game) and found them amusing since they were somewhat humorous, filled with terrible acting, ridiculous plots and fairly unlikeable characters. In other words: TOTAL TRASH. Yet sometimes you want to be amused by mindless entertainment and in that regard the HBO series does remarkably well. The only point that would improve the series (aside from better writing, better acting, better direction, better special effects and better art direction) would be to eighty-six the gratuitous sex. The same could also be said for the book too and that is only the beginning.This book is pure wish fulfillment fantasy (like the Twilight series)only with an NC-17 twist. It isn't quite porn (it comes much closer to that in the HBO series) since it leaves out the dirty words but once the virginal Sookie Stackhouse gets into doing the nasty with Vampire Bill - that is pretty much all she does every 10 pages or so. Then add in the fact that every single man (and some women too) that she interacts with desires her, loves her, is falling in love with her and that she is so self-absorbed that she describes herself as pretty with big boobs and usually gives a description of what she's wearing or will be wearing - you've got yourself one shallow, self-centered, uninteresting character.Sookie's love-interest (well one of them at least)Vampire Bill is a cardboard cut-out with no heart and no soul, just big throbbing man business that he likes to skewer Sookie with constantly. He takes her virginity right after her beloved grandmother (who only is alive for about thirty pages)is murdered and feeds on Sookie for the first time as well. Because right after seeing the woman who raised you in a bloody mess on the kitchen floor you'd definitely want some undead monster sucking your blood. That seems to make sense, right?In another scene Vampire Bill does Sookie six ways to Sunday in a graveyard when he tunnels up out of the ground. Sookie thought that he could be dead, well, DEAD-ER, so she was glad to see him - I guess really glad because she didn't even say, hey why don't we walk over to your house naked muddy man and get you cleaned up and talk instead of you defiling me in a graveyard?Vampire Bill also has a secret desire to become a hairdresser since he is always doing Sookie's glorious blonde mane of hair. He picks out her clothes too. He treats her like a doll, a child, a developmentally challenged waif with boobs (which she essentially is) and yet she crows on and on about being a feisty, intelligent, independent woman and yet you never really see that in anything she does particularly in her relationship (which really isn't a relationship - where did the LOVE come from? From minute one Vampire Bill wanted to do her and drink her blood, that isn't love)with Bill.Her boss Sam is in love with her (he is a shapeshifter who turns into collie to protect her) and she entertains occasional fantasies about him and also Eric, the 1,000 year old former Viking vampire is also in love with her and pursuing her much to Bill's chagrin since Eric is much more powerful (given his age)and about 6 inches taller than he is to boot. But every man who meets Sookie falls in love with her (much like Bella in the Twilight series), desires her, will protect her, save her from danger and lay down his life for her. This is usually upon meeting her for the first time.The flashes of humor in the HBO series are rare in the book but the plotting is similarly ridiculous and contrived. It feels like the vampire lore is being made-up as the author goes along. In the first book the vampires have been out of the coffin for four years, in the second book that is changed to two years (like the series). Bill was married in his past human life and had five children which was curtailed to three in the second book with one that died in infancy. Also the name of the blood drink changes in the two books, it is Life Force in the first and Pure Blood in the second.Sookie has almost no emotional reaction whatsoever at any of the multiple murders that take place in the book. Not even her grandmother's murder elicits much of a reaction from her (it is the same in the series to a point that I believe it is supposed to be some kind of darkly comedic ironic commentary, that these people are shallow and moronic and don't even care when people they know are murdered or something to that effect - at least I think that is what they are trying to do, I could be wrong. Perhaps it is just terrible writing.).Sookie accepts everything without raising any questions of morality. It's fine that people have been murdered (because they were trashy women anyway) and she cleans up the kitchen where her grandmother was murdered and then after the funeral is serving people out of it like she's having a tea party. She continually walks over the spot where her grandmother had been brutally slain, to fetch a pitcher of lemonade. I mean, wouldn't that just shatter you somewhat?She never feels a moment of grief. She's as cold and dead as Vampire Bill.Not one single character stands out in the book. They are all words on paper and nothing more. One note characters. Some only half a note. You don't feel anything for anyone. The minor characters are so minor that you'll be hard pressed to remember their names let alone anything about them. Inexplicably Elvis also shows up as a half-witted vampire. It isn't even remotely funny which I think was the entire point of it. It just seems out of place but then so do many of the scenes since there is no real through-line (that is supposed to be Sookie but all she cares about once she loses her virginity is getting the hot(in in the vampire's case - cold)-beef injection).Many plot points are never explored, lore is left unexplained and there is no sense of place or time. I know nothing about Louisiana and would have appreciated a description here and there. Also I have no idea when the story takes place. There are a few cultural references that seem outdated now (the book was published in 2001), yet the book is supposed to take place somewhere in the future (though even in the series it is hard to pin-point when).In the series many minor characters (Sookie's brother Jason is just a plot device in the book but becomes the foremost fornicator in the series, Lafayette who dies in the second book is a major character in the series, Tara who is not even in the first book but makes a slight appearance in the second is also a major character) have been given new life since the series is NOT told from Sookie's point of view. I can hear how the HBO development meeting went - "Hey this is Twilight but for adults! We'll put in tons of sex, lots of erotic blood-letting, frat boy gross-outs, some orgies and have the leading actress who is a former child-star Academy Award winner (that would be Anna Paquin) get all naked and drilled like an oil well! It's a winner!"Unfortunately for me I purchased the boxed set, so I will have to read them (if I can possibly make it through the blinding stupidity). The bottom line is this book is poorly written, sophomoric and as compelling as indigestion. You just want it to be over so you can feel like yourself again.
5	1257379200	I have never really enjoyed reading. I think because it always took me so long to read a book, so I would get discouraged and quit. I read this book in less than a week. I would read for 2 hours at a time. I cant wait to get this next one. The show is great too. Its a little different then book but I love them both.
5	1257292800	I really enjoyed this book and I have continued reading the series, I just finished book five and as soon as my college semester slows down I plan on starting book six.  Anyone who enjoys the show will probably love the books.  Unlike the show, the books are told from solely Sookie's perspective, so you get kind of a different feel from the stories than the show.  I really loved dead until dark.  It sticks very closely to the storyline of the HBO series trublood, with a few differences in character relevance and how things happen.  I definitely recommend the whole series, but start with this one so you can keep on track.  they build on one another.
4	1257206400	As a fan of the series True Blood on HBO I was thrilled to find out the series was based on books by Charlaine Harris. Dead Until Dark introduces the readers to the quirky, humorous, violent, scary world of Bon Temps, LA. and the residents who live there. Sookie Stackhouse the telepathic waitress from Merlotte's bar meets her first vampire, Bill Compton, and things take off from there. Sookie has no idea what surprises lay in store and the reader follows her easily with Harris' flare for making Sookie seem like an old friend that we're just catching up with. This is definetly not your Twilight Series book as there are some vivid erotic descriptions, although it is tamer than the HBO series. The secondary characters are great and could be a spin off series unto themselves. Harris has created an entertaining story with enough twists and turns to keep you guessing what lays in store for Sookie and Bill. Dead until Dawn is addicting-- so be prepared to quickly read this first installment and before you know it you'll be on to the next.
5	1257206400	My friend recommended these books to me when I told her I loved the television series "True Blood" that the show was based on. This book was very intriguing to me especially the chemistry with Sookie and Bill. I found the characters and the situations around them very enjoyable to read about. These books are probably being compared to the Twilight Series. Lets just say Edward and Bella(4th book) and, Sookie and Bill(1st book). Can not wait for the 2nd book.
4	1257120000	I started on the book series because I'm such a fan of the TV series.  And while I'm still a fan of the TV series, I do think I like some of the humor and twists of the books better.  Obviously, the producers of the show have taken huge liberties and even changed the way some of the events--such as the serial murders--took place.
3	1256774400	Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress in the small town of Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Sookie can read minds - this would seem like a gift to some, but to Sookie, it's a disability.  Listening to everyone's thoughts is overwhelming and blocking them out gets very tiring.  Sookie is thrilled when a vampire, Bill Compton, comes into the small bar she works in because she's been wanting to meet a vampire ever since they became legally recognized.Sookie and Bill become involved in an on again/off again relationship and several women in Bon Temps have been murdered.  Some people suspect vampires are guilty and others suspect Sookie's brother, Jason.  Jason asks Sookie to do some mind reading to solve the crimes and clear his name.There's a little more to DEAD UNTIL DARK by Charlaine Harris, but I don't want to reveal any spoilers.  I've read a lot of reviews of this book and know lots of people who loved it.  I think my expectations were set too high, because it was just a little better than average for me.  I couldn't understand Sookie's attraction to Bill and was frustrated at times with their relationship.  I also felt like the story got bogged down in unnecessary details and like the reader wasn't given enough clues to try to solve the mystery.  The story was a light, fun read but it just didn't draw me in like I was expecting it to.
3	1256774400	I received this book as a birthday gift and was quite excited (see earlier mentions of squeals and dances when books are received as gifts). I was hesitant to read this series because I love "True Blood" and have heard that the show differs in a few ways from the books, but that's to be expected. Initially when I started reading Dead Until Dark I hated it. I thought Sookie's personality was ditzy and annoying. It's all first-person point of view, so I thought the whole book would be trouble for me, having to be in her head the whole time. But I took a breath, and relaxed, and once I got used to it I was able to set aside my preconceptions from HBO and read the book pretending I didn't know anything about it. Having said that, I am not a huge fan. I liked it, but I like the show more. I think the characters are more enjoyable in the show since the first person POV in the book tends to make any other character development impossible. I also think the book would have been very bland if I hadn't already seen the show and had images in my head. I was annoyed by the amount of detail given to Sookie's every wardrobe change, whether it be denim dress, or shorts and Grateful Dead t-shirt. Granted it was only one or two lines, but it was every time she decided to change, which was frequently. And at one point she put a scrunchy over her ponytail, and I have major issues with anything from the 80s happening in a book written this century. It's the reason I no longer read the Women's Murder Club series.There were some good things about it, it wasn't complete nonsense. It was a very quick read; I could have finished it in a day if I wanted to. And it's a light read, I didn't feel weighed down in the process which was nice. It's obviously a good idea and a good plot, but I hope the next book is better. My favorite part by far was Bubba, the man from Memphis. All I will say is that it involved Googling on my part because I thought I had missed something, and then when I did Google, I laughed hysterically because I was kinda-sorta right. If you've read the book you might know what I mean (but don't spoil it for anyone else!) but if you have read the book and don't know what I mean, you should Google. But don't read too much because I inadvertantly read a spoiler and am SO annoyed by people who don't warn.In my mind, Dead Until Dark doesn't yet match up to the emotional connection of Twilight, or the suspense of Harry Potter. But it's only the first book in the series, so I'm not writing Ms. Harris off just yet. I'm giving it 2-3 stars (sorry, I usually try to avoid half stars) and will read the second one a few books down the road.
5	1256688000	The book came in great condition and I loved the story line.  I can't wait to read the rest of the series.
5	1256169600	OK, yeah, I'm a True Blood fan, but these were on my list to read before the show started so I don't feel so bad.The first book in the series was a perfect introduction to the world of Sookie Stackhouse. Anna Paquin plays her very well, so I can imagine Mrs. Harris is proud that her heroine is being done justice. I loved this book. I hated to put it down. I stayed up until morning finishing it even though I had to go to work. The scenes are described in deatil, as is the action. I loved that it was in first person and I loved that it was written with that Southern feeling. I loved that it felt genuine. Did I mention that the book had good humour in it? I don't think I did, but it does. I was left laughing in some parts so much I had to put the book down. I love that she makes you feel for her characters. I felt sorry for Jason and exasperated the same as Sookie. I just wanted to meet Bubba and keep my cat away from him. I wanted to cry all over again at the death of Sookie's grandmother.This is going to be a great vampire series I just know it, and I'm reading the second book now. And I'm very picky about vampires.
1	1256083200	Having no other place to put my review/thoughts on Charlaine Harris' entire series #books 1-10#, I'am putting it here. To start with, I was hooked on the series and the charecters from the very first book, I watched the series with the fervor of a religious zealot, I even loaned the books to friends and family to spread the joy. Gradually however, over time I found myself skimming through needless information and pages #if I have to read one more horrible description of an outfit that sookie or anyone sookie happens upon in the book I'm going to go insane. Really, I want to know more about the depth of sookie's and other charecters mind not the depth of her fashion sense and abilities or in her case the lack of a fashion sense#, which I hardly do when I treat myself to a book. With my realization of what I was doing I had an epiphany. I was bored out my mind! Granted I still love the charecters and will most likely borrow a friends book when the time comes that charlaine harris will grace us with book 11 but from this day forward I vow not to spend another penny on these books. The occasional action packed scenes draw me in with hope only to dissapoint me later on. In addition, I can hardly believe every good-looking male "supe" or straight male human Sookie comes across is instantly attracted and in love with her. This tendency, while certainly not as bad as the anita blake novels rattles my teeth to no end. We get it, Sookie is hot, every man in her past still loves her, every man in her future still loves her and lets not any of us forget that she has a nice rack. Really, there is no need to grill it into our minds every other chapter. While not all bad, this series has dwindled in interest for me and for many of my friends and family who actually now deny my offer of lending them more books. For those who LOVE it on a five star level, happy reading! I for one find myself more and more drawn into the stimulating world of The Hollows series by Kim Harrisson.
3	1255910400	I really tried to like this book, and at first I did, until Grandma died.  The story line just got stranger and stranger.  Now I like Stephen King and Dean Koontz and I even liked Stephanie Meyers, but I could not enjoy this as I have other books.  There was nothing for me to grab hold of on any of the characters.  This will be my first and last Sothern Vampire Mysteries novel.
4	1255824000	Ok, I purchased the first book in this series to sample Charlaine's writing...I liked the book because it was something different...her writing may be oh so ever flawed, but for a regular standard reader like myself, the book was pretty good.  I was reading some of the 2 star reviews, and I have to say that some I agreed with, and got a good laugh.  But, obviously these are well advanced readers or maybe perhaps writers as well.  I am a fan of the HBO True Blood series, and will continue with the book series as well. This book was a very easy read, and if she writes like someone in Jr. High...well, so be it.  I guess I have child-like ways.  I can relate with Sookie because I was a virgin in my late 20's as well...and we do act like the way she does in the book until we get more experience out of life...late bloomers come across as naive, gullable, and possibly stupid.  Believe me, that was me at one point.By the way, in contrast...I really agree with Victoria M. who gave it two stars and explains how page 101 was too flawed...Charlaine did have Sookie describe the Vampire attire as though she had no clue...I also think Sookie whines too much like a 2 year old..but, that is not enough for me to just give up on the books.
5	1255651200	I was looking for another good vampire series after finishing the Twilight Saga.  Was told to check out the Sookie Stackhouse series by my aunt and have been hooked since the first chapter.
4	1255305600	I was afraid that this was going to be totally cheesy, like Twilight was. I'm so glad I was wrong! Dead Until Dark is a fun book...a mystery and a romance all rolled together with a generous helping of vampires.I like the fact that Harris didn't go crazy with her vampires and make them so utterly ridiculous that they distracted from, rather than helped, the story along. (Stephenie Meyer, I'm talking to YOU!) While I did find Sookie (wtf kind of name is that?) a bit on the hokey side, she was a character you could relate to.I'm looking forward to reading other books in this series.
5	1254355200	Having a master's degree in English and spending more than 10 years as a professional writer does not necessarily give me the qualifications to review this book. What does qualify me is that I have not read a book in at least 10 years, barring children's books, and I found myself so interested in this book that I read it in less than two days. I found this book to be exciting, original and suprising. The characters were so well developed that I felt I knew them. After reading this book, I immediately ordered the rest of the Sookie Stackhouse books. I recommend them for anyone who likes a quick read and an unexpected ending.
2	1254182400	What a disappointment.  I heard so much hype about this book. I found it boring and I had to make myself continue reading because I was sure it would eventually get better (after hearing so much great stuff about the series).  I'm glad I didn't buy the boxed set, and only spent my money on the first book.
4	1253577600	Dead Until Dark grabbed me right away. Harris concocted a brilliant universe for Bon Temps, Louisiana. Vampires are now legally recognized (partly due to the Japanese invention of synthetic blood that makes feeding on humans a joy rather than a means of survival. I realize it sounds ridiculous, but it's somewhat believable because the story covers so many logical bases. If vampires were to be accepted into society, this model actually makes sense. Sookie is not necessarily a character I would instantly relate to if I met her on the street, but I did grow to like her as much as I liked her world.The bottom line: I am ambivalent about vampires and Southern fiction as a genre. There are plenty of books (and tv shows) about vampires I like, but I don't read books simply because they're about vampires. I feel similarly about Southern fiction. Of course there are books I enjoy that are set in the South, but the setting does not draw me to these books. What this book is about is less important to me than how enjoyable it is to read. The world of Bon Temps is delightful not because it's Southern or has vampires, but because it's well-rounded and well thought out. Dead Until Dark is not great literature, but it is immensely entertaining and thought provoking.
4	1253577600	I found myself laughing out loud while reading quite a few times. I think my favorite term in the book is 'fang banger', which are vampire groupies basically. I liked the love scenes and found this book had just the right dose of romance, humor and mystery. I like Sookie's character and found her to be smart, funny and sassy. I like Bill too, and wanted the two to get together right from the start.My one problem with this book was that I liked but didn't love Bill. I don't think his character was that strong, I like my heroes to be memorable. When I think about favorite literary vampires, Bill will not be on my top favs. I would consider reading the second installment in this series though.
5	1253404800	I was really unsure on whether or not I would like this book. Atfer reading some of the bad reviews on here, I figured I had to decide if the book was good on my own.  I am a HBO True Blood fanatic. I never read the books before the tv series, so I figured why not see how different the two are. This book was really good. I recommend that everyone that has seen the show, reads this book. I finished it in one day. I could not put it down. Although some parts are different from the show, it is difinitely worth the time to read. I regret not buying the box set in the first place. Now that I'm done, I'm waiting on the box set. I really can't wait. I have nothing to read now. I hope the rest of the books are as good as the first one.
5	1253404800	I'm yet to read this promising book. I've watched the TV series True Blood and that was absolutely fantastic. I can't wait to get stuck into the book!It arrived in perfect condition and before the expected date.
5	1253318400	I read the book in two days!  I was so interested in the differences of the story line and I had to see for myself what they were.  I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of the product.  I will be ordering the second book so I can see what happens next! All True Blood fans should read this book!
3	1252886400	I bought this book in hopes that it would cure my Twilight withdrawal and even though it did in some ways "Dead until Dark" still did not measure up all together. Here is what is good; Sookie is much more of a character than Bella. She won't take any crap and isn't afraid to put her foot down. Here is what is bad; Bill never becomes the character that Edward is. To me, Bill is just a Sookie's boyfriend but I don't feel anything for him. While reading Twilight I actually hoped my own little Edward would walk through the door. Also the story gets somewhat ridiculous at times. Stuff like coffins and garlic which Twilight  dismissed as myths Dead until Dark treats as true and that just adds to the "way-to-much-fantasy-for-me"-part and the love story between Sookie and Bill never gets as strong as  between Edward and Bella. But overall, this was an entertaining book. I might just have to search elsewhere for a love story like Edward and Bella.
4	1252886400	Let me start off by saying that I have a thing for vampires (as she brushes the hair back from her neck).  Creepy and ghoulish equals grand fun and this fangfest by Charlaine Harris did not disappoint.  The fictional location of Bon Temps, Louisiana is the perfect backdrop. Many of residents themselves are a little seedy and scandalous and a haven for vampires  that have "come out of the coffin" to live amongst mere mortals.  When Bill Compton (vampire) walks into Merlotte's bar, it is all over for Sookie.  The fact that she cannot hear Bill's thoughts (a disability she tries to turn off) is the nail in the casket and the affair begins.  The town of Bon Temps and its locals will never be the same.This was such a fun read!  I loved the characters (vampires aren't the only mystical creatures), the banter, the humor and the idea of vampires pulling up a stool right next to you and ordering a bottle of synthetic blood.  And I would so be hanging out at Fangtasia!
2	1252627200	I hope the series gets better! I thought this book was poorly written in the sense that it was made very clear Sookie did not have an education, but kept using words that are on doctorate level casual conversation. The random "southern" phrases put in the book were confusing and I thought Sookie whined too much. She got mad over anything! Then would try to become a "firecracker" type of girl, but did not pull it off properly. I also wonder what type of relationships the suthor  must have had in her life. She seemed to put what should be done in a relationship, but not what really is. I do not know anyone who uses annoying pet names that often. Also, I have never thought guys were thinking that many awful thoughts about sex with me. Since reading this book I have asked some of my male friends if they actually think like that and the general consensus is: only if it is really bad. I like the story line, but don't think it has been written to best portray the book. I will read book 2 and see how that book is.
1	1252540800	Don't buy the collection without trying the first one out.  I LOVE the hbo show true blood.  And a friend told me these books were great.  So I wisely only bought the first to test it out.  Boy was that a great call.  This is possibly some of the worst writing I have ever read.  Every sentence starts with I,  She goes on an on describing hair, shoes, and cloths.  It honestly reads like a goth high school girl, with a poor education wrote this.  The only thing I got out of this book was a new found respect for the creators of the hbo show.  They must really be talented to turn this crappy book into such television gold.
4	1252368000	Fun read and interesting characters. Sookie isn't the perfectly likeable heroine that usually appear in these kind of novels. Her "condition" makes her very suspicious of others, and who wouldn't be? Reading others minds must be taxiing, and always knowing what persons think! Probably it would be a nightmare. Charlaine transmits this with honors. But our Sookie is a girl like most other girls...with her wet dreams over pretty guys, her search for true love, etc. The relationship with Bill is bliss for both and it's logic that they fell so fast. She is also quite fickle and judgmental.Some secondary characters rule: Sam, Bill and Eric specially. They could all have novels on their own.The mystery plot is quite obvious frankly, but nonetheless it is well constructed. The author gives clues to anyone who wants to try to find out the murderer (yes, there are murders) but its (probably)impossible to find out with any certainty until half of the book (give or take).The background's great; the discovery of synthetic Blood get the vampires in the open. Prejudice and severe social changes ensue. But our vampires aren't properly the nice guys that just want to find a belle...err...a love and live forever kissing and hugging. They are dangerous predators, and even our co-hero is extremely violent, capable of killing, using his power to dispense justice as He thinks its right!The less good parts: some situations are quite improbable; and if the supernatural creatures revelation continues at this pace, by the third book everyone Sookie knows is a supernatural/weird being. Most of the situations that many reviewers think that the author has great imagination are obvious rip offs of White Wolf World of Darkness...this includes blood bonds (same words, same concept), "blood dolls" (different name, same concept), vampire clubs (not invented by White Wolf, but definitely a trademark), vampire princes/rulers and mafia like hierarchy, etc, etc. Since 1991 White Wolf published more than a 1000 products for its World of Darkness (old and new), vampire with the most titles, and obviously they aproached almost all possible angle of this mythology...but is it that hard for the authors to acknowledge this source of inspiration???Concluding: read it. You will have a good plot, funny situations (two very comic indeed), characters that you will want to know more, interesting background. I will buy the next in the series...this is really just the beginning.
4	1252281600	The last book in the Twilight series left me with a bad taste - I had invested time in a series, that failed to truly deliver on characters and decent storylines, so thanks to other Amazon reviewers, I stumbled upon this book.This book is better developed, better written, with characters that you enjoy reading about and who don't whine all the time and spout nonsense!  The story of Sookie Stackhouse and her first foray into the world of vampires is entertaining and definitely geared more to an adult than the Twilight series.  There are some very similar themes and situations in both series (I think Stephenie Meyer definitely checked these books out prior to writing her novels) but you will find Dead until Dark to just be .....better.  That is the best way to describe it.Haven't seen the TV series, so cannot even begin to compare how it follows storylines - so this review is based solely on Book 1 of the Sookie Stackhouse series.  But this book was intriguing enough for me to read the next in the series and hope that the next book is just as entertaining.
4	1251936000	A friend of mine understood I was not a fan of the Twilight series due to the "cheese" factor, misguided immature emotions, and well - to be frank - horrible writing, recommended the Southern Vampire/True Blood series. Immediately, it was obvious Harris' writing is much more mature and eloquently written with a hint of subtle humour. Never once did I find myself rolling my eyes and groaning at something said in this vampire series. (I still roll my eyes when anyone mentions Edward and Bella.)What makes Dead Until Dark unique is the new spin on vampires. Sure they fit the stereotypes; they are dangerously strong with an insatiable thirst for blood. This time, however, vampires are relatively welcome into the world along side humans. They are free to roam the streets with acceptance (granted that they don't kill humans). In exchange, killing of vampires are illegal. Wondering how they roam around freely and not feed on humans? Scientists created a blood substitute freely available in most restaurants and bars. Although it's not 100% satisfying, it keeps their hunger at bay.Sookie is a small-time waitress whose weekends include cuddling up next to her cat and watching some movies.  Socializing is just much too exhausting, as she can read the minds of those around her and never has a moment of silence. One day, while at work, Bill (a vampire) walks into the bar. Sookie is immediately taken by him and the silence in her head when she's around him. It was in this moment, her life would change forever. Bill's life  (and her disability) drag her into a life much darker than she's ever known; this life of love, blood, and murder.For some reason, as short as the story essentially is (in pages), it took me a lot longer than normal to read it. It's not a book you can read with a TV on in the background as it's easy to get distracted. It never gave me that sense of "Oh my god - this is addicting! I must read more!" feeling although I did find it nicely written and entertaining. Because of my curiosity of the situation Sookie has gotten herself into, and character development, I will continue on to read some more in the series by Charlaine Harris.
3	1251936000	I loved True Blood, so I picked up the book.  I didn't like it nearly as much.  It's told in first person from Sookie's perspective, and she's really the only even partially developed character.  She's also not someone I like a lot.  She's too self-impressed and vain.  Overall the book was okay, even funny in some places, but in the future, I'll probably stick to the tv show.
4	1251849600	This book was very similar to the True Blood series on HBO. The difference is that you get a little more info. A few things are different (like the same thing that happened on the show only done by a different character). Also, there is no Tara to speak of....she isn't in the book!
5	1251763200	I stumbled upon this book for Kindle almost by accident, and I am so glad I did.  I feel as though Sookie is my new best friend: I can't wait to read the next book in the series! The energy between Sookie and Bill, Sookie and her boss......where is Sookie going to end up?  And with who?
5	1251676800	Read the whole set... sadly, it is all you'll want to do for 2 weeks!
1	1251590400	This is the second Charlaine Harris book I have read and will be the last.  I tried the first Aurora Teagarden book and now the first Sookie Stackhouse and found that Aurora and Sookie are basically the same unpleasant person. From this I have to conclude I won't like any other female lead created by this author.I sincerely hope that these characters are not representative of southern women.  They are both extremely vain, selfish, gratingly coquettish, simpering and shallow. Both describe themselves "sexually inexperienced" yet sex is all they think about, albeit in a 1940's junior high-school sort of way.  Both women also hold the attitude that "pretty women" get dates, describe themselves as pretty, but don't date very much. But, since neither is given to any introspection they never question their views or conceit.There are so many problems with this book that I truly can't believe its popularity.Sookie describes people who sleep with vampires as Fang-Bangers (a term I find in very poor taste) yet when she sleeps with a vampire its Love.In one section Sookie says she doesn't know much about vampires even something so basic as where they sleep. Then in a later scene she is cautioning Bill not to feed from a man with Sino Aids, giving a very specific exposition of what can and can't make a vampire ill and then saying Sino AIDS can make a vampire sick -  for a whole month (oh my!).Sookie thinks it only makes sense that Bill doesn't know how to rewire his house because he is so old. But, wouldn't being older and living through the switch from candles and wood fires to electricity give him more knowledge rather than less?Sookie doesn't feel she has the right to warn off people flirting with Bill when he takes her to a vampire bar (at her insistence) because she asked him rather than he asking her. Its not a date until the man asks the woman. Then in other sections Sookie makes comments about how old-fashioned Bill is.Sookie describes the contents of Bill's refrigerator as "yuck" since it is all blood. This is after she has willingly let him feed from her many times had his blood on more than one occasion.Then there is the whole Vampire Virus thing. She still believes in this after Bill tells her that if it vampirism is due to a virus it is a very discriminating one. And another time Bill describes in detail how a vampire is made, and nothing about a virus is mentioned. It doesn't even seem to sink in after Sam tells her straight out that Bill is dead.In another scene Sookie makes a mental note that she has been using the Lord's name in vain alot with the nuance that she should stop doing so. But repeated instances of necrophiliac fornication don't cause her any worry.At one point she even refers to vampirism as a religion.I like cozy mysteries and the writing doesn't have to be genius level, but I can't tolerate stupid.  Trust me, contrary to Sookie Stackhouse's denials she is stupid, the writing style childish and the story on the whole insipid.
5	1251504000	I was so hooked on Twilight and I wanted to read something different. This book is just as good , I love Sookie and Bill but I think Eric is my favorite
4	1251244800	Dead Until Dark by Charlaine Harris is first in the Sookie Stackhouse vampire mysteries. I had heard about these books but did not pick up one until I had become hooked on True Blood, the HBO series based on the Sookie Books. So then I had to join the Sookie Stackhouse Reading Challenge, hosted by Beth Fish Reads.Sookie Stackhouse is a young woman working in a bar in a small town in Louisiana, Bon Temps. Vampires live among humans, "out of the coffin", since the invention of a synthetic blood product. Sookie is a bit different from others as she has a "disability", she can hear people's thoughts. Then into the bar walks Vampire Bill and Sookie can't read his thoughts. She is immediately intrigued and after saving his life, and then he saves hers, they begin dating.Of course, no one approves, especially as women have been getting murdered, women known as fang-bangers as they sleep with vampires and let them suck their blood. Not only does Sookie have to deal with the trials of dating a vampire, but now someone is trying to kill her!Sookie is a great character, strong and independent and sassy. Bill is a very sexy vampire, despite some obvious flaws- he does occasionally feed on human blood. I'm not one for vampire fiction. I don't think I have read a vampire book since trying to read Anne Rice's Interview with the Vampire, which I did not finish. But I enjoyed this book and will be soon starting the next one, Living Dead in Dallas. It was a light and fun read, not a heavy plot, but still enjoyable. I'm not sure I will read all nine in the series, but I will keep you updated!
4	1251158400	In Dead Until Dark (Southern Vampire Mysteries, No. 1) by Charlaine Harris, readers are introduced to Sookie Stackhouse, a resident telepath, waitress, and spunky young woman, her brother Jason who has a revolving door in his bedroom, her boss Sam Merlotte, and of course, her vampire, Bill Compton. They all live in Bon Temps, Louisiana.(If you haven't watched the HBO series True Blood based upon this series of books you better get watching. But I digress.)Sookie and Bill meet at Merlotte's and they quickly fall into bed after some initial posturing. Readers should know where this relationship was headed from the way Sookie looks at Bill and the way Bill reacts to her presence. The plot is thick with sexual tension and drama, from the way Bill silently stares at Sookie to the way she feels at ease because she cannot hear Bill's thoughts and from the entrance of outrageous vampires from nearby Monroe to the murders of two fang-bangers.Dead Until Dark (Southern Vampire Mysteries, No. 1) will suck readers into the swampy, wooded south populated with vampires, telepaths, and more. Sookie is strong, hot tempered, loyal, and eager to help those in need, while Bill is her polar opposite, struggling to regain his humanity against his vampiric qualities. Like any good vampire story, there is a "love" triangle of sorts, murder, mayhem, and triumph. A good start to the series, which vampire/fantasy readers will love and other readers can enjoy as well.
4	1251158400	As far as murder mysteries go, I would not exactly categorize this one as "gripping".  The only reason I bought the book in the first place is because I am interested in watching the HBO series True Blood and as a general rule of thumb, I will never watch a show or movie unless I've read the book first.But back to my review: The characters in this story are so bizarre and diverse that I was completely distracted from what was actually going on, ie, the multiple murders of women who are known to enjoy sex with vampires in a small town in Louisiana.  Ostensibly this is an intriguing plotline but like I said, I spent more time fixated on how bizarre the characters were to even care or notice when the crimes were solved.Take for example the main character, Sookie Stackhouse.  Sookie is a telepathic waitress.  In the Deep South, idiosyncrasies such as telepathy are apparently viewed as "disabilities".  As a result, Sookie lives her life like someone suffering from Asperger's syndrome; completely awkward, introverted and skittish.  Then we have Bill, a vampire, and Civil War vet (yes Civil War) with an unbelievable libido.  Another odd one is Lafayette, the black cook at the bar where Sookie works, who for no reason relating to the story is a cross dresser.  The list goes on and to be fair, all of these characters do make for a fun, albeit jumbled reading experience.  I'm already well into the 2nd book of the series, loving it and I doubt I would love it half as much if I hadn't read this book.Overall a quirky read but sufficiently entertaining.Rating: 4 out of 5 starsSuggested With: A full bodied cocktail with pen and paper to keep everyone straight!
4	1250985600	I tried to read this series several months ago and couldn't get into it, but a friend insisted I try it again. Partly driven by her recommendation, and partly by the fact that I love the HBO series True Blood (which is based on the Southern Vampire series), I did.  This time it hooked me and now I have something akin to a full-fledged addiction to the series.  Dead Until Dark falls into a category I like to call "literary crack."  It is an entertaining page-turner, and after a few short chapters you'll find yourself falling in love with the characters and the town.  It is better written than much of the vampiric fluff that is out there right now, but if you are looking for something with the depth of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles, you will be disappointed.Dead Until Dark is an engaging story about Sookie Stackhouse, who is something of a telepathic mystery.  She can read thoughts and emotions, but in the first book of the series, we are not sure to what end.  The book is set in the town of Bon Temps, LA, in a time when vampires walk among humans and survive off "True Blood" which is a synthetic blood alternative.  Sookie's life is drastically changed one night when she comes to the aid of a vampire who has been attacked outside the bar where she works.  The vampire was captured by a couple who makes a living catching and draining vampires to sell the blood on the black market.  Not surprisingly, Sookie and the vampire (Bill) fall in love, and thus begins the romantic thread that runs in the background (and occasionally forefront) of Dead Until Dark. Supernatural things and suspicions abound when a series of murders rocks the small town.  The victims are all "fang-bangers" or... vampire lovers.  Is Sookie in danger?  Of course!  Using her telepathic ability and her keen intuition, Sookie tries to discover who is behind the murders while trying to avoid becoming the next victim.The characters in the story are likeable and have chemistry - particularly Bill and Sookie - and the book was a delightful read.  As soon as I finished the first, I tore into the second in the series (which you will also enjoy if you like this one).  Dead Until Dark is essentially the season one plot of True Blood, so if you're reading the books before watching the show, expect some spoilers.  There are some minor storyline changes, particularly when it comes to Tara and other supporting characters, but overall the stories are remarkably similar.  I read the books before I watched finished season one of True Blood, but I didn't feel anything was lost by knowing the ultimate outcome.  Both the book and the tv show are entertaining in their own right.
5	1250726400	I bought this book after I finished the Twilight series, not knowing what to do with myself.  haha.  Being that I am in my 30's, this book brought those extra "adult issues" that was missed in the Twilight books (being that they probably were not aimed at adults.)  I am now hooked on these ones!!
3	1250640000	I wanted to read one of the Sookie Stackhouse novels before checking out the HBO series "True Blood," which is based on the novels of Charlaine Harris. I wasn't super impressed with "Dead Until Dark," and I doubt I'll read any of the other books in this series.The book is poorly written, and the story revolves around a naive but likable southern waitress named Sookie, who doesn't date much because of her curious little talent of being able to read other people's minds. Along comes Bill, a super hot vampire dude who Sookie immediately becomes smitten with. Throw in a bunch of gruesome murders and some trashy vampire sex scenes, and that's basically what the book amounts to. I just didn't think the book lived up to the hype surrounding it. If you want to read a truly great vampire novel (besides "Dracula," of course), check out "The Historian" by Elizabeth Kostova...don't waste your time with these mediocre Sookie books.
5	1250553600	This is a lot of fun to read! Harris blends the supernatural with a mystery plot quite well here - and though I spoiled the mystery for myself by first watching the first season ofTrue Blood: The Complete First Season (Blu-ray/DVD Combo + Digital Copy), it did not in any way detract from the fun time I had reading this book! Sookie's telepathic powers are handled much better in the book, and add a lot more depth and dimension not only to her character, but to the other characters she encounteres. Though HBO does a very good job of adapting this to the television screen, there are some major differences. Tara's role, in particular stands out. Despite her large role on the show, she does not even appear in this first novel! Which is rather a shock. The show draws out the pacing a bit more and has more cliffhangers, so with its greater action, is perhaps a bit more thrilling. But, the show doesn't manage to capture all of the atmospheric details, and is a much more fascinating piece of entertainment.  Personally, in both the show and book, I prefer Sam to Vampire Bill. The second season has not been released on HBO, but I am quite excited to see where the books will go. I hope that HBO will follow Showtime's pattern with the Dexter books, which stays close to the novel's plots in the beginning before diverging into a different direction. This allows for both formats to be enjoyed with plenty of surprises all around!
4	1250467200	So... this kicks Twilight's ass.  Don't get me wrong, I loved Twilight.  However, there were plot holes and things that didn't make sense in that series and the heroine, Bella, was at times infuriating for being so immature and such a pushover.  Sookie is a grownup, and acts like it.  She has a weird sense of humor and isn't afraid to shut her man-vamp down if he's being irrational.  In short, Twilight is meant for teenagers while this series is meant for adults.
5	1250467200	I really enjoyed this book. I loved the characters and it was very fast paced. An easy and enjoyable read.
4	1250380800	Since the debut of True Blood on HBO--led by the ravishing Anna Paquin--I could not help but to see what inspired such a brilliant television series and cracked open this first novel.First off, I want to say that I was disappointed a little by the absence of a good deal of captivating characters in the television series. Namely, the cook Lafayette Reynolds and coworker Tara Thornton make excellent additions by HBO, who wanted to complement the main cast with an lush supporting cast, and had done so brilliantly.  The characters are in keeping with the book descriptions, and while they are often inserted into scenes in which the book does not offer them, I miss them dearly while reading this book. The Southern Vampire Mysteries focuses intensely on Sookie and Bill and for that I am a little unfulfilled.This does not lead me to leave this book at four stars; I cannot blame Charlaine Harris for what came afterwards, at least not consciously.  However, while a thoroughly enjoyable read, I did not find it captivating. I am not immune to the steam arrising from the books during the sex scenes. They are descriptive and hot--steam rises from those pages as I read some of these scenes. I am bemused at the fact that these novels do not have half a shirtless man on the front cover, but that would warrant constant explanations from my coworkers and family, and for that I guess I should be grateful.It is not without it entertaining twists and plot developments; perhaps the reality behind my four stars is that I am not generally interested in mystery novels.  However, I will continue to read this series, as her works interest me enough to read the last page and desire to read more about the comely Sookie. Vampire novels always fascinate me.
5	1250208000	She has a way of making you care about her characters that I haven't seen many writers achieve.
5	1250208000	big fan of the hbo series true blood and the book did not disappoint - it's slightly different than the series (better in my opinion) but definitely worth reading.  my iten arrived quickly and was in the condition the seller said it was.
2	1250208000	I'm more than 3/4 through with the book and I can barely bring myself to finish it. It's not funny. It's not exciting. It hasn't drawn me in. I don't care about the characters (could be that with the True Blood trailers plastered all over TV, I keep picturing the gap-toothed heroine, who I don't particularly care for).I'm fighting to finish the book. I doubt I'll continue the series.What was with Sookie doubling over with laughter after she found her grandmother dead...would you have even noticed Bill's shirt if you found your grandmother murdered? What's with Sookie thinking she'll read Sam sometime, when she catches him off guard...then telling Bill she's not able to read him? What's with all the slutty trailer trash in that town? Sorry to those of you that are fans, but I'm just not getting it.
5	1250035200	Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress at Merlotte's Bar in the small town of Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Even though vampires had officially "come out of the coffin" two years ago after the Japanese developed a synthetic blood that allows them to live without biting humans, Sookie hadn't seen a real vamp until Bill Compton walked into Merlotte's and sat at her table.  Sookie was pretty but she didn't date because she had what she called a "disability" -- Sookie reads minds, whether she wants to or not.  It's a bit hard to try to get intimate with a guy when you know he's thinking your butt is too big.  But she is amazed and delighted to discover that she can't read Bill's mind at all, and the peace alone would have attracted her, even if he hadn't been a very handsome undead guy.  Their relationship soon sets tongues to wagging all over Bon Temps, and when one of Sookie's coworkers turns up dead, Sookie has more troubles when her brother ends up on the top of the list of prime suspects.This opening shot was spot on and I really enjoyed it.  It's filled with humor and written with a light touch.  The characters are quite unique and seeing this world through Sookie's eyes is a very enjoyable way to get to know it.
3	1250035200	This genre is something I have not been interested in over ten years.  I went through a Poppy Z Brite phase years ago, but moved on to mostly Non-Fiction and Beat writers. A person who's taste in books I very mush respect INSISTED I check these out, and even forced this title as well as Living Dead In Dallas into my hands as they were waving "Nooooooo".  I am a rebel in that way-if there is a series of books that are all the rage, I fight the temptation until it's "sooo last week."  But that's not why you are reading this review, you want to know if it's worth a gander.Like another reviewer stated, I found myself reading this whenever I could find the time. It wasn't like my usual relationship with a book I can't put down-the writing isn't poetic, the plot is simple yet twisted, the characters are just your average folks in a small town.  A lot of them reminded me of people I knew in my own hometown. They seem to dress the same too. Somehow it sucked me in, I wasn't moved but I could not wait to find out what happened next.  Harris has definitely got a knack for mystery. She held my attention for longer than five minutes, and that is a gift.Here's an analogy that describes my over all opinion of the book.  You are sitting in a lovely restaurant eating the most decadent piece of Tiramisu you have ever put in your mouth.  Your salivary glands tingle, you close your eyes and savor every morsel.  You leave satisfied with your belly full and tell all your friends that they just have to go to this restaurant. This book isn't like that.  It's more like sitting on your couch zoning on the TV with a an addicting bag of chips.
3	1250035200	I fell in love with the True Blood series on HBO, but I don't have a TV, so I have to wait for season 2 to finish and then come out on DVD before I can see it. I bought this first book in the series to bide my time. I read a lot of the reviews for it on here before making the decision to purchase it. I went into it with no expectation, and so was not let down. I enjoyed reading it, but it wasn't particularly amazing. Some of the sex stuff was TMI and freakish, but it wasn't every other page, so I could handle it. Yes, she does frequently describe what Sookie is wearing, but I didn't find it as annoying as I expected. I found it mostly in line with other stuff I've read. I enjoyed seeing the small difference in plot between the book and the show, and I must say the show is much better. If you really like True Blood, and want to give these books a try, I say go for it, but just don't expect it to be as good. If you gobble up anything vampire-related, then you will probably love these books. I hope you find this helpful.
3	1249948800	I know these books are a huge hit, but I really don't see why.  I got pretty bored halfway through the book but pushed on to see how it turned out--I'll have to say there were a couple of real surprises at the end.  I prefer Ms. Harris' "Grave" book series. Harper Connally is a much better protagonist than Sookie. I meant to give this two stars, not three, but can't seem to change that.
5	1249603200	I'll admit it up front - the buzz I heard about this book [[ASIN:0441018254 Dead Until Dark: A Sookie Stackhouse Novel (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood)], about the over-sexed characters, a flashy made-from show on HBO and the sensational topic of vampirism made me disinclined to like, much less love, this book. But then an article in Entertainment Weekly made me open my mind, enough to buy a cheap used copy.Boy, was I wrong. It's GOOD! I hang my head in shame.Dead Until Dark kicks off a lengthy series of novels which focus on the relationship between Sookie, a woman beleagured by her ESP (e.g., in bed, who wants to know a lover thinks you've gained weight?), and the sturdily named vampire next door (next door being separated by a cemetery, natch), Bill Compton, who's been around since 1840 and a "vamp" since 1870.Author Harris has brilliantly created a world in which traditional Southern customs are observed (iced tea, anyone?) while vampirism has become politically correct: It's caused by a virus and those affected are victims, protected by law. In Compton's case, since he also was a soldier in the Confederate Army he's asked to speak at a meeting of the Daughters of the Glorious Revolution (or some name like that).Both Sookie and Compton have friends, some dubious, and both have the hots for one another. While they're getting to know one another two young women are killed, possibly in vamp attacks (the ladies were known to pick up vamps at vamp bars, and some vamps get carried away during lovemaking). Two horrible sociopaths are also found dead, supposedly the victims of a phantom tornado, and Sookie's widely beloved gradmother is killed viciously, possibly by a killer who meant his attack for Sookie.While there is all this melodrama developing (and I left a lot out), Sookie maintains an almost obsessive attitude to find the humor in any situation, however dark.  All in all, a unique creation that transcends "chick lit" and sci fi for a true page-turner of an experience. No doubt I'll reread the book soon to catch the details I missed as I sped along.
5	1249603200	i loved the idea of vampires tying to mix with humans and the addition of a mind reading waitress and shapeshifter mixed into a murder mystery made for an entertaining book.
5	1249603200	I bought Dead Unitl Dark after watching a few episodes of the True Blood Series, and I'm hooked!  I LOVE the Sookie Stackhouse series.  I highly recommend it!
5	1249516800	I have heard many people down this book and say they are bad and sookie is shallow for how she describes her self on the first page but they are all wrong. this book is really great (and so is books 2-8) the only book from this series I hear bad things about (even from fans of the series) is number 9 and possibly 10 (I dunno about 10 yet since it hasn't been released yet). But truly a great series!
4	1249344000	Urban fantasy usually takes place in, you know, urban areas. Cities, big towns, and places where vampires and weres creep in dank alleys.But Charlaine Harris took a slightly different approach in the first novel of the Sookie Stackhouse series, "Dead Until Dark." While it has many of the genre staples -- werebeasties, vampires and superspeshul humans -- this series is solidly entrenched in warm Southern charm, humor and mellow mystery.In an alternate world where vampires have revealed themselves to the populace (courtesy of bottled faux-blood), waitress Sookie Stackhouse can read minds, which is more of a curse than a blessing.But when she encounters vampire Bill Compton, she discovers that she is unable to read vampire minds. Unfortunately she's run afoul of some vile people who want to cruelly drain Bill of his blood, so she charges out to save "the vampire Bill" from his silver bonds and blood-draining. They're mutually intrigued, and an odd little romance starts to bloom.But then Sookie's life is overturned by some supernatural personal problems -- a coworker dies with fang marks on her thigh, and her grandmother is viciously muredred. And as she tries to find the murderer, Sookie finds that the supernatural world is a lot more complicated -- and close to home -- than she ever dreamed."Dead Until Dark" does a great job of avoiding the usual pitfalls of urban fantasy -- it's not all doom'n'gloom, gothic pomposity and angst. In fact, Harris has a fun time spoofing it with the wannabe-seductive, cheesily-dressed "fang-bangers ". Instead, it's soaked in down-home Southern charm, the pleasant little town of Bon Temps, and a generally mellow, relaxed atmosphere.Of course, it doesn't stop Harris from piling on gruesome murders and some truly nasty people, both vampire (the vampire gang crashing at Bill's house) and human (the "Rats"). Her style is warm, steady and mildly tongue-in-cheek ("the traditional capes and tuxes for the men to many Morticia Adams ripoffs among the females"), but there are some decidedly bleak moments and moral dilemmas woven in there.Sookie is a likable character -- an unpretentious and no-nonsense waitress who doesn't go looking for trouble, but whose telepathic talents often draw it to her. And Harris handles some horrible topics through her, such as her childhood molestation and her bickering with her slutty, not-too-bright brother.The supporting characters are also pretty well-drawn -- her kindly boss Sam turns out to have his own supernatural secret (werecollies!), the gorgeous golden Viking Eric, and her lovable Grandmother. Bill is a rather bland character as love interests go, but Harris does give him a great sense of chilly "otherness" and great age ("It's hard for me to get used to young ladies with so few clothes on")."Dead Until Dark (Southern Vampire Mysteries, No. 1)" is a solid, pleasantly down-home little urban fantasy, with lots of vampires, the odd shapeshifter, and some nasty little murder mysteries. Fun little urban fantasy book.
4	1249344000	I love the HBO Series True Blood, so I read the reviews on Amazon to decide if I should read this book.  People seemed to say good things, so I went for it.  I had just finished the first Twilight book and thought I might gouge my eyes out- it was poorly written and had a terrible plot.  I was hoping this book would be better.Dead Until Dark is definitely better that Twilight.  There's a good plot, and rather than Twilight author's fifth-grade writing-level, it seems to be written by a High School Junior...  Two glaring mistakes in the last few chapters were using "less" instead of "fewer" and "loose" instead of "lose" -- pretty annoying if you're a member of the grammar police.The TV show's plot is better than the book's, but I like finding out all of the little details that a TV show just doesn't have time to cover.  I'll probably keep reading the books, even though the writing frustrates me.  It's definitely not mentally challenging stuff- I'm just enthralled with the characters (just like the author).
3	1249171200	This is worth reading for one reason and one reason only: if you like the TV series, then go ahead and give this book a read. I can't say this enough, Charlaine Harris is a crappy, pulp writer that happened to hit upon a pretty good idea. She is in no way a good enough writer for this idea. Ugh. I just wish someone that was a decent author had written this series.
2	1249084800	Having seen a few episodes of HBO's "True Blood," I was curious to read the books that inspired the series. I was extremely disappointed in this book, though. Harris' dialogue is painfully awful, and her writing is very amateurish. Her tendency to describe every little thing Sookie does/thinks is unnecessary and one of the biggest no-no's in fiction writing.I like the idea of the plot and the characters, but Harris' writing style is simply too bad for me to continue reading the series. I'm glad the writers of the show have taken their liberties with the dialogue, otherwise I'm sure the show would have been cancelled by now.
3	1249084800	I love the HBO True Blood, and that's why i wanted to read the first book. The book is really great and HBO did change some thing in the book.
4	1248998400	I read DEAD UNTIL DARK one afternoon while I was at the shore. Beth Fish Reads told me that it was an ideal beach read, and she was so right. This book is a light, quick read that held my attention throughout. I absolutely love Sookie and I was pleased with how well Ms. Harris developed her character. I think my feelings toward Sookie are the main reason that I want to read more books in this series. I guess I just like "spending time" with her!I also really liked the secondary characters in this story, especially Bill and Sam. I have a feeling that they are both going to be appearing in future books, and I can't wait to learn more about their relationships with Sookie. Both seem to have some secrets and I am excited to learn more about both of them. Right now, I'm not entirely sure about either of them; but based on this book, I think I like both of them. And I'm pretty sure that they are going to make things interesting in Sookie's life.Another element I really enjoyed about this book was the mystery angle. I was anxious to find out who the villain was, and I admit that I was caught off guard a little. While I enjoyed learning about vampires and their lifestyles, I think I really appreciated the book because of the mystery storyline. I thought Ms. Harris did a good job building suspense, and she definitely kept things interesting with the twists and turns.One thing that actually surprised me a little bit about this book was how graphic it was. Not surprisingly, there was lots of gore and talk about all things vampire. However, there was also quite a bit of sex-talk. I don't consider myself a prude, but I admit that I was blushing a bit while reading some of the scenes!I have not watched the HBO series TRUE BLOOD which is based on the Sookie books, but I have heard so many terrific things about it from my friends. After reading DEAD UNTIL DARK, I'm thinking about catching up with Season 1 on Netflix. My husband has already told me that he's not interested in watching it with me so that makes it a little more difficult; however, I'm thinking that it just might be worth it.I definitely recommend DEAD UNTIL DARK if you are a fan of the whole vampire thing or even if you enjoy a good mystery! I am so looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
4	1248998400	If I had seen this book in a book store and picked it up, I would have probably read the back cover and put it back on the shelf. It just didn't sound that interesting.But having seen HBO's True Blood I went looking for this title to see what I was missing. Turns out I've been missing a lot! Harris, in this and other books in the series, has built an entire alternate world of vampires, werewolves, shapeshifters and other beasties that go bump in the night (and often in the bedroom).While these books are mysteries, at least on the surface, there are other elements in play here as well. There's romance, a few scares here and there, an interesting look at how Harris structures the vampire hierarchy, and even a good bit of humor. It's the humor that sets the books apart from the HBO series. While True Blood has its moments of dark humor, the books tend to be more upfront with their use of humor ... something which gives the books and the TV series distinctly different flavors.This is quickly becoming one of my favorite mystery series. Heck, it's becoming one of my favorite series. Period!
3	1248998400	Welcome to the small town of Bon Temps in Louisiana, where a mid twenty, blonde, blue-eyed waitress named Sookie Stackhouse calls home. But she's no ordinary waitress, she has a disability. She's a telepath. This makes life a little difficult for Sookie, particularly the dating part. Imagine `hearing' all your dates thoughts, not always a desirable thing, especially if there scrutinizing you.Then one day a stranger arrives in town. He is tall, dark and handsome. And the best part is that, unlike everyone else, Sookie cannot hear his thoughts. But he is not perfect; he is pale, fanged and dead. Enter Bill Compton, vampire.What follows is a fun and entertaining story, mixing romance, mystery and vampires, as Sookie and Bill begin a relationship, attempt to solve a number of murders that have coincidently occurred with the arrival of Bill into town, not to mention land her brother in jail, and also begins for her a new, and somewhat unwanted, career with the vampires of Louisiana.It's an enjoyable and effortless read, a book you can easily lose yourself in.
4	1248912000	I probably wouldn't have been as interested in this book if I hadn't gotten hooked on the HBO series. I found it to be a very entertaining read. There were things missing from the book that the HBO show made up, and things not covered in the series that the book touched on. So between the two of them, I enjoyed the story, but either as a stand-alone would leave me wanting.I'll definitely keep reading and watching.
4	1248825600	Okay. I had to start reading these sometime, and sometime turned out to be now. We had one of those "free trial periods" of HBO a while back, and saw the first episode of True Blood, based on Charlaine Harris's novels. But we weren't impressed. Of course, we weren't planning to keep / pay for HBO, so perhaps we weren't intending to be impressed. But the rows of books in the bookstores, and the myriad reviews on gather persuaded me; I had to find out about these characters.And now I'm hooked.I can't say whether the books are better than the TV show, though I normally prefer reading to watching TV--it's that urge for independence. But I do know that the first few pages of Dead Until Dark did an excellent job of drawing me in. Sookie's voice is rendered very plausibly, and while I might not consider her skills a disability, the author does an excellent job of portraying Sookie's problems with them. A huge cast of characters is kept neatly in order, no mean feat in itself, and the stage is set for more characters and more histories to be revealed.I loved the scene where the vampire describes war to the civilized ladies' group. I loved the all too plausible concept of "fangbangers." And when Sookie fussed about her wardrobe, I loved wishing she could see a little further.Ms Harris does a nice job of adding to the vampire mythology without subtracting from it. Her vampires are dangerous. They really don't go out in daylight, though Sookie's not entirely sure where they sleep. They have histories and suffer pain. And they're not human, a fact that Vampire Bill keeps trying to make clear.Not quite human, but not that far from human either; mainstreaming is such a lovely idea, and Charlaine Harris's mainstreaming vampire is a treat to get to know through his dear friend Sookie.So yes, I expect I'll be reading more of these, and enjoying more not-quite-human fun.
3	1248739200	I bought this book for an entertaining read on my 4 hour flight to Texas. Not really the type to read vampire/mystery/romance, I was really only looking forward to the humor in this book, it seemed like it would be very fun. The beginning was SO hard to get into. Ms. Harris uses a very poor and unbelievable plot device to get Sook closer to Bill, but I plowed through, hoping for it to get better, and it did, to an extent. Things I mainly disliked about this book were the reactions to people's deaths. No one really took much notice, despite the town being so small that everyone knows everyone- I'd think, even in the case of hated neighbors, that reactions should be just a tad heartfelt. But that's just my feelings. Other than that, the sex scenes were laughable and embarrassing.Unlike other reviewers, I found the writing style itself engaging. Sookie is a good character, and normally I dislike first-person, but I found it very well done in this book. Also, there was a good deal of really good humor in here, I laughed out loud at some points.The ending gave me chills, but I thought it unfair that there weren't more clues as to who the murderer was.All in all, I did enjoy this book, and have read a few of the others. Unfortunately, it seems those points which I dislike have maintained throughout the series.
5	1248566400	This was a fun read, not dark like some of the vampire books.  I just ordered the second in the series. I hope it stays light-hearted yet interesting.  I really enjoyed the book and honestly can't believe they are only charging $6 something for it.
3	1248566400	Upfront I will say that before I read Dead Until Dark I had seen Season 1 of True Blood so it was an exercise in compare and contrast for me. And this is one of those rare cases where I liked the show a bit more than the original source material, the book. But no matter, I still enjoyed the book and am excited to continue reading the series and watching the series to see what other kinds of adventures Sookie gets into. I've tried to close my ears to spoilers but a few minor things have gotten through and they sound exciting to me!While Season 1 of True Blood follows the same basic plot it was interesting to see the few differences, who was present for what and even a few characters that were a bit different or not even present in the book. Since the book is told from Sookie's perspective and the show follows all the characters around you hear everything straight from Sookie in the books. I think that made it a bit harder to get to know all of characters as well as you do on the show, but at the same time makes Sookie more lovable because you are with her the whole time. I love the world that the author has created, vampires living out in the open with humans and whatever else exists in her world!Overall a great start to a series and introduction to a world. I can't wait to read ahead of True Blood and enjoy the books before the show!
3	1248480000	Not as good as the show but more or less enjoyable to read if you're a True Fan. Southern vampires, mind-reading waitresses, and lots of sex. Plus a killer on the loose for good measure. Murder mystery, romance novel, and vampire story all mashed together- just like the cascade of people's thoughts in the heroine's head!
4	1248220800	What Twilight lacked, Charlaine Harris made up for in Dead Until Dark. This series is definitely for mature audiences because the plot is dark and contained some erotic scenes. I loved the first book after my husband begged me to read it to try and curb me from my Twilight obsession. The first chapter was a bit slow but it did give you a nice picture of Bon Temps and the characters. About 3 chapters in I couldn't put it down. I immediately fell in love with Sookie & Bill and their adventure in this first installment.Afterwards I watched season 1 of True Blood and while the plot followed the book, there are more character lines in the HBO series (ie Tara).
5	1248134400	Well the main reason I decided to read Dead Until Dark was because of the True Blood series on HBO, plus it was recommended to me by people from here and a few sites I belong to. I think I put off reading the book because I thought I wasn't in the mood for any more Vampires. This book is nothing like what I expected, which is a good thing. I found myself laughing out loud or having to stop myself from laughing to loud since I was reading it at work.Dead Until Dark is the first book in a series by Charlaine Harris. I do not know exactly how many books there are going to be. I believe there are about 7 books in the series right now. The main character of the book is Sookie Stackhouse who is a small time cocktail waitress in a small town in Louisiana. She has a 'disability' that does frighten some people of Bon Temp. Sookis is able to read minds. Her disability makes it hard for her to have a relationship with men until she meets Bill one night at the bar that she works. Bill is a vampire and she is able to drop her guard when she is around him which she loves because of all the silence.One of Sookie's co-workers is murdered and people think it is Sookie's vampire doing all the killing because the first girl that is murdered has old bite marks. Sookie fears she is the next one on the murderers list.I found myself not wanting to stop reading the book. I would finish a chapter and find myself starting the next one right away. I enjoyed reading this book and seeing the vampires portrayed in a different way then what I read in the Twilight books. No sparkly vampires in this book.5 stars
4	1247961600	After finishing the Twilight series I was looking for my next book read and happened upon the Sookie Stackhouse series.  The reviews on Amazon's website convinced me I needed to give it a try.  I found the first book very entertaining and such a fast read!  Gotta love that!!! The storyline is silly but for some reason I couldn't put it down.  I've finsihed her 1st and 2nd book and will be purchasing the 3rd shortly.
4	1247702400	STORY BRIEF:Sookie is a cocktail waitress who can read minds.  She's never had a boyfriend because her mind reading spoils things.  The locals view her as an oddity.  Vampires openly exist among humans.  Many of them drink purchased synthetic blood.  They are allergic to sunlight, silver and garlic.  They sleep during the day.  Most vampires live in areas separate from humans, but some choose to live within human communities.  They experience some prejudice from humans.  Vampire Bill visits the bar where Sookie works.  They begin a relationship.  Someone is murdering local women.  Bill and Sookie's brother Jason are suspects.REVIEWER'S OPINION:The first half was terrific.  Many good lines, lots of chuckles, good wit.  Some things surprised me.  The last half felt more ordinary.  It was mostly solving the murder mystery.  This is the first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series with 10 books published by the end of 2009.  The series is the basis for the popular HBO show "True Blood."  At the moment, I'm not drawn in enough to buy the sequels, but I think many readers will like this world.There is another character Sam Merlotte who intrigued me.  I'd be interested in reading a book about his story, but I couldn't find one within the series.DATA:Story length: 312 pages.  Swearing language: strong.  Sexual language: moderate to strong.  Number of sex scenes: 5.  Total number of sex scene pages: 8.  Setting: Bon Temps in rural northern Louisiana and New Orleans.  Copyright: 2001.  Genre: paranormal romance.
5	1247529600	I'm hooked on the tv show that is based on these books, so I decided to give the book a try. Its a very enjoyable read, mostly written from the "Sookie" character's point of view. I'll definitely be purchasing the other books from this series.
1	1247443200	I bought this book after watching True Blood on HBO. My recommendation is watch HBO or buy the DVD but don't waste money on the book. The plot is choppy, transition is bad. Half the time I don't even understand why Sookie is mad at Bill. She seems to be having PMS 365 days. Poor writing style.
4	1247443200	If you've watched any of the Trueblood HBO broadcasts and enjoyed them pick up Charlaine Harris' Dead Until Dark and read about Sookie Stackhouse as she is better in the books than the TV series portrayal. Sookie in the books is clever, wise and sensible. While Anna P. from the TV series is good our written version of Sookie is better! Bill continues to smolder, Eric is complicated (see Dead to the World) and Charlaine Harris doesn't disappoint; with each book our authoress takes her original plot idea and builds upon it in a believable way, her characters are rich and individual and while the TV show has gone in its own divergent path (very differently from the books) I'm pleased that HBO realized that Charlaine Harris' work is better than Twilight!
5	1247443200	This is a very good book, an interesting world where Vampires have made their existance known and are living almost side by side with humans.  Sookie Stackhouse has been waiting to meet one since they came out.  I believe the old saying is true, be careful what you wish for.  There are so many interesting characters living in this world.  Bill the Vampire, along with Eric and Pam.  Sookie's boss and co-workers also her family members. If you want a good read this is the book for you.
5	1247184000	Great book, nice plot. If you watch the show TrueBlood, you will be a bit disappointed, the show is loosely based on the book. By far, the books are better!
4	1247184000	I'm a late bloomer to the True Blood series.  I watched Season 1 on DVD just in time to get in on Season 2.  I loved the series so I wanted to read the books it spawned from.  Dead Until Dark is the first. And though there are extreme differences between the series and the book, I still thought it was a good read.  In some cases, I thought the plot twists in the series were even better than what's in the book, but like I said, still a good read.Charlaine Harris writes in a very simple manner that's easy to relate to, sometimes too easy if you are a more complex mystery reader.  I am not. I finished this book in just 6 days.  I stumbled on some of the dialogue in some places and found several instances where the editing could have been a little better, but overall I'd still recommend this book to anyone who is looking for a good, light, but juicy read...especially for anyone who likes vampires.You can't help but compare Charlaine to Anne Rice since her story also takes place in New Orleans.  Charlaine even mentions Anne's vampires in a few places in the book, paying tribute to them.  But Charlaine's cast of characters are completely different and are more like real people who could exist in the world today.  So overall, in the story itself there's no comparison.Those who have watched the series, I'll warn that some characters in the series are not in the book.  Others are much more less developed.  Maybe they get more page time in the other books in the series.  But for the first book, it was a pleasure to see Charlaine introduce and develop Sookie and Bill and really focus on them while giving them a slight mystery to be involved in.If you haven't watched the series and know nothing about True Blood, you'll definitely eat the book up!  For those who are reading the books for the first time and have watched the show, just be warned...it's close to being the same, but there are indeed parts and characters that are completely different.  It's still a "bloody" good time though!
4	1247011200	It's not the best books series ever. But I've read far worse. If you're looking for fiction that makes you think -- this isn't it. Books like this are what I call brain candy. They're the kinds of books you pick up to read on the plane, while hanging out next to the pool or at the beach. They don't require excessive thought. They're just fun stories meant to mildly entertain the reader. And while I have nothing against more cerebral fiction, I do like a good brain candy book every now and again. This story has everything - the supernatural, vampires, sex (and lots of it), and it's interesting enough to keep you turning the pages. This first one was good enough to make me want to buy the second to keep around for light reading. If I like that one, I'll buy the third etc...  So whether you'll like this book or not is going to depend a lot on the type of reader you are. If you're looking for serious fiction -- you may not care for this series. If you're looking for something light and fun -- it may be for you.
5	1246924800	What can I say other than I love this book! I have read the whole series ans they are all amazing, I'm hooked on the storylines and I love the characters. I think it is so much more fun than Twilight, although I love that too.
5	1246838400	Dead until Dark introduces Sookie Stackhouse into the world of Vampires. Now Our Heroine is not just your ordinary barmaid in a small Louisiana Town.  She is not "physic" as she tells her best friend all the time, she just hears the thoughts of everyone around her - all the time.In the door Walks Tall, Dark and Dead - Vampire Bill - and Sookies life is changed forever, and not always in a good way.  She loves being with Vampires because she can't hear their thoughts.  Her world is silent when she is with Vampire Bill.  She gets a break from the noise she constantly hears.She also becomes the target of someone killing the women in Bon Temps who have associated with Vampires.  Her Narcissistic brother, Jason, becomes the number one suspect as the killer as her has been intimate with most of the women that are killed. Her Grandmother is excited because she can have a guest come to her club and speak about the "Great Unpleasantness" who was actually there.  Vampire Bill attends the public meeting and discusses the war between the states and the effects it had on his life and those from Bon Temp. Things begin to unravel at that point. This book is suspenseful, sarcastic, and fun.  It's riveting.My book club began with this book and have read every subsequent book in this series since.  I'm proud to be the person in our group that found the book and requested that we add it to our list of books to read as a group way back in 2001.  We all love the series and have begun to collect the whole series in Hardbound books (that makes only the first three books for most of us).
5	1246838400	I read this on the kindle dx. I loved the book. I downloaded a sample chapter and read it while I was in the middle of another book. (I have a one book rule, or I never read all the ones I buy). I couldn't wait to get to the end of the book I was reading, to start this one. I like that it has some of the traditional vampire lore in it (garlic, sunlight, silver etc.) Its a love story and a mystery story rolled into one. I will read the next in the series. I'm glad the kindle has whispernet so I don't have to drive anywhere or wait til I can go to the next book!
5	1246579200	I have been watching True Blood and LOVE it so I decided to read the books as well.  I was very impressed.  The books are really good. This book was very exciting and it was fun to read the details that are missing from the series. I really am not that in to vampires but this story is just charming,new, and just addicting.
5	1246233600	I just love vampire novels.  "Twilight" was a hit with me (as it was with many), so when I stumbled upon Charlaine Harris's Southern Vampire Mysteries, I was tickled beyond belief.  Of course, being introduced to a new author always has its risks.  Will she make it readable, believable?  Will she keep me interested?  Will her characters live and breathe or will they stay strictly within the confines of their pages?After reading this book in less than two days (a lofty goal for me, considering I stay home with two young children), I have my answer. Harris had me at her first sentence: "I'd been waiting for the vampire for years when he walked into the bar."  It was at that point that I realized with utter certainty that I'm going to DEVOUR this series."Dead Until Dark", the first publication in Harris's Southern Vampire Mysteries which has spawned nine books thus far (the tenth will be released in October), follows the travails of telepathic bar waitress Sookie Stackhouse (a memorable name, no doubt) and her subsequent romance with a vampire named Bill Compton.  A blond-haired, blue-eyed beauty in her mid-20's, Sookie eschews the dating scene due to her self-described "disability" - the cacophony of people's thoughts drives her mad and she has avoided taking a lover for that very reason ("Can you imagine knowing everything your sex partner is thinking?  Right.  Along the order of `Gosh, look at that mole...her butt is a little big...wish she'd move to the right a little...why doesn't she take the hint and...?'  You get the idea.").  On top of that, vampires and other creatures that go bump in the night have become commonplace in Bon Temps, the sleepy Louisiana town where Sookie resides.  When she rescues Bill one evening from a duo of Drainers (people who steal and sell vampire blood for its regenerative and Viagra-like properties), she finds that she cannot read his mind, a relief to her and a source of attraction.  Bill appears aloof at first but is deeply entranced by Sookie and it doesn't take long for the sexual tension between them to build, as well as the element of danger.  Someone is offing some of the town's more promiscuous female citizens but when the perpetrator begins to target Sookie as well as her family, she begins utilizing her mind-reading abilities to solve the mystery, making of herself a rare brand of detective for the supernatural population as well as her fellow humans.Unlike the ultra-serious "Twilight" novels, "Dead Until Dark" is loosy-goosey, playful and oft tongue-in-cheek; readers will get a kick out of Harris's offbeat terminology ("fang-bangers", "mainstreaming") and a wry humor that makes itself evident in Sookie's responses to people as well as her inner thoughts. There are also a considerable amount of steamy sexual situations in the book, Bill's and Sookie's romance heating up rather quickly as well as some characters' bedroom proclivities discussed in somewhat unflattering detail.  If you have a pre-teen interested in this series (though this is not classified as Young Adult Fiction) and you're concerned about content, this might not be a good choice (Twilight was cited for this reason by more conservative readers). The series, having gotten its start in 2001, has experienced a surge in popularity due to its adaptation into an HBO series titled "True Blood" (starring Anna Paquin as the inimitable Sookie).  If you want a quick cinematic overview of the first novel with a charismatic and talented cast, point yourself in the direction of True Blood's first season, now available on DVD.Bottom line: A playful and exciting vampire series that just might have Stephenie Meyer biting her nails a bit, "Dead Until Dark" is the start of something good and though Harris seems to be spitting out the travails of Sookie Stackhouse year after year (there's an impressively short reprieve between each book), it will be nonetheless disappointing when it all ends.  Until then, my friends, sink your fangs into this delicious tidbit of supernatural Southern gothic.
4	1246060800	A friend recommended the True Blood series to me and when I read that it came from a book series, I just had to get the book.  I wasn't disappointed.  Although I still haven't watched TB, I have finished reading Charlaine Harris' first novel in the series.  I was immediately hooked.  Normally, when I think about characters with supernatural powers, I think about cocky or arrogant people who flaunt what makes them special.  Not with Sookie.  She considers her ability to read peoples' thoughts a disability.  She's a quirky, confident woman who works in a bar as a waitress.  She has learned to block out most voices, but some still come through.  Then she meets her vampire (as vampires are now an accepted part of society) and her world changes.  Suddenly danger and tragedy seem to follow her.  Naturally, suspicion falls on the new being in town and Sookie has to use her disability to try to help her beau, her brother and herself.Overall, a great story.  It's fun, and refreshing, yet has enough tension and sadness weaved in to complete it.  I enjoyed reading about Sookie and seeing the way she viewed the world.  I'm looking forward to watching it on DVD, although I know that novels rarely translate well to TV.
3	1245801600	I read this book because it was recommended by a friend.  While I was intrigued by the characters, I was not very impressed by the writing or story development.  But there was something there that kept me reading so it must have been the characters.  I want to know more so I think I will try the second book to see what happens.  There is some romance but it is on the crude side and the main character finds herself in some bizarre situations -- but the entire book is bizarre.  All in all, a decent beach read --- I think.
4	1245628800	I started watching Showtime's True Blood last year and really liked the first season, so I was curious to read the books the show is based on. A few people had recommended it to me. The first book, Dead Until Dark, is loosely what the first season of the show was based on.It was regretful that I already knew most of the story before beginning the book because it'd be more suspenseful if I came to it with no knowledge at all. Despite that, I still enjoyed Dead Until Dark because it's different enough from the show that it didn't feel like I was just reading a synopsis. A few of the main characters have different personalities from their TV version and while the main plot of the book is reflected in the show, a few things go differently.The books are like Pringles; once you start reading, it's hard to stop. I downloaded the first book as an ebook because I wasn't sure if I'd like the rest enough to buy the boxed set. I couldn't stop reading. I read in the car. I read while walking to the car. I read while I was supposed to be playing video games. If I had found a way to read while running, I would have done that too. I finished the first book on Wednesday and immediately got the second and dove in.Dead Until Dark isn't high-brow literature by any means, but it's a fun romp into the urban fantasy genre with a good mystery thrown in.  It's every bit as graphic as the show is in the violence department, and maybe a notch steamier in the hot vampire sex department.  It's a good read for anyone who's a fan of the show or just urban fantasy in general.
5	1245542400	I had heard of individuals raving about True Blood, a show on HBO, but was not much interested because I'm not big into fantasy/vampires (I did read the Twilight series and found it enjoyable, but had no desire to seek other vampire fiction). The television series eventually got book enthusiasts talking about the writing the television show was based on, which prompted me to give it a try.In the beginning of the book I thought I had perhaps made a mistake - the vampire theme was still slightly sketchy to me, and lots of characters were being introduced, making it more of a complicated read. Eventually I got everything straight and found myself loving the plot - Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress in a bar, meets a vampire (Bill). In this novel, vampires are allowed to live among humans, and everyone is aware that they are vampires (something different from the Twilight series). Bill has been trying to "mainstream," or drink artificial blood and actually be a part of a community. Shortly after Sookie and Bill meet, several murders happen around the town to women who have been known to associate with vampires, and have been found with bite marks, making it slightly more difficult for Bill to blend in.There is a great mix of romance and mystery in this book, and I did not figure out the mystery bit until it was revealed to me in the manuscript (which I love, as some mystery novels have rather obvious outcomes). I am very much looking forward to reading the remaining books in this series - I find myself wondering how Bill and Sookie are doing as I am in between books, so I am glad there are several others for me to read!
4	1245456000	I became a fan of the HBO series, True Blood. At first I didn't want to read the books because I didn't want anything given away. When I found out the first season was based on the first book of this series, I read it just as season 2 was starting. The book is a very light easy read. Perfect for summer or travel reading. The relationship between Sookie & Bill is an exciting one... dating a vampire has to be the ultimate "bad boy". I think the story line is refreshing. So different from the many other vampire books out there. It's also filled with a little suspense & mystery. Looking forward to reading the 2nd book in the series!
3	1245456000	What can I say? It sucked me in (pun intended)! An R-rated version of Twilight, and inspiration for the HBO series True Blood, it was campy, edgy, weird and not especially well-written. And yet, I stayed up until 2 AM to finish it. Not sure what that says about me, but I did enjoy it. A refreshing departure from "deep" reads, and it was just a fun, vacation paperback.
1	1245283200	Dead until Dark has potential but as other reviewers have pointed, the writing is poorly thought out and sloppy. The characters are flat and boring and toward the end, I really didn't care what happened to them. Interesting elements are mentioned once and never developed ( Sino-Aids for instance ) but stupid stuff like what characters are wearing go on for pages.Also, I was appalled by the lack of positive female characters in the book. Beside the grandma, who gets offed pretty quick, the entire book was populated by loose cheap uneducated women. I'm sure the South isn't full of sex craved waitresses, but in Harris' world, all women seem to be of "low skill jobs, no college,  bottom of the barrel". This is actually a quote from one of the characters, but I feel it's one of the most honest sentiments in this vapid book.And all the sex ( thoughts about sex, sex talk, vampire sex, sex sex sex) gets tedious. It felt like the book was written by a horny teenager.And the murder mystery which appears to be thrown in for those readers who want an undeveloped plot point when they get bored of the sex? It's stupid. The murderer is a random character that you would never guess, but not in a good whodunit way, but in a " What? You barely mentioned this character, writer!" way.I don't recommend the book at all.
4	1245196800	"Dead Until Dark" begins the "Southern Vampire Mysteries" by introducing Sookie Stackhouse, a telepathic waitress in Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Having initially caught onto the novel via the "True Blood" series on HBO, my mental imagery is somewhat contaminated.  A couple differences exist between the two yet one can mostly expect similar action.  The author's writing is not complex, focusing on Sookie in the first person point of view narrative.  Descriptions and dialogue are easy to follow however the recurring sexual theme might dissuade those wishing to encourage young readers.Sookie maintains a mental barrier, preventing her from going crazy by hearing people's thoughts.  One night a vampire Bill Compton enters the bar and therefore her life.  She's young, somewhat nave, and becoming more curious and active regarding couples interaction.  As an earlier reviewer noted, Sookie finds odd times to express her excitement given her original innocence.  The internal conflict discovering a match rather realistically bounces between whom she fantasizes.  The prevailing gossip and relations shown in small towns are well exemplified.Initially the series appears to be young adult with tendencies toward action and suspense, not horror per se.  I cautiously recommend this collection to any fan of the vampire genre.Thank you.
4	1245110400	Charles de Lint said once that the current urban-fantasy novels are highly focused on character, and that readers like or dislike a series based on whether they connect with the protagonist. (I wish I could find that quote!) Based on this, I'm not surprised that Charlaine Harris has, as I write this review, the top three best-selling fantasy titles on Amazon. Disclaimer: I've only read this first book so far, and haven't seen the TV series. But from what I've seen, Sookie Stackhouse is a delight.Sookie is a Louisiana waitress with telepathic abilities. She sees her telepathy as a disability, not a gift; it's brought her a lot of trouble over the years and hampered her social life and love life. Other than the telepathy, though, she's a fairly normal woman. Sookie stands out among the impossibly tough heroines who populate this subgenre. She's brave, yet vulnerable, and she knows her limits. Best of all, she's funny! I really liked spending time "in her head," and I think I spoke with a slight Southern twang for a day or two afterward!Her life gets complicated when Bill, a handsome vampire, walks into her bar one night. To Sookie's shock and delight, she can't read his thoughts! Then, when her telepathy tips her off that his dining companions have foul play in mind, she rescues him and their romance begins.Soon, Sookie finds herself tangled up in vampire politics and a murder mystery. The story is fast-paced and suspenseful. I was especially on the edge of my seat at one point when Bill may or may not have been killed, and Sookie has no way of knowing whether he's OK until the sun goes down. Sookie's fear and sadness come right through the page.I enjoyed _Dead Until Dark_, and I'll definitely be reading further in the Sookie Stackhouse series.
5	1244592000	I really enjoyed the first season of True Bloods which I didn't know was based off the books. As soon as I found out I started the series and I have to say I love it. Vampire books and moives have always been my guilty pleasure and this totally filled my Twilight void although this was written first. I lovethe charaters nad the way Harris writes. Howevert his is more of an adult book and is not suitable for young readers. I really enjoyed this and can't wait to read the second one.
5	1244246400	The series is geared towards adults, so there are some - make that many - explicit scenes in the novel. I wouldn't suggest giving this book to a Twihard teen in search of a vampire fix.The vampires in this book are part of the community. They drink synthetic blood to keep the general public feeling safe. Everyone seems to know that they still nibble here and there. There is a community of "Fang Bangers" that will do anything to be the sacrificial lamb. The hot vampire club Fangtasia is where the fangbangers go to see and be seen. They are often times covered in scars from all the times they have allowed themselves to be bitten.When a vampire named Bill walks into Merlottes Bar in small town Louisiana, he turns heads. Sookie is a waitress at the bar and is fascinated with the mysterious creature. She is also wildly attracted to him, mostly because she can't hear his thoughts the way she can hear everyone else's. Listening to other peoples thoughts against your will is no way to live and she is known to be crazy in the town for her mysterious gift.Fangbangers start turning up dead, people are pointing fingers at vampire Bill right away. Soon enough they start pointing fingers at Jason, Sookies brother who likes to cavort with fangbangers and make videos. When Sookies life is the one being threatened she has no idea who to trust, or how to stay alive.This book was very exciting. Action packed from start to finish. I can't wait to see how it compares to the show!
4	1244246400	"Dead Until Dark" is fresh, well-plotted and a quick read. So it's not the finest example of literary genius - that's not what I'm looking for in a series such as this - just a fun, fast-paced read that helps me escape into a fantasy world filled with engaging characters and lots of supernatural goings-on. And on that level, the Sookie Stackhouse series of books by Charlaine Harris delivers.In "Dead Until Dark" [the first in the series], the main protagonist is Sookie Stackhouse, an attractive waitress in the small Louisiana town of Bon Temps. Sookie is blessed [or cursed, depending on one's perspective] with telepathy, the ability to listen in on people's thoughts. Because of this otherworldly gift, Sookie can't seem to form any sort of long-term relationship with men.There are varying story arcs in this book - the main one being that vampires are out in mainstream society, most drinking synthetic blood so as to make their presence amongst mortals more acceptable. One particular vampire, Bill Compton saunters into the bar where Sookie works one evening. Sookie is strongly drawn to Bill, mainly because she can't tune into his thoughts, a refreshing change from all the other guys she's known. Their relationship gets more intense as the story progresses with complications galore - murders of people known to have closely associated with vampires etc. Sookie uses her telepathic ability to solve the mystery.There are other characters that engage readers interest and keep the narrative flowing, and like I mentioned earlier, this is a quick read. There aren't any complex sentence structures to untangle and ponder over - it's what it is - a simply told tale of the supernatural that makes for good escapist fare. I'd recommend this to those who like supernatural-themed stories. I also happen to like the HBO series "True Blood" which does differ in some aspects from the novel, but can be enjoyed independently of the novels.
1	1244246400	I made it through the first few pages of this book, and had to check to make sure I hadn't accidentally picked up a high school term paper.  The writing here is so pedestrian, so lacking in originality or innovation, it makes me assume that adapting this piece of garbage into an absorbing television show must have been one hell of a challenge.  The good news for me is that I won't have to suffer through any more of Charlaine Harris' excruciating prose; not when I have "True Blood."
5	1243987200	I bought this book because it was recommended by Amazon, and I'm sure glad I did!  I absolutely loved this book!  I would share it with anyone.  I read this book in less than 24 hours (and have done the same with the others in the series).
2	1243814400	The story follows a telepathic waitress, Sookie Stackhouse, as she struggles with her "disability," romance, and family. This was recommended and I kept passing it up, until finally I decided to give it a try. Sookie is self described as attractive, but a loner. She has no desire to interact with men until she falls in love with a vampire.She lives in a small town in what appears to be current time, but apparently vampires are "mainstreaming" into human life. This part of the book is laid out in no more than two paragraphs. It follows the relationships of small town life around romance and murder. The book is mostly like a mystery or a written version of CSI meets Medium. The town has a series of murders all pointing at someone close to Sookie. She is next on the list, but who could it be???It wasn't that fun to read, although it was easy. The writing is contrived and repetitive (lots of "I wore this... I wore that... I kept my facial expression calm, good thing I could control my face), the characters are not really fully developed, but you do kind of like them. Sookie is the object of every man or vampire's attraction, but she is resistant to most of them. Is she a strong female heroin? Not really.  Her boss, Sam, has potential to be a cool character, but kind of falls flat due to poor character development and questionable... um how do I say this without giving anything away... choices on how he presents himself to Sookie. The grandma and Bill, the Vampire,  are probably the more likable characters, but they seem out of place in this story. And when Bill leaves the story at random times you want to follow him, just to get out of the mundane and cliche world of Sookie Stackhouse.All in all, I have made the decision not to read the rest of the series and I wouldn't recommend this book, but if you have to read it, out of curiosity, be warned that it is a bit like watching a cheesy crime drama on network TV. It's predictable except when you predict it going to get better after this happens or that, but it never does.
3	1243728000	While the plot borders on ridiculous, this book is pure fun.  It's a great quick read that's a combination of suspense, humor and romance.
1	1243555200	I agree completely with the other reviewers who rated this at 1 or 2 stars.  The writing is completely lackluster and feels lazy without enough depth and detail when it's needed, but oddly enough there is too much pointless detail in many parts.  Also, the sentence structure is terrible and makes it difficult to read smoothly.  For instance, on page 3 (wow, that didn't take long!) there is a sentence that reads:"When Sam looked back at me, I could tell he too knew our new customer was undead."Horrible!  I had to stop, re-read the line and dissect it to get the meaning.  It feels like a double negative and the use of 'knew' so close to 'new' is disruptive.  She couldn't have possibly used a thesaurus to look for a synonym? Since then, I've found the book to be riddled with these kinds of sentences- which makes it seem that it was not edited well, if at all.  Coupled with the flat characters and terrible southern dialog (I've lived in southern Texas and New Orleans for many, many years and NO ONE talks like that!) this is not a book that encourages reading past page 23, which is where I'm currently stuck.Another pet peeve?  How many times does a 20 year old use the term "pleased as punch" in any given year, much less within a few pages of text?  NEVER!Also, I'm in complete agreement with other reviewers about the revelation of Maudette's murder."Hey, I got a new hot water heater and I like it so much that I'm going to go into gross detail about how I bargain shopped for it.""Cool.""BTW, Maudette was murdered.""Oh.""Anyway, back to the water heater..."I mean seriously- in a small town or even in a large town/city, if some one you knew was murdered wouldn't that be the topic of conversation that was highest on your list?  This isn't believable in any way.  And I hate how Sookie is trash talking Maudette saying that she's a loafer, go-nowhere, do-nothing kind of person.  Seems to me that a girl living with her grandmother in BFE, Louisiana and working nights in a bar with no college education shouldn't be throwing stones in glass houses.So, this may be a bit ranty, but I just can't believe that a book of this poor quality was published.  The plot is an interesting one, but it needs some serious editorial work.  And to be fair I do like the Twilight series, and by like I mean LOVE, and after reading them more than once with a critical eye I understand that it's not an example of perfect writing, but seriously this book (Dead Until Dawn) just sucks a big one.  What made Twilight work was the deep fabric created by the author that drew you in, held your attention, and propelled you to turn page after page into the wee hours of the morning through the settings and situations she created or the believable characters she made you love.So, in summation: Don't buy it or waste your time reading it.  At best watch the HBO series, although I have to say that the only thing worse than the southern "voice" in the book are the accents on the show.
4	1243296000	I've always loved vampire books, but the Sookie series is so different because of the Southern, average working-woman point of view.  Sookie is so down to earth, and her voice is so normal that the book is really fresh.  No florid language or descriptions here.  Just a totally understandable person, in a not so understandable or normal world.  Fantastic series!  Good book to start it.
4	1243209600	I first heard of this book series (this is one of nine books--so far) because of the show that it spawned (True Blood on HBO--you may have heard of it). This book is really engrossing. It follows Sookie Stackhouse, a young, attractive (blond with big boobs as she describes herself in the book), telepathic waitress in small town Bon Temps, Lousiana. A couple of years before vampires announced their presence thanks to a synthetic blood substitute designed by the Japanese. This means they no longer need to feed on human blood to live. In other words, they went mainstream, but none really seem to frequent Bon Temps... Until Bill (the vampire as some call him) walks into the bar where Sookie works. Sookie taken by him, especially since she finds she can't hear his thoughts. But... she can hear the thoughts of the Rattrays (a couple who frequent the bar that she refers to as the rats... if that is any indication of their character), who plan to drain Bill of his blood. Vampire blood is often drained by humans (called drainers) to take (like a drug) or sell. They then often leave the vampire to die (as he or she is too weak to escape once drained). When she notices that the three (the "rats" and Bill the vampire) have disappeared from the booth they were seated in, she goes outside to search for them, finding them near the woods where Bill is on the ground tangled in silver chains (which burn vampire skin). Sookie comes to his defense, and this is how their relationship starts. I will leave it there, but it keeps you turning the pages, wondering what happens next and learning more about Sookie's telepathic talent, as well as vampire secrets. I am already on book 4 in the series (Dead to the World), and I started the series less than a week ago. And next, I'm going to watch the show, True Blood. If you are interested in vampires, definitely read this.
5	1243123200	Dead Until Dark (Southern Vampire Mysteries, No. 1)The story line is great, even more so for me because i'm from Louisiana and can related to her descriptions of the south. The book is a relaxing easy read, its humirous at times, dramatic, suspensful and they always seems to be a twist around every corner. I read this book after a friend has recommended it and now i can't put them down. I've been flying through the series and it only gets better as you become more familiar with the characters. With each book you see as Sookie develops and her encounters within the supe world introduces an interesting aray of new freinds and some foes.
4	1242950400	This was perhaps one of the biggest surprise reads for me.  The idea of mixing vampire antics with elements of the mystery genre and a good dash of tongue-in-cheek really made for a wonderful single sitting reading.  I have read this series up to book six, and sad to say this is probably the most consistently entertaining.  It balances all the different elements in a way that is creepy, charming, and still absorbing at the same time.Sookie is one of the most endearing characters I've run across in a while, and Bill is actually just as entertaining.  The other characters also add delightfully into the mixture.  Too bad the author later on did not know what to do with most of them.Yes, file it under "guilty pleasures".
3	1242604800	I've got to say that I have scoffed at this series and other paranormal romance novels for years.  I just didn't think they were worth my time. Over the past weekend, however, I was stranded with nothing else to do and this was the only thing I could find that I hadn't already read.  I must admit that I was surprised at how interesting the story was.  Sookie Stackhouse is a totally engaging character.  The mystery plot is fairly intriguing as well.  It has the prerequisite sappy romance moments and is a bit predictable, but I can understand its mass appeal and the impetus for the HBO series. If you are a romantic mystery/suspense fan, you will surely enjoy it.  I may even venture into the second of the series.
4	1242604800	I don't exactly know what I was expecting..but I don't think it was this! Dead Until Dawn was funny, VERY southern, full of mystery, romance, and all sorts of other things that make up a very interesting novel. It isn't exactly what I'm used to; I tend to stick with historical fantasy/fiction, as well as the Twilight books, but I really enjoyed this book. I purchased the Sookie Stackhouse boxset, and I'm going to start the next book this morning! :) I can't wait.
5	1242518400	I have read several customer reviews talking about how this book was not like Twilight. I also read the Twilight series and enjoyed them very much, but after I finished the series I, too, was looking for something similar. I did some research and was pointed towards the Sookie Stackhouse series. I loved this book!! If you refrain from comparing it to the Twilight series and just enjoy the book you'll find things you love too. This book has mystery, comedy, and it's just a fun and easy read. I have since finished the series and it just gets better with every book.
1	1242345600	sigh- shudder-I have three things to say...Ok...first off, if you're one of the many people out there who's looking for vampire fiction because you or someone you know, read and loved the Twilight series.  Keep looking!  DO NOT read these books just because they're supposed to be about vampires and for some bizarre reason have been placed next to them on the shelf.Secondly:If you're looking for good vampire fiction for any reason...keep looking.-From edgy urban vampire to cult classic to good old fashioned Dracula, this book has nothing new and many many badly rewritten old ideas.If you're looking for a murder mystery...keep looking.-There is no mystery.  If you can't figure this out, stick to tic-tac-toe.If you're looking for something a little "exciting" to read...keep looking.-Again from adult excitement to thriller to young adult, I've had more excitement in traffic jams.Most of all, if you're looking for something well written and exciting with well-rounded intrigueing characters, interesting discriptions and realistic dialogue...KEEP LOOKING!This book was so badly written that the minute I finished it, I had to write this review to warn the world.  I'm not even saying this is just bad vampire fiction or a bad mystery- it's just bad.  The writing is horrible. The plot is trite.  I can't even describe the characters as cardboard cut-outs - they're more like inflatable dolls.  And the dialogue? Ugh.Third Point:Sex Warning- this is being marketed for young adults and its raunchy.If you're buying for someone young, you should be aware it's got a lot of really badly written sexual content.If you're buying this book for the sex scenes, don't settle for this.  You can find better stories in a seventh grade locker room where everyones talking about what they haven't ever done.
5	1242172800	I love the telepathic, courageous, beautiful, sexy Sookie who is humble and modest.  She falls for the strong silent type, a Vampire.  She isn't burdened by his mind which is a GREAT relief for her making her like him even more.  There are so many great twists to the plot.  This novel has everything, action, romance, suspense and much much more.  So very entertaining.  I could not put it down!!  I can't wait for Charlaine to come out with another one.  I've read all of them so far and have not been disappointed.
2	1242086400	I didn't like this book but also I didn't really not like it. I can't think of anything in it that I really enjoyed other then the kind of hinted at love triangle. I think I am going to read book two just to see if they get better. Can't really explain why I am intrigued with them. They aren't my usual style. I thought it was a little raunchy not really romantic at all. I think I kind of like Sookies character and I want to know what happens with her. To see how this whole Bill Sam thing works out. I would only suggest this book to certain good humored friends.
5	1241827200	I've been looking for a new series of books to start reading and this kept getting recommended to me by Amazon.  I thought... why not?  I'm soooo glad that I bought this book.  It's a great look into what things might be like if vampires "lived" amoung us.  I love Sookie and her innocense.  I love sexy (in my mind!) Bill and his want to be able to live with the humans.  I love how this mystery unfolded.  I just loved the whole thing.  As a matter of fact I just went out today and bought the next book because I didn't want to wait to have it shipped to me!  ANYONE looking for a great read... it's right her in Dead Until Dark!
1	1241740800	Let me start by saying that I am a huge fan of vampire fiction and urban fantasy.  I am not a genre jumping whiner who didn't know what to expect from this book and was thus put off or disappointed with what I got.  I have read all of the Anita Blake, Merry Gentry, and Black Dagger Brotherhood novels.  As well as countless others that I can't seem to name.And I have heard so many good things about the Sookie Stackhouse books that when I ran out of stuff to read, I went ahead and bought the entire boxed set.  When UPS showed, I tore into the box and started reading right away.What a freaking let down.The first book in the series read like it was written by a twelve year old for other twelve year olds.  The story line was boring, the characters were totally one-dimensional, and frankly, when you got to the end you were relieved that it was over.Vampire Bill is a pansy.  What self-respecting vampire is going to let himself get drained by a couple of pieces of trailer trash in a bar parking lot??  And if one of your family members was brutally murdered, would you immediately boink in their bed??Those are just two of the implausible things that happen in the 200 or so wasted pages that comprise this book.As tempted as I am start a fire and fuel it with this boxed set, I am compelling myself to continue reading.  Only because I have read so many reader reviews that assure me that things get better from book two forward.I certainly hope so.  Because if they get any worse, the universe is going to implode.  Seriously, it was that bad.
5	1241740800	I watch Tru Blood and love it! I read this book in 2.5 days and loved it more then then the show!
5	1241654400	I'm writing this review having read all of the Charlaine Harris books in the Sookie Stackhouse series.  In this book, you are introduced to Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress at a bar in a small town in northern Louisiana.  Vampires came out of the closet, so to speak, a few years prior, but Sookie had never seen one...until Bill came walking in the door at the bar.In this book, Bill, the vampire and Sookie, the telepath, get to know each other, and romance blooms.  Bill is drawn to Sookie in a way he never expected.  The action starts when Bill gets attacked by "Drainers", people who drain the blood out of a vampire to sell on the black market.  Vampire blood makes humans feel wonderful, quick to heal, skin glows, and strong.  Or it could make you go mad.  That's just the first of many problems that Sookie and Bill face in this book.  You meet other memorable characters in the book who reappear in the other Sookie Stackhouse books.  Some you love, others you don't care for so much, but they're meant to come off that way.  Charlaine Harris' books are loaded with action, drama, and humor.My reaction to this book was similar to the Twilight series of books.  When I finished one, I went immediately to the next.  I had to know what happens next.  I warn you, if you read this book, you'll want to read them all.  Enjoy.
3	1241481600	Sookie is a waitress with a "social handicap" - she can read minds.  Because of this she has little social life and doesn't date. A vampire walks into the bar, and she is relieved to finally meet someone whose mind she can't read. Because of her mind-reading, she can also tell that the local white trash couple also currently present in the bar plan to trap and "drain" the vampire (to sell his blood, which has curative properties). Rather unbelievably (and in a foolhardy manner) she goes out to the parking lot and singlehandedly rescues him. A few nights later, he returns the favor and rescues her. This is all in the first chapter. So much for buildup. Many more dramatic events and the resolution of a local murder mystery follow.I'm of two minds about this one.  Parts of it were funny. I enjoyed it.  I finished it.  I have no desire to continue the series.  The strong attraction between Sookie and Bill did not feel completely believable or developed to me. Although Sookie is an interesting character, I found her sort of irritating, but I'm not able to put my finger on why.  I think part of it might be that her emotional and psychological responses didn't seem in keeping with the nature of the events she was going through. For example, a close relative is killed, and you were the intended victim. Would you be worried about your romantic life?  Would you be staying in the same house, alone?
1	1240790400	I finished Twilight and was looking for another vampire book... so I read this book and was terribly disappointed. I had to force myself to finish it and was soooooooo bored. I think I will just read &#34;Twilight&#34; again!
2	1240704000	I was given this book by a friend.  She said to read it because now that I had finished reading the Twilight books, it was another vampire series I would enjoy.  I put it on a shelf because at the time I was busy reading other books.  Then recently my book club picked this book to read.  The girl who choose it spoke so highly of it.  The reviews online seemed so positive, and hey, it was used to create a television show.  So it must be good?This weekend I dusted it off and began.  The story is somewhat compelling at points, but the author has you all over the place and leaves some plot lines dangling.  It borders the "Trashy Romance" type novel and doesn't seem to have much depth. This is not a series I will continue reading.  The story did nothing to compel me to continue reading it.  In fact, if it weren't for the book club, I would have put this book down after the first sexual vampire account.  This book is all hype and I was extremely disappointed in reading it.
5	1240531200	OK, as a person that read the twilight series.. this is nothing like it...ITS SEXY! Its twilight, but for mature adults. Sookie I think is a cute girl, she's so.....southern! But I am totally enjoying the series... TOTALY recommended this to all my friends...P.S., THE HBO SERIES IS SOOO GOOOOD! I AM SOO HOOKED!
5	1240444800	The first time I heard about Dead Until Dark, I was watching the show True Blood. The opening credits came on and I noticed they mentioned that the show was based on the Sookie Stackhouse books by Charlaine Harris. Like most people I then decided to run to the library to pick the book Dead Until Dark. Not only did the show True Blood inspire me to read Dead Until Dark, but the Twilight series also inspired me to read the book. The Twilight series opened my eyes to books about vampires and led me to find the Anne Rice novels and the Sookie Stackhouse books.The story takes place in the small town on Bon Temp, Louisiana. The main character, Sookie Stackhouse, is a twenty-something year old waitress at the local bar. One night Bill, Bon Temp's first vampire, comes into the bar. While the other patrons become apprehensive, Sookie welcomes Bill and sets out to get to know him. One night Bill is in danger and Sookie comes to his rescue. Days later Sookie is attacked in the bar's parking lot and Bill comes and saves her. His actions cause them to create a bond where they are in debt to each other. Their bond later becomes a relationship. While Sookie's friends disapprove she finds nothing wrong with it. All of the sudden two local girls, and Sookie's grandmother are found dead. Leaving Sookie and the rest of the town in shock. It is up to Sookie and Bill to find the murder and put the killing to an end.One thing I did not like about the book was the fact that the Tara was not in it, even though she was in the show. I know that television shows and books are not going to be the same. She brought a certain humor to the show that I wish was in the book. With out her it felt as if the book was lacking quick wit and some one liners. Though the book had its moment of humor I still wish Tara was in it to deliver some needed sarcasm.One thing I enjoyed about the book was the way it was written. At the end of every chapter the reader was left begging for more. Not only was the quality of writing spectacular, little clues were strewn through out the pages. It gave the reader the sense of solving the mystery themselves. It was as if the reader was in the scene themselves. Each chapter flowed together, and increased the suspense page by page. Towards the end of the book I found myself setting up scenarios of who the killer was and what was going to happen when Sookie and Bill uncovered the murderers identity.I would recommend this book to fans of True Blood, and fans of Twilight. I would recommend this book to True Blood fans, that way they could have the expreince of the show and the book. Also, so they would be able to compare and contrast the book and the show, and not rely on the show. I would recommend this book for Twilight fans because it puts a twist on the vampire love story. It strips down the powers and fighting and puts it into a world of modern day simple folk. If someone is looking for a good mystery/love story Dead Until Dark is the Book for them.
5	1240444800	I've kept my eye on this series for quite some time, and when I was able to get my hands on the first of the series I dove right in and was instantly hooked. This story, which is a new perspective on vampires (at least for me)comparing it with other novels like "Dracula", "The Historian" and the Twilight series. In this story, the vampires live out in the open, claiming their existence to the world and living somewhat harmoniously with humans. The main character, Sookie, whom is able to reads the minds of others, is working at her job at a small town local bar when a vampire walks in, the first she's ever seen in person. Bill, a post Civil War made vampire, is instantly intrigued by Sookie after she saves his life from two people when they try to drain him of the powerful blood his body possesses. Sookie's attraction is equally intense and a loving and somewhat humorous relationship begins with them. The story continues on with the mysterious deaths of young human women, who are also fang bangers (humans that associate with vampires, usually intimately), and the characters can do nothing but suspect that Bill is the culprit, though Sookie is behind him with her support. Sookie's life is always at risk, since she herself is now a "fang banger" and it is up to her new man to do what he can to keep her safe from the real killer. Charlaine Harris is a good storyteller, weaving a tale that is romantic, humorous, and suspenseful. Its very grown up compared to the Twilight series, which I like, being an adult myself. One of my favorite parts, that made me laugh quite hysterically, was when the vampire Bubba came into the story near the end. "Bubba" is a very famous singer who was turned into a vampire by a die hardy fan, and you won't believe who it is. Pick up this book and read it! I'm starting the second in the series right now!
2	1240185600	I have to say the relationship between bill and sookie was not developed at all. I had a hard time buying their "love." Page one they meet, page two they fall in "love" and page three they are hooking up; it was just WAY too fast. Some of the dialogue is just too ridiculous; i mean i laughed at loud at how bad it was many times. The only thing that kept me reading was to find out the mystery. these are the type of book that i read when i'm waiting for something better to come along.
3	1240099200	Though I enjoyed the book it is not the best of either vampire or mystery novels.  The characters can be a little one dementional and dumb (no one would leave their child for the night with someone that is known to be being stalked by a murderer). Despite this, it is a good book when you want something light, fun, and different.
1	1240012800	And you get this novel.  Some reviews called this book funny, but the only amusing part was laughing at the author, not with her.  The dialogue is strained at best and the plot line is very transparent.  I wouldn't even recommend this as a popcorn book, I'm afraid.
1	1240012800	This book is terribly written. The story line and characters are not developed, which is great because the writing is almost too painful to endure. I only made it through because a co-worker lent it to me and told me not to give up. Fortunately, it's such mindless writing I was able to speed through it in a couple of hours. Surely, there a better vampire stories out there for people who are hooked on this particular style of fantasy writing.
4	1239840000	I had just finished reading the Twilight saga and was looking for other great vampire books. I have heard of the 'True Blood" series on HBO and I am just waiting for it to come on DVD. Then I came across this series and found out "True Blood" is based on it. I just finished "Dead until Dark", and as other reviewers have posted, the similarities with Twilight are undeniable, but the plot and characters are different. I trully enjoyed the characters on this book, and Sookie? Oh boy, how funny is that girl. Just when you think the story is getting serious, she would throw a punch line that would make me laugh so hard. I loved it! Is definetly a more "grown up" book, sexy in its own way. Any writer who can put "fang-banger" and "Sally Jesse" on the same paragraph wins my vote :)
4	1239840000	I honestly believe that Stephanie Meyer read Charlaine Harris' Dead Until Dark, and decided to rip her off and make the Twilight Series.  I must say, I liked Dead Until Dark.  This was a great little mystery.  It took very little time to read, once I started it, I couldn't think about anything else but to continue reading it until I was done.  Sookie Stackhouse is a very funny main character, although a bit unbelievable.  This is a great opener to, hopefully, a great series.  I can't wait to learn more about Ms. Sookie.  And about my Twilight comment?  I hate Twilight, I think it is way overblown as something new and exciting.  It isn't.  Obviously, Ms. Harris did it better... and she did it before Stephanie Meyer.
2	1239667200	From the reviews, it appears there are a lot of Twilight fans (including me) looking for more to read and they have found this book. I have to admit that this is a disappointment on more than one level for me.  First, I felt it was rather poorly written.  The story seemed to be disorganized and downright cheesy in places.  Second, after reading this book, I had to question the originality of the Twilight series.  Harris' book was published in 2001.  Stephanie Meyer didn't begin writing Twilight until 2003.  The similarities between the two are unbelievable.  In fact, I was given this book to read because the stories are so much alike, not because this was a great book.
5	1239321600	I read Twilight (the entire series) and then was given the first of the Sookie Stackhouse books. First, the similarities is mind-boggling. Once I got over THAT, I found that I enjoyed: 1) the sexiness of Sookie, 2) the 'adult' content, and 3) the thrill of what takes place (the plot, basically). In Charlaine Harris' books, there is a different plot that takes you above and beyond what happens in each of the Twilight books; instead of a continuation of the love lire of the characters, you actually follow along with the storyline and the characters have more depth from a story's standpoint. If you are looking for sex and vampires, then this is the series to begin. This is the more 'adult' version of Twilight with more humour and fun. Just keep in mind that you will be laughing out loud over Sookie's antics and that this is not the 'sweet' and gentle love story found in Twilight!
4	1239062400	In my quest for readable vampire novels "Dead Until Dark" gets high marks.  Charlaine Harris, like so many other authors, has a unique point of view.  I love the idea that vampires are mainstreaming into human society and fighting for their rights like so many other groups.  Also to her credit, Ms Harris doesn't dumb her story down.  "Dead Until Dark" is no teen romance.  The story is fast, enjoyable, and easy to read, but still aimed at an adult audience.  What can I say?  Sometimes I like a little sex in my reading material.  And there's only so much unfulfilled longing I can take (ahem, Twilight).  As a tie-in to the HBO series, I enjoyed it as well.  The stories are basically the same, but there are a few minor differences.  I didn't find the book repetitive, however, because the point of view is more decidedly Sookie's.  I would definitely recommend it to vampire readers.
5	1238976000	Charlaine Harris does a wonderful job of creating a new present day world full of supernatural beings including one of my favorites, vampires. Sookie's charasmatic and sarcastic attitude make for a wonderful light heartedness to the storyline. If you're looking for this to be a similiar representation of the highly acclaimed "TrueBlood", well you might be dissappointed. The wonderfully twisted TV show is loosely based on the actual facts but is a great depiction of the overall plot. I liked "TrueBlood" but I love Charlaine Harris's Southern Vampire Series starring "Sookie Stackhouse".
3	1238284800	I'm seriously trying to decide whether or not to read the second book. I'm not one to give up on a series once I've started it, but Sookie just annoyed me beyond belief. I can't pinpoint exactly what it was about her as a character that got to me, but wow.The plot itself was both interesting and unique - which is a rare combination in this genre. That's what kept me reading. Now that I'm finished, however, I'm really wondering if it's worth it to KEEP reading.Sookie kind of grows on you by the end of the book, but - after reading a few novels with witty, intelligent, butt-kicking females, Sookie kind of comes as a shock...I really wouldn't recommmend this book to anyone looking for a thick plot and great romance - you probably won't find that here. Here's hoping the next book is better?
1	1237939200	Let me first say I love good, light reading.  I don't need classical writing or serious topics...I love a good girly book. I even devoured the Twilight series which many feel was poorly written.  However, I could hardly get through this book.  The character development was lacking as I never felt like I knew any of the characters thoroughly. In addition, I just never connected with Sookie as she seems to be emotionally scatterbrained.  She likes Sam, then she likes Bill, then she likes neither, then she likes Bill, then Sam, rinse, repeat.  Fickleness is fine in concept, but her feelings are never really explained so you have almost no idea where she's coming from. The plot line jumped around quite a bit as well, and in and in the end I felt this was a bit like reading something written by a 10th grade English student.  Not that I could do better, mind you, but I'm not a published author.I really wanted to like this book, truly I did.  I even took it with me for a cross-Atlantic flight, excited to indulge in hours of uninterrupted reading.  Unfortunately, this book make me longingly look at the Sky Mall magazine and wonder if it wouldn't be more interesting.  Was that a Snuggie I saw? :)
5	1237939200	Loved this book- getting ready to read book 2.  Kinda like Twilight for adults with a twist. Also, love the setting being in the hot steamy South!  I decided to read after watching the HBO series.  I did see some clear differences between the book and series, which is expected.  Great series of books to get into!!
2	1237766400	Not too bad but I definately liked Twilight better. It just seemed a little too similar but did not read as quickly as the Twilight series. Don't think I'll read the rest of them...
5	1237766400	I watched the HBO season one of TRUE BLOOD without knowing that it was a book series, once someone told me there were books attached to the series I had to get them and they are even better. This book keeps you hooked from beginning to end and leaves you wanting more.
4	1237680000	I had heard many great things about this book and series, that I was really excited to read it! I've also heard great things about the show. The author came up with a pretty great story-about how vampires 'came out of the closet' and live among humans. Very good characters, but I wish we could've learned more about Bill-the main vampire. I'm sure the author gets more in depth with his character in the next book or at least one of them!Overall the book was entertaining, yet very silly. Seemed kinda silly that in a small town, with a whole bunch of murders happening, that people wern't more freaked out or there wern't more cops roaming around.  I did find myself very sucked in by the book though, I totally wanted to know the ending!!!
5	1237334400	Dead until Dark is a great read, C. Harris is writes the way I like to read "smooth" with moments of haha out loud. I'm on book #3, ready for the next. Just can't get enough Vampire fun!
1	1237161600	My husband found this book for me thinking I might like it after reading the Twilight Saga. I read a few chapters and it was okay but after she meets Bill it just gets trashy. Guess I'll go back to my clean books by Lilian Jackson Braun.
5	1237075200	I don't normally enjoy vampire books but I really enjoyed this one.  I do greatly enjoy many sci-fi sagas and for some reason this series makes me think of them.  Maybe it is the weird world rules she created and the great characters she put in that world.  If you enjoy visiting Pern and Liaden, I expect you will enjoy this series too.  At least it is worth a try. &lt;G>
5	1236988800	After viewing the series TruebloodTrue Blood: The Complete First Season (HBO Series)I just had to read the Southern Vampire series by Charlaine Harris and was amazed that they could get a whole season out of one novel!! I absolutely loved the first book in the series and would thoroughly recommend it to anyone that enjoys this genre. You won't be able to stop at one!
5	1236988800	Loved this first book of this series.  It was very refreshing but suspenseful at times too.  I think I liked it a little better then the Twilight series.  Very easy read and quite addicting too =)
3	1236988800	One of my friends who'd recommended the Twilight books also recommended this series. I ordered the 7-book boxed set from Amazon sometime after the holidays but have only just not gotten to reading it. Personally, I don't think it has quite the same gripping, page-turning quality that Twilight did. Don't get me wrong, it's an interesting premise, and I enjoyed the idea that vampires were officially considered legal beings with actual rights and were therefore, in many cases, trying to "mainstream," or fit in with other humans. But I didn't feel as emotionally connected to the story as I did to the Twilight books--for me, the characters were not as universally relatable.I know some complain of Harris' writing style, but it didn't really bother me that much--it felt like Sookie Stackhouse was really the one telling the story. Her perspective is amusing: while not the sharpest knife in the drawer, she does have occasional insights that take people by surprise. Between that and her "disability" she quickly becomes essential in being able to solve the mystery of the murders that have been perpetrated in her own town. Overall, the book was a nice, quick read, with some different takes on vampires and other supernatural beings and how they fit in with the rest of the world. The romance between Sookie and Bill has a tendency to be annoying at times, but who am I to talk, given that I've never dated a vampire?! I've also already read the second book, which I ultimately liked better than the first, but that's for another review.
4	1236556800	After reading this book it's easy to see why Showtime snatched up this terrific and unique series. Dead until Dark has the perfect blend of mystery, romance, and humor. Sookie Stackhouse appears to be your average waitress at a local bar, but she's far from ordinary. She can read people's minds and the one thing on her mind is meeting her first vampire. In this series, vampires live amongst humans. Their existence is explained by a virus that had left them allergic to garlic, silver, and sunlight.Sookie is thrilled when a handsome vampire walks into her bar. She has waited years to meet her first vampire. Her first fanged hearththrob is named Bill Compton. At first I was thinking Hmmmmm. A vampire named Bill? As I kept reading I realized Sookie was thinking the same thing. She imagines her first vampire would be named Antoine, Basil, or Langford. This is when I realized this book was not one of those copycat vampire novels where the vampires are always named Valerian or some exotic name you can barely pronounce. Dead Until Dark is as unique as they come. Charlaine Harris took the legend of the vampire and made it her own.Dead After Dark vampires cohabit with humans, but they also have their special hangouts, a bar named Fangtasia and a New Orleans hotel named Blood in the Quarter where the front desk answers the phone "Bloooooooood...in the Quarter. Your coffin away from home." Bars serve vampires synthetic blood and vampires appear to coexist with humans peacefully, but there are still considered suspicious. I literally burst out laughing when a mother admits to having qualms about allowing a vampire to babysit her children! This book is a hoot!The humor and the romance between Bill and Sookie are just the icing on the cake. When women begin turning up dead, people begin to suspect the vampires. Some begin to question the so called legend of the virus. Is that how vampires were created or are they using that legend as a smokescreen? Things get more complicated when vampires begin dying as well. Someone is murdering people and Sookie appears to be next next on the murderer's agenda. I LOVED this book! It is original and humorous! Make sure you buy the boxset because you won't want to wait one minute before you start reading the next book in the series.
5	1236556800	I have always been a HUGE fan of anything with a strong female lead. Buffy is one of my all time favorites...  I was introduced to the series by HBO, (THANK YOU HBO!) I read Dead Until Dark when I needed my True Blood Fix.  I bought the first 7 and read them in a week!  I am now re-reading the first 7 until the 8th book arrives! I've also pre-ordered the 9th book.  I just can't get enough!Sookie is one of the best female charaters I've read in a long time.  Harris does a fantastic job in charater development, even with the secondary charaters. Bill leaves you wonderfully mixed up about your feelings towards him by the 6th or 7th book.  Eric, well all I can say about Eric is he is the subject of many a dreams for me.For those True Blood fans who expect the books to be just like the series, think again.  The creator of True Blood has taken some liberties with the show. The difference hasn't proven to be huge so far, but, I have a feeling the gap will widen as the show continues.  The show is great and I plan on continuing to watch, however I wish Harris would not do anything but write about Sookie and her many adventures.I just can't say enough good things about this series.
4	1236038400	What a delight!!! This was one of the books offered as something I may like to read. I kept coming back to the description and after I read some of the reviews I purchased the book. From the beginning I was pulled in to this story. Written with wit and fun, a great story line, and imbued with enough of the "unknown" to lure the reader in--and I was hooked. Very entertaining and a wonderful approach to the life of Sookie Stackhouse and the world in which she lives. Each chapter unfolds like a gift. If the description of this book intrigues you, get it! It is always exciting finding an author you like--I usually end up getting every book by a newly discovered author -- I plan to read all the books about Sookie Stackhouse.
5	1235952000	I have to have the second book ASAP.  I read this one in a day because I could not put it down. I totally ignored my husband all day LOL.  The characters are great and the ending is very satisfying.
5	1235952000	Amazing!This is one of the best paranormal series I have ever followed.So glad that I gave them a try!"True Blood" did an awesome re-creation of the Sookie Stackhouse Series,reading the books sure fills in the spaces for you.Left a few things out but still an awesome JOB!!!I'm Addicted....
5	1235865600	The book got to me very fast. I couldn't find the hard back book anywhere else, and the price was great!
2	1235433600	I have read a lot of vampire novels.  As a matter of fact I make a point to read everything that comes out.  I found the characters to be flat in particular the main character Sookie Stackhouse (who is suppose to have the ability to read people's minds).  All of the characters have no real life.  I could care less who lived or died and there was no draw to keep reading.  The sex in the book was okay - but not fantastic.  The main premise of  the book is that vampires are out in the open; this made the story a bit far fetched for me.  And also made it less mysterious.  I've heard that if you watch the show the books get better.  I'll try this before reading book two.
4	1235433600	I enjoyed reading Charlaine Harris's "Dead Until Dark", although it is not my favorite book. Easy to read, perfect for airplane or waiting in line type of reading. I am thinking about getting the second book, and see how it goes.
5	1235433600	I read this book in a day and a half. I love the show on HBO but the book is better. I have recommended this book to everyone I know and I got them hooked on the Sookie Stackhouse series.
2	1235347200	I don't know what I was expecting when I bought the first Sookie Stackhouse novel.  My introduction to this series came from the HBO show, True Blood and I can easily say that it was more enjoyable than this book.  The book obviously is for adults but it came off as childish and underwhelming.  I was dying, no pun intended, for some of the elements of the televsion show to come into play to liven this book up but saldy, they never came.  I think I'll check out season 2 of True Blood when it comes out but pass on the 2nd novel by Harris.
5	1235174400	Wow what a book!!!! Didn't want to put it down. Was turned on to the books by HBO and their new series "True Blood". The series is awesome and the book was the same. I recommend it as a must read for any vampire enthusiast.
3	1235174400	In this, the first of the Sookie Stackhouse/Southern Vampire mysteries which inspired the TV series "True Blood", we are introduced to Sookie Stackhouse, a psychic waitress from a small-town in Louisiana and her new boyfriend, the vampire Bill. When a serial killer starts preying on young women in low-level service jobs who have been in relationships with vampires, Sookie finds she must use her powers to find the killer in order to clear the two prime suspects: Bill and her brother, Jason."Dead Until Dark" is an OK book (not great, not terrible) that managed to hold my attention for its 292 page duration and that was good enough to make me want to read the next book in the series - although only because I happened to have bought the Sookie Stackhouse 7 book boxed set. The mystery elements of the book are good and well written, but the character of Sookie just didn't appeal to me (probably because I couldn't identify with her - also, Harris's need to constantly tell her audience that Sookie is an uneducated waitress and proud of it becomes a bit annoying after a while) and I didn't find the relationship between Sookie and Bill to be believable, in particular the whole on-again-off-again nature of it felt contrived. The fact that approximately one quarter of the book was made up of sex scenes between Sookie and Bill didn't help matters either. It struck me that the author got stuck for ideas around the middle of the book and just used these as filler.There are many similarities between this story and "Twilight", and as a result many people have accused this series of being a "Twilight" rip-off, but in defense of Charlaine Harris, I will say that she got in first by about 5 years - not that the idea of a mixed human/vampire relationship is anything new. Given the similarities, however, fans of one series will probably like the other. I also found this book to be very similar in style and tone to the Stephanie Plum mysteries by Janet Evanovich, which are humourous, (non-supernatural) novels about an incompetent female bounty hunter, told from Stephanie's point of view in a similar voice to that of Sookie, so fans should also check out this series.
5	1235088000	I've never seen the show on HBO, but after reading this first book in the series I immediately went out and bought the rest of the Sookie Stackhouse series.  I've become a fan and can't wait for the DVD of the first season to come out.  I loved all the books, they are easy reads that you can pick up and put down as needed, however, you don't want to put them down.  When your through with the story it's like missing a group of friends until the next book comes along.  I highly recommend this series. P.S.  Harris writes a hot love scene without being embarassing. I loved loved loved this whole series.
2	1235001600	I could not muster up the energy to finish this white trash romance between bar waitress Sookie Stackhouse and the new vampire in town, Bill Compton. I like to support local authors, but the characters were two-dimensional and the plot virtually non-existent. Perhaps the television series based on these books is better.
5	1234828800	I haven't seen the HBO TV series Tru Blood, but I really enjoyed this book series that the show is supposed to be based on.=)
1	1234828800	I really tried liking this book, I really did, but everything in it was so clich&eacute; I just couldn't.Every charachter has emotional depth of a 7 years old, lacking basic human instincts such as grief or self restraint (cue the scene of after-death sex), and most of the descriptions, especially the sex, reek of purple prose as bad as a stand full of Harlequin "novels".Everything about this novel makes me think that the author spent too much time on The Pit of Voles, otherwise known as FanFiction.net , reading godawful romance stories written by 16 years old cutters and considering them good literature.Really. I didn't even need to look at the end of the book to know how it'll end. You couldn't possibly imagine more stupid decisions made by characters, and you can easily guess what happens next.I don't know wether it is the editor or the writer herself, but grammar and interpunction in this piece reminded me of an essay I wrote when I was in 6th grade (I'm not a native english speaker. 4th grade is when I started studying English). I just couldn't bear it. At first I tried to rationalise, thinking, maybe this is how they speak in Lousiana, with this much commas and no grammar whatsoever, but after the first 50 pages I came to a conclusion that no, this is not the case. Either editor, author or both screwed up royally.Plot. They say you can't have a book without it. Well, Joice proved with his "Ulysses" you actually can, but that served a purpose! The lack of plot in this...thing  serves no purpose whatsoever. Do not try looking for a plot, there isn't any. It only appears at the very end of the book when everyone, so sex-crazed before, *finally* realise there is a serial killer on the lose. And they have sex anyway.Look, I really did try but this book rubbed me the wrong way so many times I can promise you, if you are as fond of decent literature as I am, and like your gramma CORRECT IN A PRINTED WORK, GODDAMMIT you will loathe this novel with all your heart. And then some.
4	1234656000	Most vampire stories tend to fall into the same rut, but surprisingly, this one stands on its own feet.  Not falling into the same clich&eacute;s these funny and unique characters will keep you turning the pages.Sookie Stackhouse is a nave goodhearted southern girl minding her own business in Bon Temps, Lousiana when the vampires starting moving in.  Being the south I guess that doesn't raise too many eyebrows, but when girls that start dating vampires, affectionately called fang-bangers are murdered, Sookie can't help getting involved.Then Sookie meets Bill and even she has to question a vampire named Bill, shouldn't they have more exotic names, and life gets even more interesting.  See Bill's one of the only people that Sookie can't read.  She calls it a disability; the ability to read other peoples minds, but how refreshing to actually find someone that isn't an open book to her.  OK, Bill might only be a mid-level vampire, but she can work with that.Sookie's innocence really is what makes this book funny, well, that and having Elvis as a bodyguard, but over all, this is a very good vampire series.  Good action, good dialogue and not your usual been there done that vampire thing.
5	1234569600	I very much enjoyed this book. I am a tad obsessed with the supernatural world and this book has a little bit of everything. Sookie is the the kind of girl I wish that I want to be: smart, funny, strong, independent, in love with a vampire. It's a must read from True Blood fans as well.
3	1234224000	I finished this book in a little over a day. After just having finished Diana Gabaldon'sDragonfly in Amber, this was a quick, simple, and much lighter read - which was just what I needed. However, I was disappointed in the quality of the writing. For one, I had found 3 grammatical errors by the time I reached page 7. The author (or possibly the editor) seems to have no firm grip on how to use commas or semicolons; commas were used erratically, and they very often interrupted the flow and cadence of the writing. Most of the time there were way too many commas in a sentence, and they were usually in the wrong places. Harris doesn't seem to know the difference between "who" and "whom," which is annoying. And she has very little imagination when it comes to idiomatic expressions. For example, I found three instances of "pleased as punch" within a span of two pages. I know these seem like trivial issues, but to a discerning reader they are upsetting.As far as the story goes, it was entertaining. I was surprised to find that the murderer was not who I expected it to be, which was nice. There could have been more character development and more fleshing-out of details, but if you're looking for a quick, easy but entertaining read, this book is for you. I personally feel that Stephenie Meyer is a better writer, and that her vampire characters are more interesting and more "believable," if you will. But if you've read all theTwilight (The Twilight Saga, Book 1)and are craving more vampire intrigue, you should try this book. I haven't yet decided if I want to continue reading this series, but I guess as quickly as they go, it can't hurt to give the next one or two a try.
5	1234137600	I would "not" suggest this for the Pre-teen or Teen reader who have finished the Twilight Series. This book is well written and has a good plot and Sookie Stackhouse has a special talent where she can read other's minds.There are a few surprises I did not see coming in this Book one. And great sadness for poor Sookie.I will not be a "spoiler" and give away anything you must read this for yourself, do it get the whole shebangwhy don't you order the boxed series or the hardbacks now? Or if you have a Kindle get it that way? Hey I just saw Kindle 2 is out. but then as an ex-library worker I love to re-read my books I have my own library at home.You will find mystery, love, romance, and true Southern Louisiana culture all rolled up in one in this book. I bought the single book 1 in paperback.But I found that Sookie Stackhouse series comes in a boxed set. But be aware that the dimensions of the actual books in the boxed sets  are a bit smaller than the actual paperback single book that I bought. Or if you need bigger font/print get the hardback or Pre-order and get the large print.Just check the dimensions at amazon when ever you buy books so you wont be surprised when buying books. The paper quality isn't that cheap quality but it isnt that pristine white/white either.But the book is a good read We have ordered the box set with amazon prime 1 day delivery for only $3.99 extra otherwise the shipping would of been FREE.
4	1234137600	It sucks you in then before you know it you are doing everything in your power to read Harris book you can manage to get your hands on
1	1233964800	Poorly written, plot and characters stick-like and unbelievable, Bill was as boring as a sack of hammers, plot was tedious and had no direction, love scenes were ridiculous. Totally turned off of this writer.
5	1233878400	I read this book before I knew that HBO was making a show based on the series.  Since I read the book, I was very interested in watching the show.  The show is similar, but the book is completely from Sookie's view point.  Therefore, most of the character story lines are made up by the show's writers.  The show also has a lot more sex in it than the book does.  I like the show, but the book is a lot better.  However, fans of the show may be disappointed by the book because it is just based on Sookie.
4	1233792000	Just a great read. I actually laughed out loud. I loved the authors ability to describe characters and scenes. I feel this book was so well written that I was really excited to find out that there are 8 more books in the series to read .Way to start a series.
3	1233792000	Well, I'm another Twilighter looking for something to fill the void.  I hoped this series would do the trick.  Sadly, the main heroine, Sookie, is highly annoying and her love interest, Vampire Bill, is such a wuss.  I can't be bothered to continue with this series.  Bubba was funny.  He's the reason I gave this book 3 stars instead of 2.
3	1233792000	After watching the True Blood series on HBO, I was very excited about reading the book.  With most book/movie comparisons, the book is better than the movie.  In this case, the series is much better than the book.  The book isn't bad, but everywhere the series varied from the book, it was an improvement and made it a higher quality product.  I am patiently waiting for Summer 2009 for Season 2 of True Blood!
3	1233705600	I work long hours and found this book an easy read, relaxing & far from the realities of our world.  Thouroughly enjoyed the book.... Michelle
5	1233705600	This book was fantastic; completely unique to anything else I've read. I picked it up after reading the Twilight series and looking for something more adult. This certainly fit the bill. It was filled with great characters and wonderful humour. I definitely recommend this!
5	1233619200	I started to read this series because I was so impressed by the television show True Blood on HBO. I loved the characters and their stories. I NEEDED to know more. Originally, I didn't like Sookie's character but after reading the first few books, I understood her better and have come to love her vulnerability and innocence. I'm currently reading Dead to the world. Dead until Dark was my least favorite so far although it was still very good. My suggestion, get through the first book. The second (Living Dead in Dallas) and the third (Club Dead) are AMAZING. I can't wait to keep reading about all of Sookie's adventures!
5	1233446400	Sookie rocks!  I had read the later books but has missed #1.  Always a pleasure!
5	1233446400	Sookie Stackhouse is not your typical protagonist. She's a telepathic waitress. Nope, no gun toting [...] kicking vampire slayer here. Not only that, but she's destined for more and rougher vampire encounters than any waitress deserves to have.Into a quiet town with no paranormal goings on moves a public vampire. Shortly after that the murders start piling up.  Obviously the locals figure the vampire at first, but soon another suspect becomes likely.  Sookie is not only caught up with these two but between them as well.  It doesn't get easier for her either as the book progresses.From unlikely heroine to confidant and brash goes this young lady is transformed.  Transformed by her experiences and by a little...oh that would be telling.  Let's just say that folks begin to notice and that just adds to the confusion.This book is not aimed at the preteens, and probably not the younger teens either.  Though it's a softer read than other vampire novels, there is murder, bloodshed, rough sex and death a plenty in this book.  Surprisingly though very little language.A fun read and not your typical vampire story.
3	1233273600	I wasn't too impressed with this book. The characters are a tad unlikeable in my opinion.  Bill is a bit strange, a bit rude, and a bit crazy.  Sookie is timid and a bit old fashioned.  Jason isn't very pleasant either. Eric was the only semi interesting character to me.  Don't get me wrong, I read through the book in a sitting or two, but it is the same formula as all the other 3 star books I've read lately.  The romance is a bit unbeliveable and fast, entirely too many people die for seemingly no reason, and the book just ends in the middle of a plot segment.  We think we are going to have Bill explain some vampire things to us, and then poof! End of book. Blah.  I will continue to read the series, it's enjoyable, though I'm not a fan of the southern accent and semi airheadedness.
4	1233273600	I picked this up after I started watching HBO's True Blood, and proceeded to devour the entire Sookie Stackhouse series. As a long time Buffy fan, it was a little hard to adapt to a different vampire mythology, but Harris has created some interesting twists, enough to keep any vampire fiction fan entertained.The sex scenes could be written a bit better. The main character, a telepathic barmaid, is also the narrator, and sometimes her range of vocabulary is lacking. The series definitely improves with later books however.
5	1233100800	Harris has a knack for individualizing each character through speech and mannerisms.  Character interactions are intense, action is fast-paced and compelling.  Great read, hard to put down and leaves you thirsting for more, which thankfully, keep on coming.
5	1233014400	Can't say much about this, I bought it for my girlfriend as a present. She read it in a couple of days, and she's already asking for the rest of the series, so I know she had a great time with it.
1	1233014400	I bought this book because it received great reviews.  I almost bought the box set because of all of the buzz the book was getting and because they made a series out of it after all.  It must be good, right?  I have never hated a book so much in my life.To start with, I had the plot line figured out from the beginning. I'm not a believer in skip to the back to see how it ends and throw it to the side.  Even if I have to force myself to finish something I'm going to finsih it and let me tell you, this one was hard to finish.  I think I may have been about half way through when something happened that I found deeply disturbing.  ***SPOILER  She has sex with bill for the first time, her actual first time, right after her grandmother dies, in her grandmothers room and bed.  How many sane people wouldn't find that a bit disturbing?I'm going to agree with a previous poster on this and say that the sexual situations in this book reminded me of trashy romance novels. The story line was poorly written in my opinion.  If the murderer can be figured out right after the murder happens, the writer didn't put too much thought into the novel.The only way I can see why they made a t.v. series out of this book is because vampires are becoming more popular lately and because HBO can give it the AC, AL, N, ratings to draw in an audience.This was nothing more that catering to bored and understimulated people who have nothing else to do but read accounts of badly dressed fictional characters.Buried this book in the back of my book shelf so I never have to look at it again.
4	1233014400	I didn't think that was possible but aparently so. There were just some parts of this book that gave me the gaping mouth followed by a "whoa." That being said, I enjoyed it. It is almost identical to the show and I plan to read the rest in order to beat the show in knowing what's going on.
4	1232841600	I bought this book after falling in love with True Blood.The book is written in narrative from Sookie's point of view. Its a good read if you are a fan of the show, and there are enough differences to keep you going. The story telling isn't as rich in the book, these books might not do it for you if you are looking for something that compares to Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. But Dead Until Dark is plenty of fun.The book is good enough that as soon as I put down the first book and ordered the box set!.
2	1232841600	I read this book after watching season 1 of the show True Blood.  I felt myself comparing the 2 throughout the book.  I prefer the show to the book.The story is well written.  But I couldn't connect with Sookie the character in the book and thought she acted foolishly, sometimes stupidly.  I felt the book was a more of a murder mystery than anything else.  The show focuses more on her relationship with Bill.  I have also grown to like the other characters in the show and felt the book was amazingly one-dimensional.  I won't be continuing the series.
4	1232755200	I first read this in 2006 and never got to another Sookie book. Since I want to see True Blood whenever it comes out on DVD, and I don't quite remember too much of the book to get to the rest of the series, I decided to re-read it.I really don't have anything additional to say to my first review, other than I'm not as picky about the romance this time around. So here's my original review from June 24, 2006:I've been in a paranormal mood lately so figured I'd pick this one up and see what's different here. While there's nothing original in the vampire front, the story was nonetheless told in a new and fresh way. Although the start seemed slow, I quickly immersed myself into the pace of the book and thought it was quite fitting to it being a southern book. I enjoyed reading about the courtship between a vampire and human, although a slightly different human. It was kind of sweet and though I thought they professed their love to each other too soon, it was still quite lovely in a strange way. The mystery was nice in that I didn't necessarily know who the culprit was. I did have a niggling of who it was a few times but wasn't quite sure. The book also had some interesting characters and I am curious to what direction(s) the author decides to go next.
5	1232582400	I thought this book was great.I like the way Harris describes the characters and the relationship between all. From watching the show first and then reading the book I enjoyed how the things in the book flowed differently in the book. I think the story was written much better in the book than in the show. If you liked the show but would like to have more information about all the "star" characters check out the books, you should really enjoy them.In the show Tara was through out the whole story but I was surprised to see that she was not even in the first book. In the show they made her character a little annoying so it was a nice surprise that she was not in the book. In the show Jason was a man-whore but in the book you don't get as much un-necessary information about him and his sexual fun with EVERYONE. I loved the way Harris wrote about the feeling between Sookie and Bill, it was very nice and sensual.It was a nice, exciting, quick read. I can't wait till I read the rest of the Sookie Stackhouse books.
4	1232496000	After finishing the Twilight Series I really wanted some other fast reads to pass the time. I decided to pick up the House of Night series and found the language to be too teen-like (target audience - but hey so was Twilight)and the story didn't really grab me as much.Then I decided to start the Southern Vampire Series and wow was I blown away. These books are just lots of fun. There are written better and there is a bit of everything in them. I really like that you learn a bit more of the supernatural world from book to book. It gives you something to look forward to. I have enjoyed all 8 books so far (#4 is my Fav) which is more than I can say for all 4 Twilight (sorry breaking dawn just took a weird turn). I now started the Anita Blake Vampire Hunter series. I see lots of similarities between these and the Southern Vampire Series, but I  like the Sookie world better.I also started to watch the HBO series since I really loved the books. I was a bit disappointed since some of the characters and story lines did deviate from the book. I think I need to re-watch it again with a different mindset. I do like what the TV series did with Lafayette and Tara (though dramatically different from the books), but at the same time sad that some people like Eric and Pam are not as they are in the book (especially Eric).
4	1232496000	Amazon offers this book at list price.Amazon no longer offers a price break?Is this a new policy:What's going on here?
3	1232409600	This is a good book, but I'd have to say the TV version of Sookie is much more appealing.  The HBO show really took time to thing things through.  The book seems rushed after watching the show.  On TV, Amy, Lawfayette, Sookie, and Tara all have great stories.  In the book, Tara does not exist and the others only get a paragraph or so. Good ideas and inspiration.  Harris wrote what amounts to a very fine screenplay.  She does have a way with words and includes a few great similes and metaphors.  Other than that, this is pretty forgettable.  Read only if a serious vampire or "True Blood" fan.
5	1232409600	So after watching the HBO series I was very interested in the actual novel series. I think HBO did an awesome job translating this novel into a tv series. For the most part is basically a word for word account with Sookie and Bill. The story how it happens in the show is more or less how it was originally written. There are very little differences in how Harris wrote the story and how it is play out on tv. A few main characters from the tv series do not appear in the novel and other character accounts are not completely spoken for. I think that with the show you can have so many story lines and I like that they are the same story lines Harris mentions throughout her story and the show just details them more but it all just fits. I wish this could have been displayed in with the Twilight movie but the I suppose Tru Blood has a little more room to be come detailed with it being a tv show.All in all I think this is a great novel and tv show. If you like vampires I think you will like how they are shown in this series.
2	1232150400	Light and fluffy and overly sweet.....not something to really sink your teeth into (sorry - couldn't resist!). None of the characters were well developed and the sex scenes were strange and uninteresting. There were never any clues as to "whodunit" - the ending was unremarkable and set the stage for a sequel (which I will not be reading). I much preferred Charlie Huston's violent Joe Pitt series (starting with "Already Dead") and Robin McKinley's intriguing "Sunshine" to the very forgettable Sookie Stackhouse.
5	1232150400	Charlaine Harris introduces readers to the most delightful new sleuth in Sookie Stackhouse to grace the pages of a cozy in a long time.DEAD UNTIL DARK is fare only to be read after dark.Nash Black, author whose titles are available on Amazon Kindle.HaintsWriting as a Small Business
5	1231891200	First off, I should say that I am one of those suckers who loved the Twilight series. However, I just read the first 7 books of Harris's Sookie Stackhouse series and I'll eat my hat if Meyer didn't read the first one before she wrote Twilight. There are just too many similarities for it to be coincidence!BUT, the Sookie books are adult books and this first one introducing the characters is a quick and delightful read. You like Sookie, who tells the story from the tiny town of Bon Temps, Louisiana. There is not only the interesting twist that vampires have always lived among us and are now accepted members of society (as declared by a Supreme Court case!), but the romance between Sookie (who happens to be the mind reader in this story) and her vamp as well as a murder mystery. So it is a busy book. It is easy to follow, however, and you do care about Sookie, even when you don't agree with her nor would you do what she does.If you like vampire stories OR light romances OR murder mysteries, this is a book you will enjoy.
1	1231891200	Save yourself some time and rent the "True Blood" DVDs. The HBO series, while based loosely on the novel, is so much better, so much more fun, so much more in-depth, and so much more creative than the book.  This could truly be one of the worst novels I have ever read; the writing was sophomoric, boring and pathetic. The storyline in the book regarding vampire Bubba's true identity is easily the most ridiculous storyline I have ever read in any novel.  It's not a surprise that Mr. Ball decided to omit that storyline in the HBO series.  I won't waste my time reading any other books by this author - ugh! *** Update, my friend had the second book, and i read it out of desperation because there were no other books to read at his lake house . . . it was worse than the first book.
5	1231804800	Charlaine Harris is a wonderful writer. She holds your attention in this book. The book is hard to put down. You can't wait to find out what is going to happen next. Great start to the series.
5	1231804800	This series is amazing! I only picked up the book because of the HBO series (which is absolute crap compared to the books, so don't be fooled), and at first thought that I'd never finish the book - it definitely wasn't my style. I gave it a chance, finished it the same day, and immediately bought the rest. It's fun, lighthearted, and fantastic (in more ways than one) - you don't want to miss out on this.
3	1231632000	This book was hard to finish, but I was determined and it struck up just enough interest to keep reading to the second one, I just finished the 4th and about to start the 5th and after the first they've been MUCH better, so this story is pertinent to the series-so suffer through it to get to the much exciting rest! :)
2	1231545600	SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERSThis is a review of the UNABRIDGED AUDIO VERSION read by Johanna Parker.Johanna Parker has a great voice and does an excellent spunky southern gal accent. Unfortunately, she is horrible at doing men's voices. The way she does Bill's voice makes him sound like a husky, breathy pseudo-butch lesbian from the L-Word. I really could not get into Bill at all partially due to this reason, I had trouble even picturing him as a man, let alone a handsome one.I could not get into the story. I only picked this up because I'm done with the Twilight series (I thought Breaking Dawn sucked by the way) and I had heard that the two were very similar, that Stephenie Meyer had stolen ideas from Charlaine Harris and I wanted to see for myself if it was true.The story is narrated by the main female character, Sookie, just like in Twilight. Sookie is a 25 year old loner who works as a 'barmaid'. I put 'barmaid' in quotes because there is a HUGE FREAKING BIG DEAL made of the fact that she is a barmaid, she keeps announcing it every chapter. IM A BARMAID IM A A BARMAID IM A BARMAID! Jeez! Okay, Sookie! Relax, we get it, you're a barmaid!So she immediately whines about her 'disability' because being able to read minds has made life SOOOO HAAAARD for her.OH PLEASE GIVE ME A BREAK! If any one of us had the ability to read minds, we'd use those powers and become extremely rich and successful. Yeah some might consider it cheating but listen, if God gives you a gift, no advantage is unfair.So after having to get over that hurdle of *suspension of disbelief* that anyone could exist who would be as stupid and as inept as to find mind reading a 'disability' and become a failure at life because of it, i gave our 25 year old virgin another chance and trudged on.So she meets a vampire at the bar where she works. His name is Bill. OH AND GUESS WHAT? Sookie can't read Bills mind! isn't that something? (in Twilight, Edward can't read Bella's mind.) And then she has to save him because even though he's been alive since the Civil War he is much too stupid to realize that two hicks he just met at a bar might actually be out to trap him and drain his blood.And then another bunch of stupidness happens that i can't even be bothered to remember. We meet Sookie's grandmother who is a typical SPUNKY AWESOME GRANDMOTHER WITH MODERN VIEWS AND THE KIND OF ASSERTIVENESS THAT ONLY AWESOME SPUNKY GRANDMOTHERS CAN GET AWAY WITH. and of course just as we are getting attached to her, she dies.there are some ridiculous sex scenes that are pretty awful and repulsive.an then... OH MY! A plot sort of drifts in. There is a serial murderer in Bon Temps!!! Oh my goodness, it might be a vampire! it might be after Sookie! it might be Bill! Wow... I might not care...Maybe Southern women will enjoy this book more, I just could not get attracted to Bill. I rather wanted Sookie to end up with Sam who seemed much more intelligent and caring. (As it turns out, Sam is a SHAPESHIFTER THAT TURNS INTO ANIMALS!!!! Hello Stephenie Meyer and Jacob!)So... Do I think Smeyer stole from Charris? Well there are a lot of similarities, the most obvious one being that both these authors chose to take the idea of 'vampire', mutilate it with their 'creativity' and serve it to us like a platter of cold refried beans.But I'm going to give Smeyer the benefit of the doubt, it's not that hard to come up with stuff like *midreader* and *shapeshifter*.Do I recommend Sookie Stackhouse to anyone? Ugh... No.
3	1231459200	Well, after Trueblood, I have to read these, and I'm enjoying this 1st one, overall.The sex scenes (I've only read 2, so far) are ok.  They're sexy, not pornographic, to my taste.I simply find it readable and engaging.  Obviously, people differ.BUT...I find a glaring plot inconsistency around the 3 trouble making vampires.Sookie discussed with Bill how vampires keep their sleeping locations ultra-secret.  Then, for some reason (like, C. Harris wanted the plot to go in a certain direction, and took the most direct route, even though it makes no sense?) *EVERYONE* knows where these 3 sleep.  DUH!!And, again, Harris needed the plot to go in a certain direction so she has Sookie almost criminally negligent in doing so little to thwart a mob.  She needed Bill to return her call.  Kinda' lame plotting, there.Well, it's not literature.  It's just fun.
5	1231459200	After finishingTwilight (The Twilight Saga, Book 1)series this summer, I was looking for a new series available on audio download to listen to during my daily commute to work. I tried readingUndead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)which was ok, but the narrator butchered accents and dialect and left me feeling disconnected from the characters. Someone suggested the Charlaine Harris 'Southern Vampire Mystery' series, and I was soon hooked.The entire audio series to date (books 1-8) has been narrated by Johanna Parker.Book one, Dead Until Dark, introduces us to our heroine, Sookie Stackhouse - a telepath living in rural Lousiana.  It is set in current times and we find that the world has been rocked by the announcement that Vampires are real and living among us. Luckily, with the invention of synthetic blood, vamps no longer require human blood to exist so they have started to integrate into society.  Sookie soon finds herself involved with a handsome vampire and hunting down a murderer.Johanna Parker does an excellent job narrating both the spoken dialog as well as Sookie's telepathic readings. The story is easy to follow, the characters are easy to distinguish, and Ms Parker handles accents and dialect without sounding cheesy or forced.This series is not as intense and angst filled as the Twilight Series.  It is fun and light... sort of chic lit with a vampire twist. Sookie's character is very likeable and you can't help but root for her.  This book was an easy read (or listen, in my case). I would absolutely recommend the audio version of this story.
2	1231372800	After watching True Blood on HBO I decided to purchase the Sookie Stackhouse novels to read.  This is the first book in the series and I was very disappointed.  The author is a very immature writer with poor characterizations and stereotypes galore.  Most of her characters are not fleshed out and those who are well developed are unpleasant to say the least.  I did not like Sookie in True Blood but I downright hated her in this book.  She uses her telepathy to make excuses as to why her life sucks and she is, at times, horribly nasty to the people who care about her.  She blames her vampire lover Bill for things he has no control over and she runs hot and cold about their relationship.  I got the distinct impression that this book was written by a ten year old and I have no idea how it got published and I will never understand how it got so popular.  I will continue watching True Blood but I am done reading any books by this author.
3	1231286400	Overall, this book was a fun interpretation of an over utilized genre.  It was a fast read, but my main issue was the ending.  No spoilers, but I was totally let down by Harris' actions of Bill, the vampire.  He is supposed to be Sookie's hero, and I am surprised that people gave this book 5 stars.  Not that all heroes are supposed to "save the day," but the route he took was similar to those seen in other books (Breaking Dawn) that killed the whole experience for me.
3	1231286400	"Summer Read" in my mind means overdone sex, campy mystery, and humor.From prior reviews I expected a mix of Evanavich's Stephanie Plum character and Meyer's Bella character but that's not what I got.I bought the whole series but will probably not read them.
5	1231113600	I've watched TrueBlood on HBO and am a huge fan, but I have to say that I actually enjoy the book more than the series.  I would recommend it to anyone who likes books by Janet Evanovich, but wants a supernatural spin.  The characters are believable and the ending's a real surprise.  Read it!
2	1231027200	While this book is written on about a 7th grade level, the subject matter is mature.  The writing was dull, the characters shallow and at times I found myself thinking "Why am I still reading this?"  Because I try to always finish a book when I start it, I pushed myself through hoping it would get better, but alas, it only got worse.
5	1230854400	Book one of the Southern Vampire Mystery series introduces young, attractive Sookie Stackhouse, cocktail waitress in a small town in Louisiana. Sookie has telepathic abilities which she and others look upon as a disability. She lives with her grandmother and cat and keeps to herself because she desires silence after hearing other people's thoughts while working.  Sookie is intrigued when she meets Bill, her first vampire, not only because he's a vampire but because she can't read his thoughts. Sookie rescues Bill from a couple intent on draining him, and she and Bill become friends, which leads to a romantic relationship.Since Bill's appearance, people are turning up dead, including Sookie's grandmother. The police initially suspect Bill but begin to focus their investigation on Sookie's brother, who had contact with each of the victims. With Bill's encouragement, Sookie uses her telepathic abilities to try to find the murderer, placing herself in danger.This is an engaging concept, a mind reader in a world in which vampires are attempting to integrate into society. Vampires drink synthetic blood and are surrounded by fans called fang-bangers, which makes for intriguing scenes. Harris provides a good read, wrapping a well-done mystery around a plethora of interesting characters, vampiric and human.
5	1230854400	I bought this book after watching the first two episodes of True Blood and could not wait until the next week to see what happens. It did not disappoint. I found the series did follow the book with a few slight exceptions. The book took me deeper into Sookie and Bill and by the end of the first three chapters I was off to the book store to make sure I had the second book. It was a very quick read and I enjoyed it.
1	1230768000	I want to apologize to Harris's fans for being so blunt.  This book, with deep respect for Anne Rice, could have been titled "Intercourse with the Vampire".Way too much talking about sex acts with the vampire that didn't need to be in a mystery.The book has potential, but, it is just not for me.After reading just over 3/4 of the book, it made Twilight look good.
1	1230508800	I cannot for the life of me understand why this book has so many positive reviews. Admittedly, I only got about half way through the book before I decided to stop wasting my time, but unless Charlaine used a ghostwriter for the second half I don't see how it would have gotten any better. The characters were very poorly developed and as far as I could tell the only reason Sookie was attracted to Bill was because she couldn't read his mind.The characters reactions to some of the events were very unbelievable (SPOILER ALERT) for example Sookie, Jason & Grandma are all having lunch and gossiping about the goings on in town then all of a sudden Jason remembers that Maudette Pickins was murdered that morning, they talk about it for a minute then continue eating their lunch and chatting about other stuff. Now I'm no small town girl but I would imagine that if you live in a small town and someone you know is murdered that it 1)Is the first topic of conversation 2) is the ONLY topic of conversation.It's easy to see why Alan Ball chose this book to turn into a TV series. The characters were underdeveloped so he had plenty of room to flesh them out and make them his own. Also all the little plot lines (and there are TONS of them in the book) that the author dreamed up but was too lazy to actually go in depth with were easy to embellish upon and make each into a separate episode.All in all I think the author had some great ideas but was too unfocused or just plain lazy to actually turn them into anything. Most times when you watch a film translation of a book there is so much detail missing butin this case it was the opposite watching the HBO version first and then reading the book I felt almost as if I was reading an outline for the script of the show. The basic plot lines are there but all of the details and emotions are missing.
5	1230508800	I love the show so much I had to get the books!  The only "problem" with the first book is I already knew most of what was to happen!  While Sookie falls in love with Bill, I found myself falling for the elusive Eric, though I'm sure the actor who played him had something to do with that as well!  Eric is definitely my favorite character, Lafayette a close second.  The only bummer is that while you get swept away with the characters, some of the characters get swept away all too soon!  Just shows the making of a great writer to make you care that much about losing characters you just met, though!  A great series, I highly recommend it!
5	1230508800	I love HBO for introducing me to the world of Sookie Stackhouse.  I find the book series very entertaining with the same dark humor.  The HBO series has done great staying with the original story line & its portrayal of the characters, and although the book series in only from Sookie's point of view, I'm finding that I enjoy the books much better than the show (and I'm a huge fan of the show!).If you are considering getting "sucked" into the book series after becoming addicted to the HBO series, I recommended it, you won't be let down.
4	1230422400	What is our fascination with vampires? Since Dracula, the myths and legends of vampires has grown. Never a huge fan of vampire novels (though I adored Angel on TV, which was spun off from Buffy The Vampire Slayer), especially after the rise of Anne Rice, and more recently, the melodrama of Laurel Hamilton.I've avoided reading books with them, if only because I found them boring and predictable. Maybe that's while I like Christopher Moore's take on vampires (Bloodsucking Fiend and You Suck, with a cameo in A Dirty Job) and the forthcoming Fool) and not the vampire love stories that are dime a dozen (and growing exponentially) in the romance section of Borders. Apparently, women find vampires attractive (and probably a subset of gay men).Which, of course, explains the success of the Twilight book series and now movie.But I digress.Enter Sookie Stackhouse, the mid-twenties hero of mystery writer Charlaine Harris' first vampire novel, Dead Until Dark. It's a breezy, no nonsense take on the vampire lore with believable and well crafted characters. It is, by far, not going to win any awards for literature, but it's a fun read and one can finish in a few hours.The premise is murky, but apparently vampires have been living amongst us for generations, and now that a Japanese company has created a synthetic blood substitute, vampires have "come out" so to speak, and are now unliving around humans. One vampire has decided to move back to his small town in Louisiana, where he encounters Sookie, who saves him from a couple who drain vampires.Now vampire Bill (yep, no poetically named vampires here) is a first mad at Sookie, but realizes that the waitress does possess a secret that intrigues him. But before their romance can start, Sookie becomes the target of a killer who is taking the lives of women who've had relationships with vampires.Harris creates some wonderfully flawed characters here and that's, perhaps, one of the better reasons to continue reading the series.This book series, also, is being used as the premise for the HBO series True Blood.
5	1230422400	Awesome book, it started out a little dry, but as soon as I got through the first chapter or so I couldn't put it down. The main character (Sookie) is so easy to relate to... The writing is just wonderful, I definitely suggest it to those who have read the Twilight series and are looking for something more adult.
4	1230336000	Still very good and a quick read. All in all a nice action book though I do not know if I will read any further in the series........I would suggest the Twilight series.
5	1230163200	What a wonderful way to escape reality.  This is definitely not my preferred genre, but after reading "Dead Until Dark," I'M HOOKED!!!
5	1229817600	like all books in her series, this one is great...i'm awaiting the 9th one in spring 09'....i love vampires - my 1st love is anne rice and c.h. is 2nd, 3rd is meyers...i also like christopher moore's humerous vamp tales...enjoy.
2	1229731200	The characters are not developed well and it's hard to enjoy the character Sookie when she is so one dimensional.
5	1229731200	Like many people, I wanted to read this book after beginning the HBO series, 'True Blood'.  I like that series, but the continuous nudity and sex scenes, to me, ruin the basic story.  I am glad to say that the book gives something the TV show lacks: a certain sweetness.  Sookie, the mind-reading lead character, is so well-drawn you immediately feel for her: she doesn't think she can have any kind of intimate (verbal or otherwise) relationship, since she's always in danger of knowing what someone really thinks.  She's insulated herself from the larger world, and doesn't believe there's an alternative.  When she meets Bill, a "mainstreaming" vampire, she's found someone she CAN'T "read", and revels in it.  To me, the murder plot was secondary to Sookie's quest to make a good life for herself, a smart and resourceful heroine (she's not afraid to get physical to defend herself or others); the secondary characters are good as well.  Bill...well, he's a sexy beast, no two ways about it.  There's a good social satire on minority rights with the emergence of the vampire community coming "out of the coffin", as it were, and the vampire groupies who've read a little too much Anne Rice (I thought it funny New Orleans is a prime vacation spot for the hip vampire). I will definitely read more in the series.
5	1229385600	I loved this book from the first chapter. Before I knew it I was finished. I would highly recommend this book. All the town's people are interesting and entertaining. An Sookie is a very fun character to follow.
4	1229212800	I am a big fan of the True Blood series on HBO.  So I decided to check out the books that the series is based on. The Southern Vampire Mysteries starting with the first one Dead until Dark by Charlaine Harris.It was very interesting to see how the book is different from the series.  It is like reading the book before you see the movie. I enjoyed book one and I am looking forward to reading the second book.
5	1229212800	my daughter loved the susan meyer series so thought she might like this new series.Since it is a gift for Christmas cannot rate book, yet service was quick with no problems
5	1229040000	I had not read any of the series, but started watching True Blood on HBO and got hooked on the show and looked forward to each new episode, so I decided to try the books.Long story short is that if you like the show you will really love the book.  All the things that are started in the show are developed more here and we get to know more about the charactors.  Sookie is the centerpiece, the naive (but not really that naive) person who can read people's minds, which is something that can be quite a task in her small town and the various people that live there.This is a perfect belnd of storytelling, humor, vampires and the occult all coming together to somehow also having a sense of normalacy among all of this.Looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
4	1229040000	Welcome to Bon Temps, a small town in northern Louisiana. Here you'll meet the adorable Sookie Stackhouse, a local barmaid with a "disability," and her boyfriend Bill. Bill the Vampire, that is. Yes, vampires are a part of society in Dead Until Dark, the first book in the Southern Vampire Series written by Charlaine Harris. In fact, vampires have come out of the coffin, so to speak, and live openly - if not fully accepted - in society.But a series of young women have been found dead in Bon Temps recently and suspicion naturally falls on Bill the Vampire. Worse, it looks as if Sookie might be next on the killer's agenda. Sookie and Bill must find the killer themselves if they want to live happily ever after, if indeed one can live happily ever after with a vampire.When an author creates a paranormal world like the one in Dead Until Dark, they must also create so-called rules for their paranormal creatures. Fiction about human beings, by and large, need not state their rules because as humans, you and I know those rules quite well. What the paranormal rules are specifically doesn't really matter. What is important is that the author stick to their rules to give the story legitimacy. Harris, I'm happy to report, excels at this (unlike another well-known vampire author who has been all the rage recently), which brings a cohesiveness to the story and keeps you comfortably ensconced in her world.Harris also creates an amusing vocabulary all her own when it comes to vampires.Vampire groupies?They're called 'fang-bangers.'A vampire's ability to hypnotize?They're simply 'glamoring' you.And assimilation, or 'mainstreaming,' into society eerily parallels the difficulties experienced by other minority groups in the American south. As light-hearted as this mystery is, there is a dark undercurrent of small-town American prejudice there for any who care to look for it.The RecommendationFor a reader who professes not to care for westerns or the paranormal, I sure seem to be picking up an awful lot of them recently. But in the case of Dead Until Dark, I'm glad I did. The book is much more light-hearted than HBO's adaptation and the characters are far more sympathetic when you meet them on the pages instead of the screen.Dead Until Dark could be considered what is often referred to as a light read, but I just consider it plain fun. Enjoyable for a plane ride or a fun interlude between more serious novels, I highly recommend it.There are currently eight available books in the series. If you suffer from series OCD like I do, you might want to collect them all.
2	1229040000	I picked this book up after watching the HBO series, True Blood, based on this book.  I figured as with so many books made into television, the book would be so much better, but I couldn't have been more wrong.  The book was very poorly written & differed so much from the series that I just couldn't get into it.  One of the main characters in the HBO series, Sookies best friend Tara, isn't even in the books!  The dialogue was horrible, Sookie was portrayed as rather uneducated in the book & seemed very shallow (after all she seemed more upset by the demise of her cat than her grandmother).  I've heard that the rest of the series of books does improve, however, I'm not wasting any more money on this series.  If you do decide to try this book out, do yourself a favor & borrow it from a friend or the library.  DO NOT waste money on this book!
5	1228953600	in a sentence or two: Sookie is a cute, charismatic, mind-reading barmaid in small town Louisiana. she desperately wants to meet a vampire - and then wouldn't you know it, she meets Bill. about that time, murders start happening in the little town of Bon Temps and vampires are the prime suspects.Sookie lives with her grandma and works at the local bar. she's a bit envious that all the vampires like to hangout around New Orleans (how can small-town Bon Temps compete with that?). lucky for her, Bill walks in and tosses her world upside down. not that it wasn't already a bit topsy-turvy, her being a mind reader and all. when she discovers that two of her less-than-desirable patrons are going to lure Bill outside for his priceless vampire blood, she decides to do something about it. but don't worry - Bill returns the favor by saving her life too.i was super intrigued by the idea of vampires being an accepted reality in the book. which gave room to more creative and thoughtful story lines other than "wehavetokeepeverythingsecret" being rehashed over and over, and was pretty refreshing. there is a good reason this book claims to be a mystery series and not merely a vampire book - there are murders happening in Bon Temps and no one can figure it out. the only clues are that the victims are women (fang-bangers [LOVE THAT]) and had an...ahem...sexual history. so along with the mystery, there is the Bill/Sookie budding relationship which adds some romance to the mix quite nicely.overall, i was really impressed. Sookie's 'gift' as a telepathic isolated her from the world (which she explains pretty well), which i thought to be an accurate prediction of what that would really be like to hear everyone's thoughts all the time. Bill is trying to 'mainstream', that is, be among the living and lead a normal life. so we get to see how other vampires choose to live, how 'fang-bangers' choose to live, and how the rest of the world views the whole thing. there are even laws as to what vampires can and can't do, and what humans can and can't do to vampires.i love a good mystery. i love a good romance. i love a good vampire book. this is all three in a steady balance with a quaint southern narration that wasn't hokey or dripping with southern drawl, but small-townish and southern enough to make you feel right at home with the characters, sipping some sweet tea on the front porch. and since is the first in a series, you can bet that i'll be visiting Bon Temps again real soon!fave quote: "This was pretty exotic stuff for a telepathic barmaid from northern Louisiana" (197)fix er up: not a fix er up exactly, but more a caution for young adult readers/adults who are recommending this to young adults. the book does contain some erotic sex scenes with Bill and Sookie. not that teens don't know about sex or shouldn't read about sex or whatever - but just a warning that there are some pretty intimate scenes. the good news is they are both consenting adults in a committed relationship blahblahblah - plus it's well written and not smutty. just a heads up.
5	1228953600	I'm not going to go over what the book was about I'm just going to tell you reviewers my take on "Dead Until Dark". I loved it!! At first I didn't think that I was going to like it but after a couple of chapters I really got into it & I couldn't put it down. I absolutly love Sookies country way of doing & saying thing. So if you are like me and love YA Fantasy then you will love this series too!!
5	1228953600	I was very impressed by the series, and the development of Sookie's character. I feel that some people were put off by her 'pleased as punch' dialogue. I'd like to point out that Sookie has lived with her grandmother most of her life and it acutually makes a lot of sense that she would pick up such expressions from her. Again, describing Bill as 'vampirey' is just part of who Sookie is, and how she would see fit to describe someone.I really enjoyed the 'mundane' tasks in Sookie's life. This is truly a first person's point of view and I feel Charlaine wrote this very faithfully in Sookie's perspective. To some people knowing Sookie is shaving, brushing her hair, or checking her word of the day calendar may seem unnecessary but I feel it's just a part of who she is.I really, really enjoyed the fact that she has a job...and goes to it. And during all the insanity that transpires in her life she still needs to ocassionally plan around her work. A lot of authors either have their story based around their characters job (cop, PI etc.) or they never mention the fact that the character goes to work. Maybe all the action convienently happens after hours? Maybe they doesn't need the money?
2	1228780800	No fewer than seventy vampire novels fill the bookshelf in my living room. Add to that another dozen or so books about vampires in movies, historic vampires and vampire trivia. There are likely another dozen books on the undead that I have borrowed from libraries and friends I don't have on hand. Yes, I know my vampires and my vampire literature and I was really hopeful when a copy of "Dead Until Dark" by Charlaine Harris landed in my grasp. I don't have HBO so getting a chance to view "True Blood" has been sadly denied me.At first, I was enjoying the book. It was becoming a nice, little vampire infested murder mystery. As a teen I'd had a subscription to Ellery Queen's Murder Mystery Magazine, adored anything Alfred Hitchcock and spent many an hour glued to the television to watch Twilight Zone. A vampire murder-mystery actually felt different and imaginative.The concept, on a whole, is rather ingenious and I'm not going to deny Harris that bit of praise. That the vampire population of the world has finally decided to make itself known and pretty much, demands to be treated as part of every day (night) society is very clever. Bars and night clubs where humans and vampires can mingle in all their Gothic glory and tourists can gawk juxtaposition with vampires who want to mainstream, that is, live as human a life as possible away from the theatrical glistening of fangs and trickles of fake blood at the corner of the mouth. It all really works.Vampire Bill Compton is a wonderful character. I cared what happened to him right from the start and that affection grew throughout the novel. Sookie's nave nature was very refreshing and yet somehow old-fashioned at the same time. It made me like her. I smiled at the amount of self-restraint Bill had to have to be around her and it really showed me his human side. They played off each other well. Sookie's boss Sam has some unexpected surprises for us, too.But, there was that dreadful moment on page 101, when I realized Harris was not as imaginative as she had first appeared. Not only that, but someone really should have done a bit of easy research and told her that Morticia Addams spells her last name with two D's, not one. The misspelling of Addams occurs in the paragraph where we are given a description of the vampire bar our dear narrator, Sookie Stackhouse, is visiting for the first time. One would think Harris could have been more creative than to merely refer back to someone else's previous works on vampire entertainment. I find it hard to believe this got past a good editor.To Quote:"It ranged from the traditional capes and tuxes for the men to many Morticia Adams ripoffs among the females. The clothes ranged from reproductions of those worn by Brad Pitt and Tom Cruise in "Interview with the Vampire" to some modern outfits I thought were influenced by "The Hunger"."This assumes readers have seen both of these movies and it does nothing to enhance the atmosphere that Sookie has walked into. "The Hunger" is set in the 1980s and can hardly be considered `modern' as far as fashion is concerned. I find this paragraph a complete and utter cop-out. Not to mention the annoyance I felt at reading the phrase "It ranged" and "The clothes ranged" in consecutive sentences. Use your own imagination and imagery, Charlaine! I know you have one in there someplace. Your plot proves it.I am very curious as to what person of Sookie's age would ever dream of using the phrases, "quick as a wink" or "lickety split", which Harris uses several times to describe doing something with great speed. I could imagine Sookie's grandmother using these terms but not a 20-something woman of the 21st century. And is there any other way for Vampire Bill to appear than by "One minute he wasn't there and then he was."? Variety is the spice of life, and the spice of good writing. Harris repeatedly, well, repeats herself.As far as where this book will be placed in my mental file of vampire literature, I regret it won't sit up there with the others as a favorite. The potential screamed at me from the start. "I want to be a good book," it said. But, for me, I became an editor instead of a believing reader on page 101. I can't respect someone writing about vampires as much as I'd like who has shown me she doesn't really know vampire literature. "Write What You Know" is one of the top five rules we writers are told to adhere to. If you don't know about something, do some research and learn all you can before you put your fingers on that keyboard. I don't feel that Harris did that. "Show Don't Tell" is another rule that Harris clearly broke the moment Sookie walked into that vampire bar. Harris told us what the clothes looked like, like something we should already have an image of in our minds, instead of telling us what she was seeing with her own eyes via Sookie.Overall, the book is okay. But how the hell it is a NYT Bestseller is beyond my imagining. I give it 2 Stars out of 5.
1	1228521600	First of all, apologies to all of you who are huge fans of this series of books.  I'm sure you'll hate this review, but remember, this is just one person's opinion.I was drawn to this series due to all of the press it's been receiving lately, and also because I'm up for a good, escapist vampire novel now and then.  I actually bought the whole box set when it came out recently, but am putting my review here (instead of with the boxed set) because I didn't even get past this first book.The book did not hold my interest at all, and believe me, I tried to like it.  I've been attempting to figure out what the problem is.  It's not the setting; I was born in Louisiana, so the setting was one of the attractions of the book.  It's not the overall, view-from-30,000-feet story; that was fine.  So what was it?I'd have to say it was more structural than anything else, for lack of a better word.  I found Ms. Harris' writing to be on par with what an average ninth grader might produce.  The characters, even the main ones, were a bit on the superficial side and weren't really fully developed.  The plot details were quite boring, not engaging at all.  The love scenes were a bit cringe-worthy, reminiscent of scenes from poorly executed smut novels (i.e. just as with smut novels, these parts struck me as nothing more than a fantasy on the part of the author).Overall, the simple fact that I found the book disappointing *IS* the most disappointing part.  That is, if I hadn't had such high hopes, it wouldn't be such a let down.  The story and characters had oodles of potential.
5	1228521600	I'm talking to those of you who have seen HBO's series and might want to experience a richer, deeper, darker, smarter and sexier take on the Southern Vampire Mysteries.Author Harris has created an addictive series in which Sookie is the center of always strange, sometimes wonderful, and often terrifying events.  Sookie is truly the heroic figure you saw in the first few episodes and not the crankypants whiner the producers turned her into.What's better about the books?  Harris writes clean prose and tells her story in a linear style without messy side trips.  And here's some good news:  skanky Jason is a fairly minor character while vampires Bill and Eric are very major.  Tara doesn't bear any resemblance to her namesake in the books and I just don't know what to say about that.Treat yourself to the fun to be had in reading this wonderful series.  Richer. Deeper. Darker. Smarter. Sexier.
4	1228435200	Just finished this book.  Purchased after I started watching True Blood on HBO.Book was easy reading and some situations were the same as the TV series, but a lot was very different.  Will read the others.Fun, easy to pick up and read.
2	1228435200	I'll preface this review by saying that I REALLY like the HBO series, True Blood. I also really wanted to like this book, but I can't say that I did. I just don't like this author's writing style. I found myself rolling my eyes quite frequently because of all of the terrible analogies and the downright corny writing. I had to force myself to finish it. I won't be reading anymore of the books in the series and, like another reviewer, I'll be looking for something a bit more substantial.
5	1228348800	Wow, What can I say I truly enjoy this seris and can't wait to read the whole Sookie Stackhouse Novels. Well written can really see the story within your head.I just wished I would have found these books sooner. Fantastic mix of romance, horror, humourous and playfulness. Would recommend anyone to read these Seris of books.Nicole Eglinger
4	1228176000	I'm not even sure how I stumbled across this book, but the previous reviews convinced me to buy it - and now I'm totally hooked.  I was actually so into it by the end that I was trying to read faster so I could turn the page and find out what happened next.  I bought book 2 immediately after finishing this, and am on to #3.  This is a great series to just get lost in.  Buy it, you won't be sorry.
5	1228089600	... so this is the perspective my review comes from. I'd recommend that anyone who likes True Blood to read the story. It's pretty simply written, and the story is actually somewhat sweet. If you're expecting the detail of the series, you'll be disappointed. True Blood is pretty faithful to DBD, but Alan Ball took his own creative liberties. Tara is not a character in DBD, so there's no root worker, no histrionics. Lafayette is a bit player (if that), and there's no V-dealing going on. And, Bill doesn't kill Long Shadow, so there's no trial. The book also ends before the series ended, and is taken up again in the 2nd in the series. The book is also written in 1st person, so the only perspective we have is Sookie's, which simplifies the story. We don't see Jason with the dead girls, for example, but only know of it from what Sookie hears. I think it's worthwhile to read books & see their adaptations, to make comparisons.A number of reviews on DBD compare it to the Anita Blake series and Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles. This is unfair. I've read the entire Vampire Chronicles, plus half of the Anita Blake books ... and I've read Twilight & a few other vampire sagas. The writers' voices are so different, as are their approaches. I just don't think you can compare a hard-boiled zombie-raiser in St Louis (Anita Blake) to the innocent voice of Sookie Stackhouse, a small-town Louisiana girl. (Sookie's voice is quite authentic; some readers are annoyed by the metaphors used by Harris, but they are very much in line with how Sookie would see things.) And, of course, Rice's vampires are totally in another league to be compared to anything!I'd recommend to take a read -- while Sookie might not compare to other writers' protaganists, that's what makes reading fun. Who wants to read cookie cutter books, with just the names replaced? When I decided to read DBD, I figured if I didn't like it, I could go back to Anita Blake and all her adoring & scheming vampires, lycanthropes, zombies, voodoo queens, etc., etc.
3	1228089600	Honestly, I am only half way through this book and already I can review it. This book is just okay for me..Snookie is very immature for being in her 20's..Bill is boring and what is up with all the Gosh, and Golly Gee's? what is this, Leave it to Beaver? I'm not trying to say that I need curse words every sentence but at the same time, She's making her sound like a 10 year old from 1950's. I'm not sure if I'll keep going with this series or not. Are the other ones this immaturely written?
2	1227916800	I guess the story of the book is entertaining enough.  Im a pretty big fan of the hbo show True Blood and decided to read the 1st book after watching a good chunk of the season.  Although the show is entertaining but definitely has its cheesy parts, the book is just as bad.  I think the thing that really gets me is this author really is an extremely horrible writer, even if she is trying to take on the southern style of the narrator.
5	1227657600	The main character is Sookie.  She ends up dating a vampire because his are the only thoughts she cannot read.  Strange mysteries begin to happen when Bill enters her life and she uses her mind-reading ability to help.  The vampires take full advantage of this ability through blackmail mainly.  There are suspenseful turns and hot moments throughout the series.The book is a little different than the show.  For one thing, her best friend is not the same in the book.  Second, the plot is a bit different.  I recommend all the books although I was mad at Sookie half the time I read them.  Sookie gets into one vampire-ridden mess after another and one hot relationship after another!  I could not put these books down but I do have to say that if I were Sookie I'd totally have been in hiding way before book two or three.  You just have to read the books to find out what happens between her and the hot vampire Bill.  Also, there's more out there in the series than vampires!I don't want to even pick up another vampire book because I know they just won't measure up.  Charlaine Harris creates an excellent plot where creatures intermingle with the living in all ways!  I have the most recent book on order and I can't wait to read it when it comes!  Hope this is helpful.
5	1227657600	I love the southern vampire mysteries.  Charlaine Harris has created a wonderful cast of characters.
5	1227398400	I bought this book figuring I'd just give it a try since I watched the Trueblood series on HBO and liked it alot. The books are sooooooo interesting. I couldn't put it down and I immediatly ordered the rest of the series!
5	1227398400	I have just started reading vampire books- and it is a shame that it took this long for me to get into them. Dead Until Dark by Charlaine Harris was a great book. I could hardly put it down. My husband gets mad at me because my book light keeps him up at night so I hid under the covers just to read it! I couldnt wait until I was ready for bed. The character of Sookie Stackhouse is easily relatable, and I like that. Overall- I dont have anything bad to say about this book- and I am about to order the rest of the Southern Vampire Mysteries series!
5	1227312000	I got hooked on True Blood on HBO and decided I needed a little more background from Charlaine Harris.  The book is great.  Written as a young woman would speak and very imaginative and descriptive.I enjoyed all the twists and turns and would even consider becoming a Fang Banger if given the chance!!
5	1227225600	I really enjoy the True Blood series and am enjoying it to the hilt.  I found this book to be a great source and it was very enjoyable to read.  In fact I read it in one day!  Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress who becomes a girlfriend to a vampire.  There are murders in her small town and no one knows who is doing them.  Her grandmother and her cat are murdered and she may be next.  Her brother is being accused of them and always has some connection to the murders.  What to do?  A very nice book and a very fun series.  I will definitely read more of the Southern Vampire Series.  I think Charlaine Harris has written a winner.
5	1227139200	Charlain Harris is one of my all time favorite writers. I have read every single one of her books and have not been disappointed yet. I over looked the books for years because I couldn't get past the cover art. I know you're not supposed to judge a book by the cover, but come on these covers are ridicules for this series... I also think it has put a lot of readers off of buying the books... My husband also never wanted to read the books because of the said cover art. I finally talked him into reading the series, and he of course loved it. I have a feeling if they update the covers it would appeal to a wider group of people and her sales would sky rocket.
5	1227052800	I fell in love with Sookie. After reading this book I couldn't wait to get my hands on the second one. I read the whole series in a week. My favorite characters are Sookie and Eric. I look forward to seeing how these characters develop. If you are looking to escape reality for a little while this is a great series to get hooked on.
5	1227052800	The Southern Vampire Mysteries is a must-read vampire story since Anne Rice.  Forget "Twilight", considering the author has completely ripped off Charlaine Harris' beautiful tale of the supernatural.You will NOT be able to put this down.  I ordered every book and every short story, reading day and night.
4	1226966400	I have been watching the HBO TrueBlood and became interested in the written series. I loved the book even better than the TV series which I didn't think was possible. It was smart, funny, mysterious and sexy. It was also easy to read.Luv'd it!!
5	1226880000	Sookie Stackhouse is one tough cookie! I read this book in under three days. Forget about cooking dinner or doing laundry while reading this. It just won't happen in any timely fashion. My son and his girl gave me the first two in this series and I didn't get to them for a while due to life's mundane issues. I highly recommend this book but warn that it can take over .
2	1226880000	I bought this book because I really enjoy the HBO sensation, True Blood. There are spoilers in this review.There are apparently 8 books in the series, and this is the first and left me unconvinced I should carry on. Unlike the show the book is done in first person entirely from Sookie's standpoint. This is very limiting because (in the show) there are many interesting characters with many different storylines. Not in the book though.Other than Eric and Bill (vampires that are 'super-hot') all of the other characters are mentioned in passing. Some included in the television show are excluded (Tara) or completly watered down (Lafayatte, Jason, Amy Burley). The extra characters that Sookie isn't thinking about getting intimate with become shadows, when people die in the book (including Sookie's grandmother) it gets all of 2 sentences of attention. When Sam reveals his big secret she throws up and carries on.Overall it's not the worst but bland and undeveloped. The show is much more enjoyable.
5	1226880000	I absolutely love the fast pace of this book which only propelled me into reading all eight of the books in this series in one week.  Yes, I'm totally serious.  Of course, since I had them all sitting there - I would grab the next as soon as I finished the previous.  Okay, I got laid off and I'm home with my little kids.  Every time they were playing nicely together or sleeping I was devouring the books!!!I love Sookie's character and how easy it seems to be to fall into her mind and follow her story.  She's pretty, confident, smart and misunderstood and always polite no matter the totally bizarre situation.  I just love all of the characters.Also, you should know that I have been watching True Blood on HBO and found myself mildly addicted...when I found out that the show was based on a book, I was in a panic to read this book immediately and subsequently stayed up until 4AM to finish it once it was in my hand.  (perhaps more than a mild addiction?!)HOWEVER, some of the graphic stuff on the show is a little disturbing to my fragile little mind.  At least when I'm reading, I can picture things as PG-13 as I want (everything but the romance parts!) :)After reading the entire series of books, I far prefer them to the show...but I still watch with anticipation.  I would HIGHLY recommend these books.BEWARE!!!  If you read this book you will want to read the next (and the next, and the next...)  The hangers at the end of the show seem to replicate the feeling you have at the end of the books...keep 'em coming!!!
5	1226880000	Absolutely have to read!This book is the one you absolutely have to read! I am not a reader, and I am re-reading this book second time right now. I started to watch "True Blood" on HBO, and couldn't wait for next episode for whole week, so I decided that I'll read. I was afraid that that will be difficult for me, because the English is the third language for me, but this book is written easy to read have a lot of action, mystery and love in very realistic form. After I finish reading first book, I started next until I finished all 8 books and now can't wait to the 9-th book, which will be publishing in May 2009. I hope one day that book will be translated to other languages as well.
5	1226707200	The first novel in the series is very promising. The protagonist is an eccentric psychic with a complicated family history (which I hope we learn more about in the later novels.) The plot is set in a small town in Louisiana with an array of interesting minor characters. The sense of place adds richness to the novel. The romance is hot. It's a cliche, but I just could not put this novel down. The author's forceful writing and plotting kept it flying. The males attracted to Sookie offer her quite a variety to choose from. The novel has quite the body count & I wouldn't read it right before bed, but other than that, I can't think of any downside. I think romance fans who wouldn't consider novels about vampires or other supernatural elements should give it a try. Very well written!
4	1226707200	Entertaining,  The books are better than the HBO series,which is often the case.
5	1226534400	it is different than the True Blood series but worth reading. I don't usually read vampire stories but I really do like this series.
5	1226448000	This first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series is a real winner. I enjoyed it so much i bought the rest of the series immediately!
5	1226448000	I absolutely loved this book -- the first of Charlaine Harris' Southern Vampire/Sookie Stackhouse series!  It's also fun to see how much HBO followed Charlaine's story line on their "True Blood" series.  It's an easy read, and Charlaine's writing transports you into the word of mainstream and back alley vampire "living."  I couldn't put it down and was kind of disappointed when I was done...good thing there are several more books in the series!  Don't stop writing about Sookie and Vampire Bill, Charlaine!
2	1226448000	I read "Dead Until Dark" because Alan Ball loved it and I thought to myself, any guy who wrote Six Feet Under has to have pretty good literary tastes. Wrong. No. I honestly don't understand the positive reviews this book is getting because I thought it read like a cheesy romance novel. The first couple chapters were okay, but as Sookie became more and more reliant on her vampire lover, any shred of independence and quick thinking present in her character were demolished.If you're into romance novels, read this. If, like me, you'd rather read about star-crossed lovers that don't make you want to barf, pick up pride and prejudice.
5	1226448000	I read this 1st book really fast and handed it down to the rest of the family who also enjoyed it very much.  This was purchased before I got my Kindle but now when I finish the next in the series, I just click to purchase the next book.  Love this since it is the kind of book you cannot put down easily and having the next book available immediately is a joy.  Sookie is charming and I love her gift.  Bubba is sooo strange a vampire and you will be amazed when you find out who he really is.  Book 3 is probably the best in the series and I loved the ending.  As you can see I am being very vague kuz I do not want to give anything away but this is not a stupid bloody vampire book and it really holds your interest with Sookie reading minds, werewolves, ancient gods, shapeshifters who change to dogs, bats and other things and very funny in parts.
5	1226448000	I read a lot of books, but I also have a hard time finding books I really can't put down. This is absolutely one of these books. Well-written and it grabs you!
4	1226361600	Frankly, I bought the book because I was hooked on the TV series "True Blood" and wanted to see how the book compared to the TV version.  This is sufficient reason for fans of the TV show to read the book since the differences are significant and tell their own story of how Alan Ball decided to tell the same basic story in video rather than paper.  Tara isn't in the book, to pose one example that isn't too spoilery.Charlaine Harris has also contributed her own variation on the vampire theme and while it may not be as literary as Anne Rice's works, this is a very good read and its unique view of the vampire myth can easily suck you in.  In addition to the usual literary construct of the vampire story - great strength, neat powers and immortality in turn for exile to the night and having to feed on the living - she's added the dilemma of some vampires who decide to live openly and seek social acceptance.  Neat idea and she develops the theme well.  I liked Dead Until Dark more than enough to move on to the second book, "Living Dead in Dallas."Caution - and you already know this if you've seen "True Blood" - explicit sexual content.
4	1226188800	I decided to read this series after falling in love with the television show True Blood on HBO. If you like the show, you will like the book. They are VERY similar. In the beginning, I thought the screenplay was taken directly from the book. Towards the end there are some subtle differences. We'll have to wait for the season to end in two weeks to see how different the two really are. Some differences that ruin anything for anyone are: Layfayette is just the cook in a couple scenes, "V" isn't in the book, and Tara is not a character.
4	1226102400	This book was a great short story.. I had seen the HBO show first and then decided to pick this up when I saw it in a bookstore. However, i have to say, its not a spectacular read. In a nutshell its a well-written, simple romance novel with no depth. I never really cared that much about the characters.I'm sad to say, I think the HBO show goes into greater depth with each of its characters.
4	1225843200	I really did enjoy this book and I have recommended it to several people.  I'm also a fan of the HBO series True Blood and they are not exactly alike, which is really nice.
4	1225843200	Quirky, small-town characters collide with the world of the vampire. Sookie is a charming, fallible, and extraordinary likable heroine. Bill, Eric, and Pam radiate all that we've ever found sexy about the "pulseless." Add a cast of rich minor characters and you've got a winner of a series. I'm hooked!
5	1225756800	Charlaine Harris does an awesome job of bringing her mythical world to you in a realistic presentation. I had read the Twilight series first (including the last bomb in the series) and was really impressed by how uch superior this book was to any of the Twilight saga books.
4	1225584000	Dead until dark is a wonderful read..love scenes could be a little hotter, but a great book as is.  I had to buy all the books because I have been bitten. Oh and Bill Compton is too cute.
5	1225584000	I read this after being hooked on True Blood on HBO.  I really like these books.  I am starting the next one tonight.  I have read a lot of different vampire  books and I enjoyed this because it is funny and scary.  I really liked almost all of the characters.  I definitely like Sookie better in the book.
5	1225584000	This series of books has been really great fun to read they are also very funny Ms. Harris has done a knockout job with this series of books!! I highly recommend these books to anyone who wants a page turning can't put down the book type of series..
5	1225584000	I just finished all 8 books in the series, this first one is my favorite, may read it again.  Fun!
4	1225497600	Possibly one of the greatest pleasures of Charmaine Harris's Sookie Stackhouse series is that not all of her vampires are Byronic sorts standing apart from the rest of society who was to pose and sulk. There are no silly harpischords or lace cuffed shirts in her vision of the vampire world: most of her vampires want nothing more than to "mainstream" (as they call it) into contemporary society, and thanks to the invention of a cheap Japanese blood substitute, they have been able to do so. Part of what distinguishes her excellent Southern Vampire mystery series--and what made it such a natural to be translated into HBO's recent series TRUE BLOOD--is how thoroughly Harris has thought out her brave new world: though this book, the first in the series, keeps almost entirely to a small corner of Northern Louisiana (the fictional town of Bon Temps), she seems to have thought out her alternate universe before it started as thoroughly as JK Rowling thought out hers. But Harris's world is decidedly one for adults: her vampires and humans and shapeshifters decidedly have sex with one another, and there's an agreeable amount of genuine horror mixed in with the humor and the local color.Harris can also keep a lot going, and one of the things Alan Ball wisely has carried over into his HBO series is her fondness for jolting cliffhanger scenes; it is genuinely hard to put this book down. Her main vampire, Bill Compton (how refreshing, as her narrator Sookie Stackhouse points out, not to have a vampire named something silly like Antoine!), is seen pretty much in the round as a courtly veteran of the Civil War who behaves chivalrously to those he likes even if he's apt to kill those who cross him (or threaten his beloved, the telepathic Sookie, of whom he is animally possessive). The twentysomething Sookie, unfortunately, is not quite as delightful as you'd like her to be (or as Harris seemingly intends), and since she's our narrator we have to hear a bit more about what she wears to every event she attends than you could possibly want. (Although this might be very typical of a young and pretty Louisiana woman living in a small town, a little of her endless descriptions of her outfit goes a very long way.) But the story is still agreeably paced, the mystery at its core is both suspenseful and intriguing, and the descriptions of local color are quite fine. As pure pleasure reading, this is quite good stuff.
3	1225324800	I was initally excited about reading this book as I am a fan of vampire novels and mystery/adventure, but I was sorely disapointed by the fact that this book had very little mystery or adventure in it and was based mostly around the sexual relationship of the main character with a vampire. There was some very unique and original images throughout, but all in all it fell kind of flat to me, in the sense that the plot was a little predictable. This being said I can see why someone else would like to read this book (or series)it just did not appeal to me.
5	1225324800	I love Bill and I hope that her last book is a Sookie and Bill love story once again.  It was sweet and hot all wrapped together.
5	1225324800	This story is great.  I had been looking for a series to read and boy did I find it.  She is a great author.  I have read all of the vampire series now and have started on her grave series, Teagarden series and Shakespeare series.  These book are very easy to get involved with.  They are a fast and addictive read.
4	1225324800	This is a good start to a series.  Charlaine Harris does an excellent job of setting up her world and giving you the backgrounds of all the characters.  She gives you enough to get you totally interested and wanting to learn more.  There's pretty good interplay and interaction between the main characters to get you to care.  I enjoyed how Ms. Harris introduced politics and how society views vampires into her story.  I bet it plays a bigger part later in the series.  I enjoyed how the twists and turns of the story made sense and furthered the progress of the storyline.  Too many first books in the series use twists to shock the reader but don't make sense for the future books.  I haven't seen the series on HBO, Tru Blood but have heard that it closely follows the books.  So far I recommend this book to anyone looking for a paranormal book with a slightly different outlook.
5	1225324800	I really enjoyed this book. I have been reading it along with watching the series that is currently airing on HBO. I love this aspect of vampires and humans falling in love and the challenge of the unattainable.  This book reminds me of Twilight kind of you have to read it to see, but this book comes to a close second after the twilight series. I will be working on reading the rest of the Sookie Stackhouse novels. Definately GOOD!!!
5	1225238400	Great book, just the start of great series of escapades of Sookie. On HBO this season although tv show not as great as the books.
3	1225238400	I discovered these books when HBO's Trublood was about to air on TV for the first time.  As a fan of Alan Ball's Six Feet Under I decided to give the show a try and I also figured I'd try the source material out as well.This first book was ok.  It's actually very close to the TV show (or I guess I should say the show's close to the book considering it's based on the books) so I knew some of what was happening as I read it.Truth be told, i haven't been overly impressed with the series.  It's solid, not great, not horrible.  I found the book to be the same way.Everyone knows the premise of the story I'm sure.  Telepathic girl meets vampire, girl falls in love with vampire, girl and vampire are at odds with their odd relationship.  You'll have that when one of you is alive and the other isn't.It's hard not to make the comparison to the Twilight books.  Humans loving vampires, and some other things (which I will not spoil) that the two have in common.  This book differs in a couple of areas.  First off it takes place in the southern USA and secondly, Vampires have made themselves known as real creatures to the populace of the world.The 'comming out of the coffin' of the majority of vampires is actually a very cool twist on the vampire mythos.  That makes the book interesting.  The characters, however, aren't all that interesting.  They just don't seem to come alive, for lack of a better word.Sookie goes back and forth from accepting and desiring vampires (Bill in particular) to loathing their nature, as if a leopard can change its spots.  I know that character conflict is the cornerstone of any drama, but the constant mindset shift that happens on just about every other page gets old.  Almost as if to say 'vampires are ok by me..as long as they totally go against their nature and act human..when they're anything but human'.  To me that sums up Sookie's character.The supporting cast ranges from ok to really forgettable for the most part.As I said, it's hard not to draw comparisons between this book at the Twilight series of books, but I really have to considering the similarities between the two (not all of which I've touched on) and for me, Twilight wins hands down.  Not to say the core of these stories isn't interesting, but Twilight just reads more addictively and is overall more fun to read.
5	1225238400	I was turned on to this book/series by the new HBO series True Blood.  I was very surprised to find the series is following the book fairly closely.  This book is about Sookie Stackhouse telling you her story. She's a mind reader and falls in love with a vampire since their coming out 4 years earlier.  Besides being a mind reader she's a waitress in a bar.  Her mind reading ability (or disability as she sees it) has made her social life next to impossible.  Her attraction to Bill the vampire starts out due to the fact that he's a vampire and she can't hear his thoughts.During Sookie's life with Bill there is also a murder in town, killing women who are involved with vampires.  This is the clincher for me in this book.  It gives you not hint at all as to who the murderer is.  I won't say, but it will be shocking.  Jason, Sookie's brother, is suspected in the murders as he has involvement with each victim and a fascination for video.Sookie will meet other vampires in her adventures with Bill, Eric being the next most interesting vamp.  It seems as though Sookie and Eric has a budding relationship or possibly could have one.  Perhaps the 2nd in the series will open this up.  Bill is a bit of a love hate relationship.  He's very protective of Sookie and at times very frustrating.Sam, Sookie's boss, is a whole different thing.  I've been wondering if he's entirely human or something like Bill since the start of the show.  The mystery of Sam is in itself a page turner.  If you find Sam a bit annoying on the series, you'll love him here.If you are looking for a exact replica of the HBO series you won't find it.  This is written in the first person, narrated by Sookie herself.  There is no Tara in this book and Jason isn't quite the goomba he is on screen.  However, it is an excellent read with the mystery making it a page turner.  Can't wait to read the next book and see what's next for Sookie and Bill
5	1225065600	I loved the early books the best.  It was more vampire and focused less on secondary characters which I found was an issue in later books.  The vampire centric theme in the early books made them addicting and riveting.This books sets up the others nicely.  I found they got better and better.Initially Bill was the heartthrob and I was Team Bill.Villian: 4Plot: 4.5Creativity: 5Uniqueness: 4Humor: 4Bringing the sexy: 4Passion: 4.5Dullness setting in on Series: 0Laughs & Amusement factor: 4Silly Whiners getting on your nerves: 0Lazy Author repeating too much from prior chapters: 0
5	1225065600	Wow....what a surprise.  I was bored to start this book, I didn't know what to expect.  Boy, was I surprised!  I couldn't put the darn thing down!  I have to say, though, I was a little shy at the sex scenes.....but that's just cause I'm weird about that...they weren't tacky or anything.  What a great book!  I just bought the boxed set, since when I ran out to Barnes & Nobel to get the rest in the series, they didn't carry ANY of them!  Boooo!
5	1225065600	"Dead Until Dark" is one of the most original takes on vampires in literature. The Japanese invent synthetic blood and suddenly vampires "come out of the coffin" to live openly among men, but face the prejudices and dangers many minorities (gays being the best parallel) confront in American society--brilliant! (And HBO is doing a brilliant job bringing the novel to life in its series "True Blood," a must see.) The novel is set in rural Louisiana and is the first of a series  of novels focusing on the lead character, Sookie Stackhouse, a barmaid at the local watering hole, and her romance with vampire Bill Compton, a born and bred Southern gentlemen who was turned into a vampire on his way home from fighting in the Civil War. Sookie is almost as frowned upon as the vampires because she can hear people's thoughts. And there is another supernatural being at work (I can't reveal that one!). The author creates a setting that is vivid and believable, draws characters that are likable and engrossing, offers a wry and sometimes laugh-out-loud sense of humor, and ultimately crafts a world (or "universe," to use the sci-fi term) that pulls you in and makes you feel right at home. This novel is spectacular, and leaves you dying (pun intended) for more. Fortunately there is more--six more Sookie Stackhouse novels. (And HBO is working on Season Two of "True Blood.") Even if you're not a horror literature fan (and I'm by no means an avid reader of horror), you'll love this tale.
4	1225065600	Ok, I admit I read this becausa I am a TrueBlood follower.  But, I am happy I did.  Ms. Harris has made me laugh out loud and I must say that I am a Sookie Stackhouse fan (and Vampire Bill is my Southern Gentleman hero). The twist and turn of the plot kept me guessing - I am off to read book 2 (Living Dead in Dallas)
5	1224979200	I loved the 8 Books written so far in the series and was very happy to learn that HBO was making it a series. Although it has been almost a year since I read Wait Until Dark, I have the benefit of seeing it again on screen from the perspective of Book 8 hindsight. Although Tara in the books has a much smaller part then Tara on HBO - the value is that Alan Ball took the role of Tara in Sookie's life over the entire book series and condensed her role so that the importance of Tara's friendship in Sookie's life is seen from the start of the HBO series instead of waiting until later books.I love the fact that the series is mostly true to the book with just a little enough variety to keep fans of the book engrossed in the series as well. Thanks Ms Harris and Alan Ball for bringing Sookie to life on the screen! Very few books translate to the screen with equal greatness but this (fortunately) is one of them!
4	1224979200	This is a really fun read even if vamp novels aren't normally your thing. I ended up buying and reading all 8 of the books in this series. The new series on HBO, TRUE BLOOD is based on this first book. It's addicting.
3	1224979200	For me I just could not get into this book.I walked past it and picked it up dozens of times. Finally I bought it.It just seems to be going so slow. I am a little over half way and I hope I can make it through the book.I really hope something happens that makes me like the book as much as others seem to.I am just not feeling the love. Sorry Sookie.
5	1224806400	I got these books for my wife and she Loved them ! She is now completely addicted and read the whole series within about two weeks! Thanks!
5	1224806400	Dead Until Dark is one of the best books i have ever read. once i started reading it i could not put it down.I love the sookie character in the book it almost makes me wish that i were sookie.
5	1224806400	I had never heard of this series but as soon as I saw an interview with Charlaine Harris and what the stories were about I had to read them. From page one I was enthralled and couldnt put the book down. All the characters are amazing. Each quirky in their own way but very real to a certain point. I would recommend these books to anyone who enjoys a good mystery along with laughs and romance.
5	1224806400	I love to read, no two ways about it. Unless a book is so dull it puts me to sleep, I will try it.  I watched the first True Blood HBO espisode and thought I would try the book series it was based on.  I hit the jackpot!! This book series is as good or better than the HBO shows.  I have ordered and devoured every published book and short story is this Southern Vampire Series.  These stories are written with the same witty style of the Janet Evanivich series, but with more substance.  I thought "bubble gum" and got a top of the line 5 course meal.  Yes, it's about vampires coming out of the closet to the world, but the way it's written you can't help but wonder if it could come true. Main character  is Sookie Stackhouse, a naive, wholesome, down-home girl who is hungry to be accepted as "normal" which is hard to do when she can hear everyone's thoughts, like it or not. You will find yourself identifying with Sookie and rooting her on as she meets her first love, and breaks her heart.  I can't wait for the next one to be published.  You won't regret trying this first book, but be forwarned- Sookie is addictive.
5	1224633600	I started reading the book once the show came on HBO. The book has a great flow and the series is great because it always gives a "flashback" like in soap operas so you can remember what happened before that book. I highly recommend this series if you are a vamp lover!
3	1224633600	If you love True Blood then you'll like this book even if it does give away a lot of the current plot line.  However, if you love the CHARACTERS on True Blood then you won't like this book as much.  The Sookie of the book is not the same intelligent, strong willed, caring person that you see on the show.  The book Sookie, actually comes across at times as a dumb blonde.  And I was floored that Tara, one of the best characters on the show, isn't in the book at all.  The story is good and nice and juicy at times, but the writing is a bit weak.
4	1224547200	I read this book because the HBO seriesTrue Bloodhooked me. I'm a sucker for Anna Paquin and love Alan Ball, so this show was right up my alley and I figured the book might be too.Within the first chapter or so, I decided I would finish Dead Until Dark (I hate to stop a book midway through), but probably wouldn't continue on to the next books in the series. Sookie Stackhouse's tale just wasn't gripping me. Somewhere around the middle of the book, though, my opinion changed -- maybe the story just took a bit to chug up to full speed, or maybe I was finally able to get out of the TV show mentality (for the book, as always, is different than the movie).Sookie, the heroine, is charming, self-aware, and more than a little tongue in cheek. She also happens to be a telepathic waitress who works at a dive bar in Louisiana, a state that draws vampires to it like a moth to a flame. Couple that with Sookie's seemingly magnetic ability to bring trouble to her doorstep, and you end up with a rollicking good time.Dead Until Dark is a love story, mystery, and fantasy novel. It works extremely well on all fronts, except for maybe the love story portion. Sookie holds up her half of the relationship quite well, but Vampire Bill seems a little TOO cold and distant. He supposedly has these deep reserves of emotions and passion, but it's very hard to detect that. As a result, it sort of feels like Sookie is dating a robot. A super strong robot.Overall, a great story that is worth reading.
3	1224547200	This book is the basis for the HBO show True Blood which is the reason why I picked it up.  It's a great easy read with a little sex and blood.  You don't have to concentrate much.
5	1224460800	I started reading Dead until Dark based on the suggestion of my mother and also because she knew I loved the Twilight series. I found the first novel to be just as addictive as the Twilight series, but nothing like it in a  good way.  I didn't have HBO so I didn't know about the series.  But if it's anything like the book, I fully expect it to be a hit.  The first book in the series is charming, witty, frightening and sexy (very sexy) in a bad boy/bad girl kind of way.  You can feel the attraction coming off the pages.  But that's not the only thing.  These books have all the suspense and drama that you crave from a mystery novel.  And I have fallen in love with Sookie Stackhouse from the first page.  She is an endearing character who I look forward to reading more about her.
4	1224374400	I read this book in one day on the train. I really loved the story and the relationships that developed. The setting of the book is probably one of my favorite parts. The relationship between Sookie and Bill is very raw and sexy. There wasn't a single dull spot in the entire book. I picked up the second book and will read that. I am a little concerned that this series will turn into a romance junker, I really hope it doesn't.
5	1224288000	This is a great book that sucks you in from the beginning and keeps you there til the very end! It leaves you wanting more ... good thing there are more to read!
5	1224201600	I've never read a book such as this one, it's a fantastic book!!! I couldn't get my hands off of the book, it's so addicting. I ordered the first four books and will be placing a order for the other four books. I can't wait to see what else is in store for me, I am so excited!!!
4	1223683200	Interesting update of the vampire story, set in the new South.  Plot moves quickly and holds your interest.
5	1223683200	HBO is showing a new series this year titled "True Blood." The TV show is based on Charlaine Harris's book Dead Until Dark.Based on is perhaps not true. The series follows the book almost exactly. I suspect that the first season is the first book in Ms. Harris's Southern Vampire Mysteries staring Sookie Stackhouse and the second season, I do hope there will be one, will be the second book.The modern Ms. Stackhouse finds love with a Civil War veteran, Bill Compton, some 170 years her senior. Talk about a June-December relationship! Of course her friends, neighbors and some family members don't approve of the relationship. Not because of the age difference, rather because Mr. Compton is a vampire.The Japanese have developed a synthetic blood allowing vampires to come out of the coffin and mainstream in normal Louisiana society. Gory murders galore happen and the vampires are, of course, accused. Sookie uses her ability to read minds to help solve the crimes.Sookie is also called on by the vampires to assist in solving crimes within their community of true blood suckers, hangers-on called fang bangers and employees just trying to earn a living among the dead.The Southern Vampire Mysteries are a mix of science fiction, horror and crime novels, a mixture I have not been previously exposed to. I am glad I have been. They are a great read. The one problem reading the books, I've bought all of them and am reading them in order, is that I know what is going to happen on HBO.
5	1223596800	Dead Until Dark is the first in the "Sookie Stackhouse" series of books by Charlaine Harris. I had decided to buy the first book after watching the series, True Blood, on HBO which is based on the book. I was hopeful that the book would be well-written and I was rewarded. I couldn't put it down, and finished it the day after I received it (standard shipping and it was at my door in 2 days, nice work Amazon!). I've since ordered books 2 and 3 in the series.The writing is solid, and the story is told from Sookie's point of view. Vampires have "come out" to the world after a synthetic blood was created for them in place of human blood. There are tensions between the recently outed vampires and human beings, but Sookie Stackhouse wants to meet one. A psychic waitress who has trouble relating to people herself, Sookie is ecstatic when Bill the vampire sits down in her section of the bar she works in. Due to her mind reading ability, she is constantly focusing on keeping peoples' thoughts out of her head. Imagine her excitement when she realizes she can't hear Bill's thoughts! Throw in a promiscuous brother, a bar owner in love with Sookie, a vampire bar, a feisty grandmother and a few unsolved murders and you have a book that never lets up. It's no great literature, and I would actually give the book 4.5 stars (I rounded up) but the writing is solid and the book is entertaining, which is all it's claiming to be. You'll burn right through it and want to get to the next one. :]
5	1223510400	I started reading it after the first episode of the TV series, the actors don't reflect exactly the character appearance but I like better the actors..This is a great, awesome, thriller, not so scifi, sexy romance book series, you have everything in it.
3	1223337600	I've read Vols. #1 & #2 and I have to agree with a previous reviewer--the books are only OK. The True Blood HBO series is doing a better job with creating more depth in the supporting characters; creating a sub-plot to Sookie and Bill.  I'll probably read the rest of the series if only to see how HBO will handle some of the funny twists and turns that take place and that's just in Vols. 1 & 2.  After all it is a comedy, a dark comedy, but a comedy nevertheless.
4	1223337600	Like other readers, I picked this one up because of HBO's True Blood series.  My niece loves these and has read several volumes.  I gave it a read and, well, I thought is was pretty good.  Not great - but pretty good.  The cover is very misleading - at first (before the show even started) I thought it was a young teen book so I didn't bother.  Well, it's not.The problem is, I read the first volume and wasn't motivated to read the others.  Not really sure 'why' but I think its the way the story is presented.  I read the entire Twilight series and loved it - they do not compare, so a reader cannot simply assume that if you like one you will like the others.  Not that one is worse than the other, just different. Both are from the perspective of the main character, but both are presented rather differently.I think the problem may be the flow of the story.  Harris' writing style is great but gave me a little bit of a headache - I found myself sounding like I had a southern accent in my head while reading.  The book is from Sookie's perspective composed of a series of short 'matter of fact' sentences, almost like ramblings of a southern girl.The story is good, you just need to get used to the writing style.
4	1223164800	I first decided to pick up this book after i had heard about the HBO series being made.  I was going off to college so i didn't think i was going to get a chance to watch it so i thought the next best thing to do would be to read the book.  I started out liking vampire books how most girls start out.... with twilight.  Seeing as there are no more to read i thought i would try something new.  If i thought this story was going to be something along the lines of twilight i was dead wrong.  When i picked this book up i couldn't put it down.  Going to class was a pain for the fact that i would have to stop reading for a certain amount of time.  I would say that it's more of an adult book with more adult content than twilight is but that doesn't mean that its all porn.  This story was exciting and kept me guessing all the time.  And it was a thrill when i got up to college and found out that our rooms get HBO so after finishing the book i was able to start watching the show.I really enjoyed it and suggest it for anyone looking for a good thriller.
5	1223164800	i could take it are leave vampire books ,but i have falling  completely in  love with charlaine stories of southern vampire bill and sookie strange love story.i also got into watching true blood every sunday night.so i'm totally hook waiting for book two.
4	1223078400	I too, am one of those people who first tuned into the show, before realizing it was based on a book series. I have to admit I became engrossed in the show. I like most HBO shows for their dark take on stories and exaggerated 'realism'. But, I especially liked this one. I did however think the show though, had an 'irrelevant to the plot development' amount of graphic sex that didn't do much for the interesting story line, but nonetheless I really really liked it. I haven't been drawn to a scifi type show in, well -forever. Especially vampires. But I'd be rating Alan Ball, the creator, on that I guess...Anyway, to my point... I bought the first book after loving the first couple of episodes... I thought it gave a realistic as far as people go view on the south in some respects, and I came to see the southern setting rather 'romantic' after watching the show and reading the first book actually. Which has taken me a while considering I am from the south Maybe I have a morbid sense of romanticism, but it's a good story and show if you have HBO... Sookie's speech can be a little contradicting to her somewhat intelligent thoughts, but it's kind of endearing. I thought some of the sex scenes, like the show, were a few too many... Sort of like filler...Overall- I think it's a good mystery and love story and I plan on buying the next book in the series...
2	1223078400	I'm going to give the books time to grow on me only because the show on HBO has me hooked and I can't wait to see what happens. People keep telling me to stick with it because the later books are better reads , and I'm going to try my best, but good gosh the books are not that great. Conversations and actions are choppy, and the story just doesn't flow right. When I'm done reading the entire series, and if I change my mind I will also change my review, but as of right now this series gets a 2 Star from me.
3	1222992000	I bought this book because I've seen 4 episodes of true blood on HBO and I liked it. I figured that I might as well read the books because books are always better than the shows or movies that are based off of them. Right? Not in this case.The main charachter is anoying, and very contradictory. Sometimes shes very stupid and other times shes very smart. I really don't understand where shes coming from most of the time. That charachters that have the potential to be the most intresting (Vampires) are not properly used. I want to know more about these guys I want a better backstory and honestly it just wasnt there. Im not saying that the characters were written poorly but they have so much potential that its a let down reading about them and seeing how little depth the author decided to give them.There is a ridiculous amount of sex in this book, but its poorly written sex. I found that it to be the kind of sex that a fifteen year old boy would write about. I dunno I just didnt find the sex that intresting and honestly it was pages wasted that could have been devoted to something like I dunno charachter development.The story itself is intresting and managed to keep me reading. All in all It was a decent book that left me feeling disapointed at the end. Im going to have to read the next book to see if things improve if not I guess I'll stick to the show
4	1222732800	I found this book to be a fascinating spin on the Vampire books out there. It takes place in the modern world and I was at first afraid it would be to modern in its wording and the phrases. I was excited to find a lot of chivalry and strong heroes in the book. However, my kudos go to Mrs. Harris developing Sookie. I agree with the reviewer who found her more interesting than the Vampire history. She is one tough cookie and reminds me of the heroine from the fever books.I do however have a problem watching the HBO show...there are some differences and I understand the show has to be more out there to attract viewers - so if you are looking for the books because you like the show on TV - you will absolutely adore reading them!
5	1222560000	I stumbled upon Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series by chance one day at the bookstore, and decided to give Dead Until Dark a shot; I was not disappointed!  In Dead Until Dark, Harris introduces the reader to a world not too unlike our own save for one critical difference - vampires exist and have made their existence known to the world two years prior.  Sookie Stackhouse is a small-town, Southern waitress who must cope everyday with the difficulties of her "disability" - telepathy.  Her ability often causes her to know the secrets of those around her, despite her best efforts to remain closed off from such knowledge.  But when a vampire by the name of Bill Compton comes to Sookie's small town of Bon Temps, Sookie encounters the first person whose thoughts she cannot hear and is instantly attracted.Following on the heels of Bill's arrival in Bon Temps are the grisly murders of two young women who have ties to the vampire community.  The town is thrown into turmoil, and Sookie must try to discover who the murderer is using her telepathy before she herself becomes the next victim.Filled with intriguing characters, suspense, and just enough humor to keep you laughing, this is a wonderful book about a woman who discovers there is more to the world than she imagined and that, yes, she does indeed have a place in it.  Be forewarned, however - once you read this book, you won't be able to resist reading all of the others in this series.
5	1222560000	I love these books. I finished the first one about a week ago after seeing the first two episodes of True Blood. I immediately went out and bought the second book, which was even better than the first.If you're looking at this because of the show, you may be a little disappointed because there are a lot of small differences. However, in my opinion the book trumps the show any day.
5	1222473600	WOW!  I bought this book (the first of the Sookie Stackhouse Novels) after I watched the first episode of TrueBlood on HBO.  I could not put it down!!  I finished it in 2 nights!!  I worried at first that reading the novels may spoil the show for me, like I would know what was going to happen next, but that is not the case....It has made me really even more excited to see how the book plays out on film...  I am not a big reader, I hardly have time, but suddenly, for this book, I made time...  You will love it... Buy it...
3	1222387200	Dead Until Dark is a book I've walked by dozens of times.  I'd stop, pick it up, look at it, think about it and ultimately put it back.  You see, I've been burned before.  Series like Laurel K. Hamilton's Anita Blake books started out good until I realized what they were: Harlequin Romance novels that featured the supernatural.  And I was afraid that that's what I'd be getting with Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series.  And it is...to a point.Due to the show on HBO, I decided to try the books and see just how faithful the TV series was.  Surprisingly, I discovered that, for the most part, True Blood features a lot of Dead Until Dark's storyline.  Sookie is a waitress at a Southern bar in fictional town Bon Temps.  She has the distinction of being able to read minds, a "disability" she has to work hard to control.  In this world, vampires are not only real but semi-accepted into society due to a synthetic blood.  One day, a vampire by the name of Bill walks into Sookie's part of the world and she's immediately attracted to him.  Then people start dying.Alright, so I came into this series with a couple assumptions based around things I've read and seen which have biased my opinions.  After Alan Ball said some very nice things about the story and its intent (with the sociological aspects of vampires dealing with normalcy), I kind of expected more from Dead Until Dark than I received.  At the half-way mark, the novel showed its true intent: a romance novel, with just a slight tinge of mystery.  The mystery really starts to take the back-burner to Sookie and Bill's on-and-off-again relationship to the point that the final reveal seemed an after thought.So, here's the thing.  Some readers will be completely content with a grown up Twilight or a funnier (and better written) Anita Blake series.  For those readers, you can probably add another star or so to my review.  Some readers, like me, were expecting something a bit more and will be at my score or lower, depending on their proclivity towards romance, and might want to stick with the show.  A fun read, but nothing too great, Dead Until Dark had enough to make me pick up the second book but not enough that I'm holding my breath.
5	1222300800	The old cover (and covers made for all books in the series) was much better. This new cover is probably due to an HBO drama "True Blood". I would stick with the old artist and old cover.The book is very engaging, it's hard to put it aside, and it makes you want to finish it at once, and then go to the next books in this series (total of 8 already). I give it 5 stars +.
1	1222214400	This book/series probably could have been good, but its just too much like every other vampire series out there. It doesn't really have anything that sets it apart or makes me want to keep reading.A cute vampire, a strong and independent woman with a talent that sets her apart, murders... its all been done before. I got to around page 60 and lost complete interest. Especially when out of the blue for no apparent reason the heroine decides to go investivate murders. Where in the world did that urge come from? She didn't even like the women that were killed!I started this series because it was high on the Amazon sci-fi/fantasy best seller list, but I won't be going any further. Maybe I'll give it another try when the vampire/romance market becomes less saturated.If you want a good vampire series, I suggest Anita Blake Vampire Hunter.
5	1222128000	I read this after I realized True Blood on HBO was based on the Sookie Stackhouse character.  As usual the book is so much better than the show.  I have already added the next 4 books to my shopping cart.
5	1222041600	I picked this up because I had caught the second episode of True Blood on HBO and was intrigued. The book is a quick read, and I am hooked on the Sookie-Bill relationship. Enough so that I ordered the rest of the series and can't wait to start. There are 8 books so far and if Sookie doesn't end up with Bill for eternity, it will be crushing....I am sure Harris gets all sorts of suggestions as to who Sookie should end up with, but after reading the first book, I can't imagine anyone more suited for her than Bill.Harris creates a very believable world where vampires walk among us and the reactions that people have to the "coming out of the coffin." This, combined with the romance, and a serial killer who happens to hate women who date vampires, all give a very entertaining fantasy/mystery. Not to be missed!
5	1221955200	As a huge fan of the Twilight series, my curiosity was peaked about this series, particularly with release of the new HBO series True Blood.I listened to the audio version of this book thought the reader was very realistic.  She had a southern accent (for Sookie)and read the other female and male characters pretty well, which is sometimes hard to do.  I would definetly recommend the audio version of this book.  For me, a reader makes or breaks an already good story and she really made it an enjoyable "read".I won't give away any spoilers, but will talk about the book in general.  The characters in this book are very well developed and Sookie is very strong and likeable.  She's telepathic and it's very interesting to see it in action and see how it changes.  Her vampire love interest Bill, is very intense and equally as likeable, but in a different way.The Vampire world created is very believable and interesting and the story line keeps you guessing with many surprises.  For me, this story was hard to turn off until it was finished.  I definetly plan on checking out more in this series.For those that have watched True Blood on HBO, the series seems to be sticking pretty close to the book, though I get a "darker" tone from the show and seems to focus on the adult type of content.  While there is sexual content in the book, it's not too graphic and drawn out, which made it more enjoyable of a read.For those that liked Twilight, this has some similar qualities, but is clearly a book for adults because of the sexual content.  It also is darker than the Twilight series (the TV show being VERY dark), but for me, it was almost equally as enjoyable.  I generally give a 5 star rating to a book that I would want to read again, and this certainly warrants that.ADDED:  As you read more through these books, you get toally drawn in.  After I got through book two, I knew this would be my favorite series.  After reading all 8, this is confirmed.  It's absoultely FABULOUS.
4	1221782400	I am new to the vampire stuff. I just got into erotica a few years ago.  Now everything is turning paranormal, so I had to see what all the fuss was about.  I got Twilight, the first one, and this book. I started with Stephanie Meyer's book but I couldn't finish it.  It was too teeny bopper for me.  I almost gave up and didn't even read this one but I was bored one night and thought what the heck.  Well I couldn't put it down!  This really is so much better. I'm still not sure that I want to read every single vampire book in these series but I will say this had more entertainment value for me (maybe it was the more adult romance it contained).
1	1221523200	Ok I LOVE THE TWILIGHT SERIES ! But this book was just to unclean for me and I am a 25 year old married female and I hate it when people say this book is for adults and Twilight is for teenagers which IS WRONG because I related more to the TWilight series than this one ! The show is awful and distasteful also ! Well that's just my opinion !
5	1221436800	I recently read the twilight series, and decided I wanted to read more vampire stories. I had been looking for a while when I saw the HBO show True Blood.  It said it was based a book series. So I went out and bought book 1.This books is very similar in story to the Twilight series, but it written in a more adult tone. This was a welcomed change from the more adolescent narrator in the Twilight series. There is sex, romance, violence, and a interesting look at how people react to the newly outed vampires.I find my self drawn into Sookies world and thought process. Her "disability" gives her a rare insight into the characters around her. Bill seems to be a very interesting guy and I look forward to learning mroe about him in the coming books..I also would recommend watching True Blood on HBO. The character of bill is played exactly as I saw him in the book. And often the story and the lines are straight from the book. They've only added a few things out to flush out the story, but they haven't gone so far out that it annoys me. Infact, I find delight in recognizing a line or entire passage from the book making it into the show.Just to forwarn you, the show is on HBO and is explicit in it's nature.
5	1221264000	I was very surprised by the content of this book.  There is no supernatural story like it anywhere.  It is funny, smart and has just the right amount of murder mystery and romance to make it an outstanding and entertaining read.  Even if you don't like vampires or supernatural stories, these characters are so fun and real you will not put the book down.
4	1221091200	I am an older(30 something) Twilight fan & was very happy to find Dead Until Dark!! It's an adult Twilight w/adult problems & adult sex! It was easy to get into the characters. Very much enjoyed this book.
5	1220572800	She has supernatural abilities, both a vampire and a shapeshifter romantically interested in her, various supernatural creatures appear in the stories, and vampire bars and nightclubs play major roles in the narratives and even supply names for books.  Put that description out to most people and they are apt to say, "Oh yeah, Anita Blake."  Charlaine Harris's Southern Vampire Mysteries, starring the telepathic Sookie Stackhouse, do bear a superficial resemblance to Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake books.  But the resemblances quickly disintegrate after that.  What drew me to the Anita Blake books were their wonderful premise of a world in which vampires and other supernatural beings were real and striving to live alongside humans.  I loved the idea of necromancer Anita solving mysteries while interacting with the various creatures complicating her world.  Unfortunately, the initial promising premise was horribly developed and the books became essentially hardcore porn novels.  It is no accident that the last decent novel in the series took place in the American Southwest where Anita was unable to interact with her normal paramours.  The Sookie Stackhouse books, on the other hand, take their initial promising premise and do it justice.  There is some sex in the books, but the books never become nothing but sex.Discovering these books was part of a wonderful serendipity.  I was looking through some bibliographies of vampire novels for a reading project I've undertaken and was interested in these after reading some complimentary things.  As a Southerner by upbringing (even if I've lived in the Yankee north for most of my adult life) I was especially interested in seeing how these books would handle supernatural tales in a rural setting.  So I eventually took advantage of Amazon's 4-for-3 offer and ordered the first four novels in the series.  Completely independent of this I had casually been aware that Alan Ball, the creator of one of the best series of the past decade, SIX FEET UNDER, had a new series dealing with vampires starring Anna Paquin entitled TRUE BLOOD on HBO.  Shortly after ordering the Charlaine Harris books I read that TRUE BLOOD would debut on September 9.  So, I went over to IMDB.com to get more details.  I was utterly stunned to learn that the series was based on Harris's novels.  This intensified my interest in both the books and the series.  Then came the third serendipitous surprise.  My books arrived and I read the author bio.  I read that Harris lives in a small town in southern Arkansas.  As an expatriot Arkansan I was delighted.  Learning that Harris lives in Arkansas intensified my interest in the books which intensified my interest in the TV series.One other way that the Sookie Stackhouse novels are superior to the Anita Blake stems from Harris's excellent writing style.  I love Sookie's narrative voice.  She is sweet, self-conscious, adorable, funny, and quirky.  She comes across this way because Harris writes such wonderful prose to put in her mouth.  Hamilton, on the other hand, gives Anita Blake some of the worst prose any narrative voice has ever been given.  In one early book, as Anita was struggling with the deep attraction she was coming to feel for the master vampire of St. Louis, she says, "I was afraid.  Afraid of how I much I felt for him!"  I read that with shock.  Most 8th graders would produce prose that atrocious.  Sookie's voice never falters and never degenerates into embarrassing drivel.Another way that the Sookie Stackhouse books surpass the Anita Blake comes from the sense of place that one gains in the former.  St. Louis never, ever comes to life as a locale in the Blake books.  It never feels like a real place, or rather never feels like a city distinct from any other city.  Contrast this to the Los Angeles of Raymond Chandler and Ross MacDonald or the San Francisco of Dashiell Hammett or the Florida of John Macdonald's Travis McGhee books or the Boston of Robert Parker's Spenser novels.  St. Louis in the Anita Blake books feels like the most generic place in the world.  You could remove the designator "St. Louis" and replace it with the name of almost any other city in the United States and it would work.  But Bon Temps, Louisiana, though fictional, comes alive.  Though I've been in Chicago for over twenty years, I've lived in towns not terribly unlike Bon Temps.  I've been in houses with tin roofs and know just what kind of noise the rain makes as it drums down.  I've spent time in towns in southern Arkansas like Magnolia, Hamburg, and Monticello and can easily imagine Bon Temps along those lines.  I also went to college in Arkadelphia, Arkansas, a tad further north but probably very similar to Bon Temps.  And my country relatives were scattered around the very tiny town of Wilburn, Arkansas, further north but much smaller than Bon Temps.  My point is that all of the small town elements felt real to me.  In these towns everybody really does know everyone else.The Southern Vampire Mysteries are the third series attempted by Charlaine Harris.  The experience shows.  While the second and third novels developed further the things we enjoyed in the first novel, the series really is born full blown.  One of the keys in any vampire series is making decisions about what part of vampire mythology one is going to accept.  Harris is a bit light on some of the traditional elements, which I think is a good thing.  It isn't clear whether they can be seen in mirrors (in my opinion, one of the dumbest things ever - the origin is that mirrors supposedly reflect one's soul, whereas vampires are allegedly soulless).  I believe that Harris's vampires have souls.  They can enter churches.  I doubt if crosses have any affect on them.  They don't like the taste of garlic, but it won't kill them.  Initially she seems to have it that vampires must sleep in the earth, but in the two successive books that doesn't seem to be the case.  Vampires do have to be invited to be able to enter a house and they can glamour humans.  Contrasting them with the vampires on BUFFY and ANGEL, Harris's vampires are physically stronger, less inherently evil (Angel and Spike aside), but more constricted by daytime hours (Spike on BUFFY spent a great deal of time running around in daylight with his blanket over his head, while Angel spent vast amounts of time active during the day, as long as he stayed out of the sun).  My lone complaint is that Harris's vampire, much like those in the Anita Blake books, have a complex political structure.  It isn't quite as awful as that in the Blake books, but it is bad enough.  At least we are spared the hundreds of excruciating pages detailing vampire posturing and posing.If you go to the Anita Blake books you will see that while they are heavily reviewed, they consistently are given very low ratings by Amazon reviewers.  The Sookie Stackhouse books, however, are given consistently high reviews.  This completely conforms to my experience with both series.  If you are a reader of the Anita Blake books but are fed up with the political and social nonsense as well as the endless hardcore sex scenes that overwhelms the excellent premise, you will almost certainly be delighted with these books.  If you are a reader of the Sookie Stackhouse books but haven't read the Anita Blake books, don't bother to try the latter.  You've already read the best.
5	1220486400	I thought this book was great.  It was funny, romantic and a bit scary.  I read this and just had to read the rest of Charlene Harris' Southern Vampire books.  Highly recommend all of these books.
3	1220313600	Well it is not bad, however it didnt keep me at the edge of my seat wanting more.  I did like the sex scenes.  But other than that it was just ok for me.
1	1220313600	I've read many books about vampires, I really thought this one would be good.  When I read it, I was proved wrong, the characters are flat and all seem to be the exact same. The main character, Sookie StackHouse, reminds me of a 16 year old whose trying out for a cheerleading squad. She works as a waitress and is certain everyone thinks she is crazy, her self esteem seems to be very low and the way the book is written Sookie seems to constantly whine. Sookie thinks her lack of a man in her life is also to blame on her "disability," however at the same time she thinks her boss and a few other men are attracted to her; Sookie is a very skippy character and an unreliable narrator. The vampire, William Dufris doesn't stand out in the story, he sounds like the rest of the male characters in the book. The only character that stood out in the story and made the book somewhat interesting was Sookie's grandmother, an eccentric, strong, and independent woman.The story is written very flatly and almost all of the characters lack personality; the way the story is written is: to do list meets character list and plot line.
3	1220054400	I'm generally drawn to darker, more brooding PNR's e.g., J.R.Ward, Kresley Cole and Larissa Ione. But, after continually reading rave reviews about the Southern Vampire Series, I had to give it a try.Initially, I was sold, because it was refreshing to meet Sookie and the small town characters, interspersed with laugh-out-loud humor. It just looked like it would be a lot of fun and a nice change.The concept of Vampires that were trying to integrate into society had its appeal, as well, and it even touched on some relevant social issues such as prejudice and intolerance.  However, the more that I visited with these characters, the more implausible the situations became.At first, I loved Sookie (the thought reader), but I kept feeling like I was reading about a teenager who wanted to grow up, too, soon.  As naive as she was depicted initially, I simply could not see her wielding chains and placing her own life in harm's way to save the first Vampire she had ever met, no matter how fascinated she was by him.  Then to handle the escalating violence with a rather nonchalant attitude.  No way! I would have liked to see her develop a little more slowly into her role of Vampire advocate.About halfway through the book, what she finds on her kitchen floor is enough to make a hardened Detective have PTSD, yet she did not appear to have any real depth to her grieving.  Again, her behaviors appeared self focused and immature.Bill, the Vampire, is interesting, but somewhat of a wimp for a Vampire.  In some respects, Sookie is more gutsy.  I just couldn't see what she saw in him.  The secondary characters don't have a lot of meat to them and one that did, for me (no I won't give it away), was sorely missed when murdered.Toward the end of the book I was shaking my head in disbelief.  I almost threw the book across the room, when 'Elvis' arrived on the scene.  Yes, friends...Elvis.  I'm quite sure it was intended to be humorous, but for me it wasn't. There had been too much blood and guts spilled by that time to appreciate this diversion.  I won't say why, but the appearance of the Collie dog provoked the same negative response---like, what silliness is next.Now I've piqued your interest, huh.  You probably can't wait to read about Sookie, the thought reading, sophomoric chick, who is infatuated with Bill, the Vampire, with Elvis thrown in and a Collie dog with a secret. Who could blame you :-).All said, I thought it was rather fun, but just not my taste.  Actually, if the sex scenes were toned down, I think it would make a great read for adolescents.  I think this is the primary problem with this novel.  It really can't decide what demographic it is trying to appeal to.  It is heavy on intimate details, blood and gore and other adult themes, but then so very humorous and juvenile in other regards.  Think Buffy!  It is basically in-congruent.I'm glad I read it, but I will move on to other PNR's and don't intend to finish this series, but I can see the appeal that it might have for some.
2	1219622400	I had very high expectations coming into this one.  I had just finished reading Harrison's Dead Witch Walking and was blown away, so I eagerly looked around for another paranormal fiction author.  I settled on Dead Until Dark.  The covers and titles seemed fun with a promising underlying plot.  My last criteria that I researched through other readers of paranormal fiction was if it was a paranormal romance, and I was assured it was not.Boy did I miss sorely on all accounts.  Right away you realize Harris's writing style is not as deep or well constructed.  She writes very simply, which in and of itself is not necessarily bad, not being able to describe anything with enough detail to evoke the imagination.  When a vampire dies the only way she could describe his blood is by calling it "gunk".  When Sookie gets mad she storms around (and for no apparent reason) and decides to, uh, dig a hole?  I can't remember the last time I got upset and went to the backyard and dug a hole.  Oh, yeah, that would be never.  But this is how Harris writes, attempting to add character and doing nothing more than making you scratch your head and wonder what she was thinking in writing that.  Oftentimes Harris didn't seem like she knew how her characters should react or respond, so their reactions always seemed out of place and unbelievable, making the story very disjointed.And the worst part is that this did turn out to be a paranormal romance.  The plot is nothing more than a loosely connected string of murders that aren't really talked about too much.  What is written about, and quite extensively, is Sookie's romance with Bill!  Every story can benefit from a romantic interest thrown in, but Harris decided to suddenly make it the main theme.  She attempted to write about these steamy sex sequences that always resulted in Sookie and Bill in bed, and it seemed to always be happening!  On a date?  Get in bed.  Someone attempts to kill you?  Get in bed.  Someone kills your friends?  Get in bed.  Doing nothing at all?  Get in bed.  Alright already, we get the point!All in all, I was not impressed at all.  I do not like Harris's writing style.  Very simplistic, nothing in depth.  She writes like writers who just write and write and write and do nothing more than churn out books.  Danielle Steele?  James Patterson?  Janet Evanovich?  They can write a story, but there isn't anything in depth or really interesting about their books usually, because their emphasis is on quantity, not quality.  Harris does just this as she also writes mystery books as well.  Slow down, focus on a particular book with its plots and characters, and Harris might actually be able to turn something out that is worth while.  As is, I would not recommend this series or author.2 stars.
3	1219536000	I don't think I have to rehash all of the storyline, starts with a well endowed blonde waitress named Sookie who meets the dream Vampire..Bill. (Snicker.)Anyway straight to the point, as a beginning of a series it started off pretty interesting. The concept of vampires who are introduced into mainstream society. How they fit in, the reactions from the live social circles, and not to mention lots fights scenes and blood abound.It started to get a bit fast paced and uneven plot wise during the ending. People started dropping off (for a small town they sure took multiple murders in stride), and a lot of the scenarios with her boss were a bit unbelievable. An okay beginning, but I'll be honest in saying this only got 3 starts because the next book was even worse.It's skippable, and maybe with hope the t.v. series will come out more even.
3	1219276800	I'd read an article about Alan Ball (the creator of "Six Feet Under") who's creating a series for HBO based on these novels.  The concept of the vampires being mainstreamed into society and a protagonist who struggles with a telepathic disability (she can read minds but wishes she couldn't) was very intriguing, so I downloaded the book to my Kindle.  The writing is certainly not literature, but it grabs you and pulls you along and makes for a very fast and amusing read.I'm giving it only three stars because it turns into a romance novel and it's a bit trashy.  There are quite a few sex scenes and they are prolonged and quite descriptive.  I wouldn't quite call it porn, but it certainly made me uncomfortable.  It's funny, too, because I think the main character, Sookie, would be embarrassed herself by the descriptions of what she would consider "private."  It's also interesting that the author looks like the plump, fun, middle-aged woman at church who brings the best lemon meringue pie to the pot luck.If you don't mind such scenes and like the romance genre where the spunky woman loves being dominated by the men, and can get into a little mystery and fantasy, then this book is for you. It is an intriguing mix.  But If you like more elevated prose, prefer mysteries in the vein of Agatha Christie, and despise the romance genre, then give this one a skip.
5	1219190400	Grabs you from the beginning and you can't put it down!  I have since ordered the rest of the series!  Shared the first one with my friend and she is pushing me to finish the next book in the series because she can't wait to get her hands on it.  Never read this venue before but this is a great book!  Escapism I call it.  Just poor fiction and gets your mind of the troubles of today!  If you need a good read and plain old escape from life....this is your book!
1	1218585600	I bought this book because of all the 5 star reviews.  Those people must have read a different book. If there are those out there who thought this book was that good they'd be blown away by a good author's vampire stories...like J.R. Ward for example.I kept thinking it was going to pick up but it never did.  The vampire was the most boring of all the characters.  Everything was so....flat.I honestly do not understand how something like this can get published.  I finally gave up on it before half way.
4	1217894400	I really enjoyed this book. I was very much into the author's take on vampires. I liked that it was a healthy mixture of fun, funny, light, dark, serious, and action. Can't wait to read the rest of this series.
2	1217721600	Considering the rave review I was given of Harris' work, I was greatly disappointed. The characters are dull and stereotypical, and the plot is flat and underdeveloped. It's "charm" seems to be its Southern setting, and I guess I'm just not southern enough to enjoy it.
5	1217721600	I just heard about this author and purchased the book.  I am now a big fan and got the complete series of 8 books.  Now I can't wait for the next one.
5	1217376000	I'm a huge Mary Janice Davidson fan, so I was attracted to this "Southern Vampire" series because it seemed along a similar thread.  There are, in fact, LOTS of similarities between this book and the MJD series.  Both contain a heroine who is "different" in some way from other mere humans, which in both books seems to just drive the vampires wild with desire!  The MJD series is easily the more humorous of the two, though the Harris character (Sookie) has a mad humor streak, too.  This was my first dive into the Southern Vampire series and I will definitely be back - I'm anxious to read the other books in the series now.
4	1217376000	A great start to a series I'm excited to continue with. This book has humor and suspense, a good romance, and a great mystery. I thought it started off slow, but as you get to know the characters it definitely picks up. I love the main character, Sookie Stackhouse, and her 'gift' of being able to read people's minds which is both a blessing and a curse. I've heard that later books in the series are even more exciting, and am anxious to continue on with this series!
5	1217030400	Welcome to Bon Temps, Louisiana, home of Sookie Stackhouse, waitress of Merlotte's and resident telepath. This little fact tends to scare guys off, who'd want to date someone who could read their mind? This quirk means Sookie tends to keep to herself until the vampire comes into the bar. In the midst to all the mental chatter in the bar, he is an island of silence. His name is Bill Compton and he's come back to Bon Temps to settle in what is now his house, it's been in his family since he died after the Civil War. It's the house closest to Sookie's, only separated by a cemetery.There's been a couple of murders in town and both of victims were women who hung out at the vampire bar in the next town over. Both had bite marks on their bodies, had sex before and after death, and were strangled to death. Who did it and why?
5	1216857600	This book was a delightful surprise.I wascharmed by the freshness and humor of thewriting, and loved Sookie so much that I went out and bought the rest of the eight book (so far) series. Read them all within aweek- can't wait for more.
5	1216598400	I found this whole series to be well written and fun to read.  I actually couldn't get enough and read all 8 books in about 2.5 weeks.  You can obviously read more about the book online so I'm not going to summarize it.  I just thought I would give the whole series an enthusiastic thumbs up so that others may check it out like I did.I can't wait for the next installment!!
4	1216339200	I'd just given up on another horrible, horrible vampire novel that will remain unnamed for fear of retribution, and was a little wary of starting another.  It's hard to get a really fresh take on an old concept, and while the book doesn't have anything particularly new or interesting (other than the whole 'integrated into society' bit, which was a nice twist), it works the old legends to its advantage.  Sure, there are downright cheesy moments.  There are plenty of clich&eacute;s and even a few times that you groan aloud.  But there are also bits that make you laugh, and characters that are truly likeable, and a storyline that's not at all stagnant.  It's fun and light and enjoyable.If you're looking for deep meaning and literary greatness, this probably isn't the book for you.  But if you're looking for a book that'll immerse you in a storyline and drag you on a fun and fantastic journey, and are willing to overlook a few of the more trite and predictable aspects of the book, I would strongly recommend it.  I look forward to reading more in this series!
1	1216339200	I did not enjoy this book.Let's see some pros and cons yes?Cons:Vague writing style. Ex: &lt;&lt;..."You don't want to," I said finally trying not to make it a question. "Oh yes I want to," he grabbed my hand and showed me. Suddenly there was a... pg 112>> Grabbed her hand and showed her what? This is just one of several instances where I was going, "WTF is that supposed to mean?" Another example was where Sookie was imagined by Andy B. to be "cavorting" with her brother and the thought drove her to tears. ...? What?Bill the vampire was boring and reserved. Then most unexpectedly he throws a hissy fit when a bunch of vampires he didn't even like die.Sookie had more emotion leafing through a bunch of dead girl's applications at work than she had when she found the dead body of her Grandma. She was not easily shaken by the multiple dead bodies she found at all. And here's the offensive bit. Her past with her "funny uncle" was a plot device for Bill to "interfere with her life". She was molested as a child and it had no impact on her character. This history on Sookie was also completely out of the blue. There were no hints she had been sexually abused at all until she has an unlikely conversation with Bill about playing "show you mine if you show me yours". Excuse me...but being well acquainted with sexual abuse victims I was appalled at the way this was handled. It's a traumatic thing to have happen to a person and in this book is was skimmed over and tossed aside when it was no longer convenient to the plot.Jason's character is also appalling and I found to be unrealistic. His outlandish behaviors are explained in a matter of sentences through bad dialog. On top of that we are expected to go along with his appalling behavior because in the beginning of the book he is described as "selfish". No. There is something seriously wrong with a man when he slaps his sister in the face, makes bondage porn films, denies a criminal act for years, and is ungrateful for Sookie's moral support when being faced with jail time among other things.Sam was never adequately described. Or at least I don't remember it. All we know (from later in the book) is that he's got ruddy skin and blue eyes. But for the first half of the book I was sure he was an old man. And then much to my surprise he's asking Sookie out.Pros:I liked the Southern atmosphere in the book. It had a distinctness.The mystery was well planned. I didn't know who had done it until the page it all came together (though that's probably because I was reading this book in the wee hours of the night). I felt appropriately chilled by the villain.And that's about it.
5	1215820800	Anyone who has read AFTER MIDNIGHT or THE VAMPIRE WHO LOVED ME will tell you that I don't like to venture too far over to the dark side and I like my vamps with tongues (and fangs) planted firmly in cheek.  So when I first discovered Charlaine Harris's DEAD UNTIL DARK, it was a supernatural match made in heaven.  All I had to hear was, "It's a book about a cocktail waitress named Sookie Stackhouse and a Southern vampire named Bill" and I went racing for the bookstore shelves.Everything about this series feel fresh to me.  Unlike so many vampire tales, Charlaine Harris's books aren't set in New Orleans but in the rural backwater town of Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Bill is the quintessential vampire--tall, dark, handsome...and undead.  Since he was "turned" just after the Civil War, he also has a laconic drawl.  And in an added advantage, sex with Bill temporarily gives a girl supernatural strength, glowing skin, and fabulous shiny hair like those models in the Pantene commercials.The books are all written in first person and Sookie Stackhouse is one of the strongest and most likable female characters I've ever met.  She looks like the girl we all wanted to be in high school--she's (pardon the pun) stacked and has a shiny mane of long straight blond hair.  But she's also the girl we all wanted to be our best friend in high school--she's funny, kind, wry and smarter than almost everyone else around her.  And did I mention that she's psychic?  That's right--she can read minds.  Well, everyone's mind but Bill's and his vampire kin, which is yet another reason why he's so attractive to her.The books are wonderful adventure/mystery/vampire tales but they're also very sexy, especially when Ms. Harris introduces Bill's sexy and sinister vampire boss Eric, who neatly straddles the line between villain and hero and creates a Ranger/Joe-sized dilemma in the reader's mind.  In the third book of the series, CLUB DEAD, we also meet Alcide Herveaux, a biker werewolf, who made me think that I might not mind a little back hair if it was on the right guy (or werewolf).Alan Ball, the creator of SIX FEET UNDER, has optioned the books to make a television series for HBO.  I just wish I could be there when the casting call goes out for Bill, Eric, and Alcide![...]
5	1215475200	A friend of mine recommended this book to me. When I started reading Dead Until Dark, I was hooked right from the get go. It creatively combines Sci-Fi, comedy, Romance and mystery and makes for a interesting and entertaining read.  I am almost finished reading Dead to the World and I can't wait to find out what happens next. I'm very much looking forward to the HBO spin-off to see if what the characters I envisioned from the book turn out like on TV. I love the author's creativity down to the little details! It's a must read!!!
5	1212364800	I am really enjoying this series. I get so wrapped up in Sookie's life as soon as I finish one book I pick up the other.
3	1212278400	I've had a lot of people recommend Charlaine Harris to me over the past few years, and I had the pleasure of seeing her in person and seeing how charming and funny she was then, so I bought the first Sookie book, hoping it would live up to its hype.  I won't bother with plot reviews because this late in the game, there are a ton of other reviews up that have that, but honestly, I spent most of the book waiting for it to get as funny and charming as people claimed.  I found Bill to be dull as dishwater, and Sookie alternatingly annoying and dim.  I stuck with it because there were sections that genuinely entertained me.  I most enjoyed Sookie's boss, Sam, and kept hoping Sookie would drop the boring vampire to be with him.  I've heard a couple spoilers for later books, so I've bought the second, hoping it gets better.  I love ongoing series, so I'm keeping my fingers crossed.
2	1212192000	I'm getting extremely discouraged with this genre (paranormal/vampire romance). The books that are consistently recommended just aren't very good. This one being a prime example.First of all, the plot was an utter bore. Murder. Okay - can we be more original than that? Maybe I've read too many of these books recently but nearly every vampire romance starts off with a murder. Then the the whole book is spent with the dingbat of a heroine (who is supposed to be smart) figuring out who the murderer is with the help of her vampire boyfriend. Yawn.On top of that, the characters and setting were just plain flat and not very interesting. For the same reason I didn't enjoy the characters or setting in Holly Black's Tithe, I didn't enjoy them here. There are plenty of books with low-income, uneducated characters who are thoughtful and insightful (Huck Finn anyone?). But Sookie doesn't demonstrate any particular capacity for thoughtful reflection or insight. Her POV doesn't add to the story. And it should.Ultimately, I couldn't really tell if the author wanted her to be smart or not. Some of her dialog was borderline intelligent and some of it was incredibly stupid. And supposedly she reads a lot but where is this shown? There isn't a single scene where she actually picks up a book. She could be reading Teen Beat magazine and drooling over the Jonas Brothers for all we know.She's also 25, living at home and letting her grandmother cook and clean for her. She's a virgin until halfway through the book - kinda weird for someone who's 25, telepathic or not (and I only say that because her telepathy is supposedly the reason for her *chastity*). She shows no interest in improving herself via education or some other means. She's just content to live her life as a barmaid and have lots of sex with her not-very-well-described-beyond-being-super-horny vampire boyfriend. Um, okay. Why is this interesting?This brings me to another point. From the cover, you might make the mistake of thinking this is a YA novel. Not so. Lots of sex. I have nothing against that, but most paranormal romance books I've read have something quasi-indicative of the nature of the book on the cover (refer to LKH or JR Ward). However, since the author often has no say in this so I'm not slamming Ms. Harris for it - just pointing it out. Maybe the publisher will take note.Overall, I wouldn't recommend this book. Wish I could say otherwise but I can't. Dull plot, boring and/or unlikable characters, and inconsistent character logic made it a less than enjoyable read.
1	1211760000	This book is so very awful it makes me lose faith in humanity. The fact that so many people seem to actually like it is horrifying.There are many things wrong with this book so I will list just a few.(1) In every scene, the author describes what each character is wearing. Every scene, every character. Apparently it is essential to the plot that we know what everyone is wearing AT ALL TIMES. Also, Charlaine believes that details about the main character's mundane daily tasks such as showering, brushing her hair, shaving her legs, and putting lotion on are VERY IMPORTANT for the readers to know about.(2) The main character has the intolerably stupid name of Sookie Stackhouse. She is accompanied by vampires with names like Bill and Pam.(3) Characters actually say things like "pleased as punch" and "happy as a clam." Give me a break!(4) Charlaine does not understand the proper use of punctuation. Commas appear randomly and without reason. Can she not afford a proofreader?(5) There is - and I say this in all seriousness - a part where Bill the vampire is described as "looking very vampirey." I'm sorry, but what the hell is that supposed to mean? Are you too lazy to use adjectives that actually exist, Charlaine?And much, much more. Do yourself a favor and skip this poorly written series. It's not even worth the read to laugh at how awful it is.
5	1210896000	Wow, so glad I found this book!This is a very enjoyable book, funny, great language, very thouroughly constructed characters and the world. You feel like you actually know these people and therefore care deeply as to what happens to each one of them! Nice intricate plot - twists and turns all around!I highly reccomend this.
5	1210723200	My first thoughts of this book is, `Why did I wait to read this title?' Then I go into foaming throws of happiness. This book is up there people! I was so surprised by it.As to the Mystery part I felt that it wasn't the focus. Even though it cuts close to Sookie. In fact the mystery solves its self. The novel is perfect for it. Who the killer was surprised me, which never really happens.All the characters were real and they interacted greatly. Sookie's ability of reading people's minds is valid, and believable. I didn't think the author could have done better at it.The romance is really good as well. I got that fuzzy little feeling that makes you go, "She's in love." And may I say not lust, but love. The extra little romance interests that always get thrown into stories, where well thought out, and again realistic.And for a light comedy it was written really well. Harris managed to keep it feel light and humorous while taking us into the world of vampires.**** I look forward to the rest of this series. (I can barely keep my hands off it!) For vampire fans don't be put off and for those who have yet to enjoy this genre don't wait! A top book, good plot, characters, and just to good not to read.
5	1210377600	These books are my favorite - I like them more than Harry Potter and Twilight combined!
5	1206230400	I read this book after learning that Allan Ball of HBO is directing a TV Series based on it. I was intrigued. The book turned out to be a griping reading. I couldn't put the book down till I was done, and I just had to read the other books in the southern vampire series (all 6 :-)) right after - So no one was able to talk to me for about a week.The book tells the story of a good southern, yet unusual girl, who learns she actually likes to walk on the wild side when she meets and falls for a vampire. It kind of touches on every woman's fantasy of taming the bed guy - and it actually works due to the splendid writing. The only thing that bothered me about the book was the somewhat conservative and sanctimonious depiction of sex. It's a sexy book that for some reason apologizes for it. It really shouldn't.
4	1206057600	I have enjoyed the Dresden files so much, I started looking at all of the series books that are out there.  WOW!  There's a lot of them! Hearing that HBO was going to develop a series based on these books, I decided to try book #1.I found the writing easy and fun to follow. The idea of Vampires as people who just discriminated against but are now a part of "normal" society was interesting as well.I did feel the "mystery" part of the plot suffered a little bit because the author was trying to establish the series, but that is forgiveable, and I found the end very satisfying.My one complaint, and believe me I'm not a prude, was the sex in the book. I don't have a problem with sex in books, but it seemed to me that Sookie, who was a virgin fell quite quickly into having sex all the time. Once the sexual barrier had been crossed, they did it repeatedly.  I just found that was not in character with her upbringing and personality.Probably won't read book two, but I probably will watch HBO.Thanks for listening.
1	1205971200	So...I had been eyeing this series of books in the scifi section for a while. I read the first few pages, but never committed to buying them.  When I received almost the whole series as a gift, I was pretty excited.I read this one, and promptly sold it and the others to a used book store (I unfortunately didn't read the book until it was too late to return them).Almost the entire book is spent describing the wardrobe of the characters, in which I took no interest (especially as this wardrobe apparently came from an 80's time warp).  The remaining parts of the novel were almost exclusively wasted on gratuitous sex scenes.  Now, I don't object to a sex scene with a point, but there was no point in any of these. Didn't move the plot (ha!) along, didn't develop the characters, nothing.As for the writing, I've seen better from angst-ridden teenagers.  The dialogue was flat and boring.  She used the phrase "pleased as punch" twice in as many pages.  When she described a character as "looking like a promise" my brain recoiled in horror.  This is possibly the worst metaphor I have ever heard, and I can't even tell what the hell it is supposed to mean.  She definitely needs a lesson in the usage of commas.  She is also in need of a good copy editor to catch the many typos I came across in this edition.I have a younger brother who is mentally disabled and I have to point out how deeply offended I was by Charlaine's repeated use of the term "disability" in regards to Sookie's mind-reading. I suppose she thought she was being clever, as authors would generally call this a "gift" or "ability." However, the use of the term "disability" is not clever; it's just yet another way Charlaine tries to make the reader pity her mass-manufactured blonde bimbo of a heroine. Just because Sookie is unable to block out a man's thoughts long enough to have an enjoyable sexual encounter DOES NOT MAKE HER DISABLED.This is just proof that some people will read anything, encouraging companies to publish even more of the same old drivel. Don't bother wasting your money.
2	1205971200	I have been avoiding this book after hearing that the main character's first name is Sookie, but seeing so many wonderful reviews, I figured I should check out what all the hype was about.  Let me also mention that Sookie roughly translates to '[...]' from Russian, but I do realize that Ms. Harris had no way of knowing that. Oh my was I disappointed with this book, first names aside.  Everyone in town thought that Sookie was crazy due to her rumored 'disability', but I really can't blame them after her odd behavior.  She laughs for no reason, acts like a complete airhead most of the time (being called naive is too mild a word), doesn't seem to possess any depth and even when she tries to show compassion it only goes so far, doesn't think through a single action, and completely embraces her own stupidity. Based on her descriptions, it really appears that the towns people got it right, and she is not entirely there most of the time. It's also mentioned that she is well read, but I don't remember her ever picking up a single book while getting a tan or whatever she did all day. Also she mentioned that she only lived with her elderly grandmother to help her out, but the poor lady cooked and cleaned while the lazy 25 year old lounged around the house. How's that helping?And then there is Bill.  I realize that Ms. Harris tried to make a joke out of the name, but it fell completely flat.  I still don't know what he is, since his character is not well developed.  Is he a monster? Is he a sweet guy next door? Or is he just completely boring and uninteresting by nature? I don't know (although I'm leaning towards the last) and the writer didn't seem fit to fill us in on his personality traits.  One of the reviewers wrote that all the characters in this book are two-dimensional and I couldn't agree more.  There is no substance to any of them. I admit that I know very little of Southern behaviors being from the East Coast, but a lot of the stereotypes mentioned in this book came out offensive in my opinion.Whomever compared this book to any of Hamilton's works got it completely wrong.  I agree that Ms. Hamilton has gone overly x-rated in her latest books, but she is still a wonderful writer and every one of her characters is amazingly well developed.  In comparison, 'Dead Until Dark' reads like the diary ramblings of a mentally challenged 16 year old girl (I upped the age from 12 since almost every other word out of Sookie's mouth was about sex).
5	1205366400	Sookie Stackhouse isn't your ordinary Louisiana waitress ... she's telepathic, but to the small-minded townsfolk, that's a disability that makes her "crazy Sookie" to most of the locals. In Harris's alternate universe, vampires "came out of the coffin" four years ago and are a common fixture in New Orleans, although not as common in Sookie's small town. Sookie's dying to actually meet one of the undead, but when a vampire does come to Merlotte's, she gets more than she bargained for.Bill Compton lived through the Civil War before being turned into a vampire in 1870, a fact which endears him to Sookie's grandmother and her club Descendants of the Glorious Dead, where he discusses his acquaintance with various members' relatives during the Civil War.However, Bill's life is jeopardized by vampire drainers, who make money by capturing vampires and selling their blood, which has druglike qualities. This either results in a two-decade painful recovery for the vamps, or death at the hands of the drainers. Bill is indebted to Sookie for saving him, and returns the favor more than once.The town is rocked by a series of brutal killings of women who dated vampires ("fang bangers"), and Sookie and Bill race against the clock trying to find the murderer. Other complications arise, including Sookie's romantic involvement will Bill, her introduction into the brutal world of vampires, and her boss Sam showing a romantic interest in her (Sam's hiding a pretty big secret of his own).Harris writes with a tongue-in-cheek humor drenched in Southern sweetness that has strong links to Southern Chick Lit a la Ya Ya Sisterhood. Sookie's Louisiana is peppered with Cajun expressions and flashes of antebellum grandeur. She creates a likeable protagonist who may not be book-schooled, but who is intelligent, down-to-earth and strong-willed. Sookie's gift of telepathy is gradually explored (and employed) in greater detail as the story progresses. Harris's breed of vampires draws on many common features of vampire lore (sleeping in the ground during daylight hours, death by sunlight or staking, allergy to silver, the ability to hypnotize), but in Bill she's created a fresh voice that has much more in common with humanity.I greatly enjoyed Dead Until Dark, the first in a series of Southern Vampire Novels, and can't wait to see the HBO adaptation True Blood starring Anna Paquin as Sookie and Stephen Moyer as Bill. I look forward to reading the continuing adventures of Sookie and Bill in Harris's other Southern Vampire novels. If you're a fan of vampire fiction, you'll find a lot to sink your teeth into in Dead Until Dark.
5	1205193600	It's great to see and read a book that has so much imagination! To go along with the commonly held views on vampires and to see a nice southern girl who was raised right, fall in love with one of them, it was just the best!Sookie says and thinks a lot like most women, she just doesn't have the self esteem, yet, to put it forward. She is endearing to us and we can't wait to see what awaits her next. Bill, though a cool customer, is what we hope for in our vampires. Tender and loving when he needs to be and cruel and deadly when he has to be. Let's hope this romance can stand the test of time! I sure hope so!
5	1204848000	I never imagined myself really going for vampire fiction, but Charlaine Harris has changed my mind.  Her vampires have such interesting personalities, but the real star of the show is Sookie Stackhouse, one of the most interesting heroines imaginable.  I wait eagerly for each successive book in the series, and only wish Ms. Harris could write them faster!
3	1204588800	Telepathic waitress, bloodsuckers, and a pretty decent burger joint.Or, I'd eat there if I didn't know about the supernatural scary stuff.  The setting is pretty well done, even if the mystery and vampire bits aren't that interesting.The just a normal girl character is quite well drawn though, and is certainly the best part of this book (and series).The covers are pretty bad though, and indicate none of that local small town feel it has going.
5	1204502400	I loved this book and have just ordered all of the rest in the series.  The main character, Sookie, is quirky and interesting.  The little world the story takes you into is both charming and funny.  The book made me laugh, gasp, and even get the chills!  Highly recommended.
3	1203984000	I read in one review that this series is a lighter, fluffier version of Anita Blake.  That was a good description that set proper expectations for this book.  This is a pretty light read-dare I say kind of cute (thinking about the last scene especially) but there are some surprisingly dark moments. Most of them are treated with humor, however, and Sookie seems to get over some major events within a few pages.  While in no way does this measure up to early Anita Blake, I will probably continue with the series if only because I am interested in what happens to the characters.
5	1198195200	Sookie is a delight to read about, as she's young and fiesty, holding a cute curiosity about the 'dark side', cursed with a bad reputation of being a freak. Weighed down by the small town's perception of her, she lives at home with her Grandmother and works at a local bar. Not your traditional heroine so far, it's even odder when she can read minds, but hates the ability as it only brings her trouble. Bill the vampire is the typical irresistible type, yet thankfully speaks in normal dialogue and not old-world fancy Vampire lingo. Eric the vampire appealed to me strongly, and I hope to see more of him in upcoming books. The same goes for Sam the bartender. You have to love series where you fall in love with all the main players :) There is also the introduction of a 'bodyguard' that's so over the top it's borderline ridiculous.If you can't already tell, I loved this story. Addictive characters gave a much-needed boost to a dying sub-genre that needs more exploration before it's buried. Paired with a clever mystery, the relationships are as addictive as the villains unveiling.
2	1195084800	I liked Harris' style of writing. She moves the story well and tries to keep the reader engaged. Unfortunately, the story itself fell flat. Sookie, the main character, is described as being intelligent, but naive. Unfortunately, her small town experience is taken to the extreme that she comes across as anything but intelligent.The mystery portion of the novel is well done, but as is often the case when one is done well the other, the relationships in this case, are stiff and poorly developed. I didn't like Bill and wondered why Sookie would allow herself to be used by him, however much he professed to love her.Much more interesting to me was the shape shifter whom she almost completely ignores.Overall it was a quick read, but one that never did quite pull me into the story and make me care about the characters.
4	1194393600	A Vampire named Bill? Hey why not! He's a bone fide American after all. At long last a vampire for the common woman. DEAD UNTIL DARK is set in the town of Bon Temps in rural northern Louisiana, four years after vampires have "come out of the coffin', so to speak, and have been acknowledged as legal citizens. These undead must answer to, and are protected by, the same laws that govern humans. Acknowledged yes, but not widely accepted, and like the living they come in all varieties.Most folk kept their distance from them, but there were always groupies who got their thrills from dangerous and deadly pastimes. For the most part the vampires tended to congregate in large cities like New Orleans, where their activities went mostly unremarked.Sookie Stackhouse, had waited a long time to see her first vampire in Bon Temps, and now here he was sitting in one of her booths. This is a special treat for Sookie, a bar waitress, who is 'disabled' and doesn't have much of a social life. Sookie's actually very pretty, but intimacy took on a whole other meaning when you could read your suitor's minds. True she spent most of her energy shielding her mind from the din of other's thoughts, for sanity's sake and an innate sense of politeness, but that wasn't possible when she was touching someone. Most folks weren't willing to admit to her disability. They just said she was crazy. Those that believed simply avoided her.Sookie's joy is deflated when she notices the seedy Rattray couple insinuating themselves into her vampire's company. She doesn't like them and knows they've spent time in jail. Opening her mind she learns the reason. They're vampire drainers! Illegal but very profitable. When the vampire leaves with the couple, she is sure he's in trouble, and she's right. Fortunately she is able to rescue him. He isn't terribly gracious about it though, so Sookie attempts to read him. Nothing! How marvelous. Here is a handsome, interesting man, and she can't hear what he's thinking. Someone is murdered that night however a female convenience store clerk with a taste for vampires. She'd had bite marks on her thighs, but the cause of death was strangulation. Was the killer a vampire or human?Three night's later Bill Compton, the vampire, returns Sookie's favor when the Rattrays return to revenge themselves on her. She's fatally wounded when he arrives. In an ironic twist, Bill donates his blood to save her. Sookie's more than a little glad he's stuck around. She really likes him, an when she learns he'd served in the Civil War she invites him to address her grandmother's club, The Descendants of the Glorious Dead. Bill comes over to meet Sookie's grandmother who is thrilled that she's finally captured the interest of a man. Afterwards they go for a walk and it is clear that there is interest on both of their parts. Sound good? Well then all heck breaks loose.Several of Bill's vampire acquaintances show up and their awful behavior reminds Sookie of what Bill really is. It scares her a lot. Still he seems different and when another woman is murdered (same M.O.) and both Bill and Sookie's handsome, promiscuous, brother are considered suspects, she braves a vampire hot spot to try to acquit them of blame. Unfortunately she draws the interest of another handsome vampire who has seniority over Bill. Yikes. Then the murders hits home and Sookie realizes that she had been the intended victim. She does fit the profile after all. Now she must discover the identity of the killer before it is too late for all of them. Sometimes a disability can come in handy .Wow, this was a great tale. You have murder, mayhem, mystery, three paranormal elements (the third is a surprise), romance, and humor. It is wonderfully well written. I doubt anyone will guess the identity of the killer until it is revealed. I recommend a second reading to truly appreciate the subtlety of the clues Ms. Harris weaves into the story. I just love stories that are written in the first person, this was an added bonus. It was narrated by Sookie and this lent to much of the humor. It is not a traditional romance in the sense that, yes Sookie and Bill care a great deal for each other, and yes they are definitely intimate, but there are still lots of problems to be worked out. The story is left open ended, rather like J.D. Robb's IN DEATH novels. I can't wait to find out what happens next in the continuation, LIVING DEAD IN DALLAS. -- Reviewed for PNR Reviews
4	1193356800	I didn't want to read these books at first because of Sookie. Seriously, Sookie? It seems a little too cutesy for my taste but these books were recommended to me so I thought I might as well try.From my four stars you can see I've become a fan of sweet Sookie (who is a bit cutesy but I can forgive her that because she's also no dummy). She's a psychic barmaid who has become the towns crazy lady due to her curse, atleast she views it as a curse.Instead of opening the world for Sookie, her curse has cut her off from it - would you want to know what people are REALLY thinking about you all the time? Sookie doesn't and has lived a sheltered life to escape the constant noise of peoples thoughts. Until Bill.Bill is Sookie's fantasy man, well if you ignore the fangs and dead until dawn part. She can't read his mind and that is what is important. Being with Bill also puts a big target on this small town girl. Suddenly the preternatural community is eyeing Sookie like a gift from above and they all seem to want a piece of her.Her gift opens a whole new world for Sookie and we get to travel along with her as she discovers it. It's a fun trip that skims along the surface. Nothing too deep or dark but good for a laugh and a sigh.
2	1192924800	I started reading this with a completly open mind to a new writer and a new style, but I really just could not get into this book. It felt rushed, dry and a little messy.The plot was moving along so fast I could not keep up with it. The characters weren't introduced well and I didn't really feel anything for them. The romance did not seem real to me and the sex scenes were about as dry as the characters themselves. The story bounced around so much I really just could not get myself sucked into it.Overall I certainly did not care for this book, but in no way am I saying this to disrespect the writer. I have only the utmost respect for any author, no matter what I think about the book. And this in no way turns me off from reading one of her other books if one catches my eye.
4	1192579200	This was a great read.  I enjoyed the characters and I look forward to reading the next Sookie adventure.
5	1192060800	I love anything vampire.  This was a new twist for me, a little bit of humor, romance, and adventure.  Plus the whole murder mystery aspect.  This book delivered entertainment on several levels, very multi-faceted.  I can't wait to read the other books in the series.  How can you not love a book where the vampire/male-hero is named "Bill"?
2	1190592000	I've read various contemporary vampire series and figured I'd give this a try. I suppose I could call it kind of cute at times. But that doesn't seem right for a vampire book. But that's it. I think the cover really says it all. The vampire, Bill, has no personality whatsoever. I know he's a vampire, but he could have a little more depth. He's kind of boring. And Sookie... well, I can think of several words to describe her, none of which are very flattering. But, she reminds me of a bad actress. Know how when you see a movie with a character that just clearly can't act? And you want to like her but it's just bad...? That's what Sookie reminds me of. And she spends half the novel crying. I don't know. It was different, so I will probably give the second one a shot.
4	1189987200	I'll admit that I'm obsessed with vampire romance novels.  I haven't been able to find anything to read in between Black Dagger Brotherhood novels.  It was actually getting quiet irritating reading 50 pages of a book and putting it down forever.  Thank goodness for Sookie Stackhouse.  Being from the South has its full advantages when reading this series.  The "War of Southern Aggression..."  come on...thats just hilarious.  This book takes a little getting used to reading, but after the first couple of chapters, you have to know what happens.  It is also good to read if you are just getting into romance novels because the love scenes are not quiet as graphic as some other series.  All in all, a light, humourous read.  Plus, the second and third books are even better!
5	1187308800	Although I should know better than to judge a book by its cover, for the longest time I refused to read this series because the cover just didn't seem to fit a vampire book, however I was running low on books to read, and I've seen Charlaine Harris's name on reviews of several books I adore so I figured I'd go ahead and give it a try. It was well worth the money I spent for the book, and I have a new author to read now.The characterizations are wonderful and Harris puts a new spin on many of things. Sookie, is a wonderful light hearted main female character and pretty unique in the genera as she seems more down to earth--despite her disability [the ability to read minds]. The vampires in the book cross a wide varieties of spectrums-- from Bill a vampire trying to mainstream it, to Bubba whose drug problem when he was human affected his turning and unlife, as well as the more stereotypical vampires. The plot was also quite solid, with enough twists to keep you entertained.I am looking forward to reading the other novels in this series.
5	1187222400	" Sookie Stackhouse is a small-time cocktail waitress in small-town Louisiana. She's quite, keeps to herself, and doesn't get out much. Not because she's not pretty. She is. It's just that, well, Sookie has this sort of "disability". She can read minds. And that doesn't make her too dateable. And then along comes Bill. He's tall, dark, handsome- and Sookie can't hear a word he's thinking. He's exactly the type of guy she's been waiting for all her life....But Bill has a disability of his own. He's a vampire with a bad reputation. He hangs with a seriously creepy crowd, all suspected of - big surprise - murder. And when one of Sookie's coworkers is killed, she fears she's next...."This was the introduction of the story on the back cover. But I honestly do think that it is very easy to underestimate the story just by reading that intro. The story is much more intriguing, really catchy and very well written. I have actually started reading the series for the second time and it's as good and as "contagious" as it was the first time I read the books.I definitely recommend these series to those who love paranormal romances/mysteries !!!
4	1186876800	If you enjoy either murder mysteries or Anne Rice and would like to keep something on the shelf for the beach, a plane ride, or a sick day, I would *highly* recommend "Dead Until Dark." It is light reading, to be sure, not high literature, but this book was highly entertaining in a manner that also managed to satisfy most of my "well written" expectations, even though it wasn't profound.I think this series may be a personal taste choice: check out this first novel from the library to see if it suits you, then--if it does--purchase back-ups of the subsequent novels so you can have them on hand for random-reader days. I think you'll find yourself drawn into this very-close-to-reality (with several notable but internally consistent exceptions) world, but you should test-drive it for yourself.
5	1186444800	I thought this book was great.  Sookie is an absolute hoot!  After reading this, I couldn't help but wonder if Stephanie Meyer, author of the Twilight series got her book idea from Ms. Harris.  This book is better than Twilight.  It is fast paced, sexy, and gives the reader a glimpse into Southern culture.
1	1185148800	In the beginning it started out with what seemed like wit and humor... and slowly went further and further downhill.  I never want to read another book by this author ever again.  I only suggest reading this if you want a fluffy book made for lovers of romance novels.  This will not appeal to people at all interested in horror books or vampires.  It has far too much sex and attempts to have an interesting plot but fails badly.  The inclusion of Bubba was the stupidest thing I have ever heard.
5	1183593600	It took a few pages to get used to the authors unorthadox style of writing in the first person, but I ended up loving it and will buy the others in the series. The vampires are pretty cool.
4	1181865600	I was impressed by this book and some of the innovations of it. Usually I don't read vampire books but a friend convinced me to try this author. It's excellent writing with interesting characters (although I was getting a trifle confused at times by who was who).The author can really wring the emotion out of a scene and I used entirely too much Kleenex for this book. But about halfway through I thought, "Gee, that's a little like Laurell K. Hamilton." (In character interactions and changes in the protagonist, I mean.) But I kept reading, secure in this author's originality -- until about 3/4 of the way through when all the Anita Blake character pieces fell into place.I was sorry to see it. Up until then I'd been struck by the originality of some of the concepts. I hope the author can get away from trying to be a Hamilton clone because she does write so very, very well and doesn't need the crutch. Of course if you've never read Laurell K. Hamilton, you've got a treat coming by reading this book.
4	1181520000	Sookie Stackhouse has a lot going for her; she's cute, she's blonde, and she's got a great build.  But she's also a barmaid at Merlotte's with very little money living with her grandmother.  And best yet, she's been saddled with the unfortunate(?) ability of being able to read the minds of those around her.  For this attribute, she's been labeled "weird" by most folk in her hometown of Bon Temps, Louisiana; and cute though she may be, most men don't find her cuteness worth the risk of entertaining her "craziness."  The one day into Merlotte's walks Bill the vampire...and he's really hot...although a bit pale.  Better yet, Sookie discovers that she is completely unable to read his mind.  When she rescues him from two of the town's resident Drainers (people who capture vampires to drain their blood and sell it on the blackmarket), Bill is grateful...and Bill returns that favor to Sookie many times over in the days to come.  With the arrival of the first vampire in Bon Temps, the town is a little on edge.  And when young women begin being killed at an alarming rate, Bill the vampire is of course the suspect of choice....until the real killer eventually comes after Sookie herself....A true mystery with more than it's share of comedic relief, romantic interludes, and just plain drama this is a supernatural series that just can't miss. A really fun read.DYB
3	1181174400	This was a fun and quick read. The story is engaging, and keeps you guessing until the end
3	1180915200	I can't say I really enjoyed this book. Yeah, the premise of a telepath and a vampire held a lot of promise for fun, and so I got it out of the library. But the book was far too dark, with far too many unpleasant people in it, to qualify as "fun".And the author didn't really seem to come up with anything new. Viewing telepathy as a curse isn't new (although I admit it isn't common). And vampire bars just seemed an obvious extrapolation of other minority meeting places, such as gay bars. And even so, I wouldn't call the bar a fun place; the people there made it a place I wouldn't want to hang out in.It was OK enough to finish (I'm quite capable of putting a book down partway through), but it didn't leave me with any inclination to read any more in the series.
5	1180656000	The opening book in Charlaine Harris's Southern Vampire Mysteries, Dead Until Dark is a wonderfully fun, dark, and emotional beginning to a paranormal series filled with vampires, mind readers, and a myriad of other creatures, including, possibly, Elvis.Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress in Bon Temps, afflicted with a unique "disability"--she can read others' minds.  While many people would love to have this problem, Sookie sees it as only an annoyance until she finally meets Bill,  a vampire who strolls into the restaurant. Unfortunately, as the two get to know one another, murders of fellow waitresses begin, and Sookie finds herself drawn into the dark world of vampires as she searches for clues to the deaths of the girls and that of her beloved grandmother.  Bill and his vampire acquaintances are taken with Sookie and soon, amid the turmoil of thoughts and danger, Sookie finds herself in love with him, further complicating matters.This is a truly interesting initial book in a series with lots of dark characters and a mystery that, if not particularly elaborate, is captivating.  You will enjoy Sookie's frenetic style and Bill's vampiric demeanor, and the atmosphere is just gothic enough to keep you on the edge of your seat.  I stayed up late to finish this one, and I think that speaks to its appeal.  Recommended reading, especially for those (like me) who are lovers of the paranormal genre.
5	1180310400	This is an enjoyable introduction to Sookie Stackhouse and her main squeeze, Vampire Bill. Sookie's idiosyncrasies, combined with the local flavor, make for good fun.
5	1179705600	In this hoot of a book, the intrepid and (ultimately) unsinkable Sookie Stackhouse, a barmaid in Bon Temps, Louisiana, zeros in on the handsome stranger who has pulled up a chair in her section.  She rapidly identifies him as the town's first vampire, and asks him his name.  It's Bill.  "Bill?  I thought vampires were all named Alphonse or Langford," Sookie objects.  It goes on from there.  Whether it's our heroine getting Bill the Vamp to lecture on his service in the Civil War to her grandmother's chapter of Descendants of the Glorious Dead, or the practical issues of romance with someone who has to be underground at daybreak, there's a lot of good stuff here.  This may be my favorite vampire story yet.  It's the only one I've read that has a were-collie character, too.
5	1179100800	Ms. Sookie, I know you've been looking for a normal life.  Know you been looking for a good man to treat you right.  Sweetie, there's vamps out there!  Honey, you're a babe in the Louisiana woods!The first in the Southern Vampire Mystery Series...what a treat!!!
5	1178928000	I love almost everything vampire and this book does not disappoint.  It is a great, fun, sexy story about 'modern day vampires.'  I plan on ordering many more books from this series.
2	1175817600	After listening to and enjoying Charlaine Harris's Grave Sights on audiotape, I headed to my library to check out her other books.  I'd read good reviews here of the Sookie Stackhouse Southern Vampire series, so I began with Dead Until Dark.  I must say that I found this book's prose stilted and the dialogue and plot somewhat juvenile.  I found Sookie and her vampire boyfriend, Bill to be shallow characters and the plot vapid compared to those of Harper Connelly and her brother, Tolliver in Grave Sights.  In the future, if I want to read about vampires I'll stick with Laurell Hamilton's edgy and well written Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter novels.
5	1175731200	This book has been popping up in my recommended for you list, forever.  I read some reviews and the plot summary and thought it sounded good; but not good enough to make me want to buy it immediately.  I added it to my wish list where it got ignored for a long time.  Every once in awhile it would pop back up in my recommendation list and I would think about ordering it soon.  Then another reviewer, Tom Knapp/Rambles (.net), recommended it to me, so I finally decided to see what this book was all about.  I can't believe I waited so long to read this book, I absolutely loved it.Sookie Stackhouse looks like a normal, pretty woman.  However, she's a beauty with a special gift that allows her to hear other's thoughts.  Because of this gift, she is looked upon by others with wonder or as some sort of freak.  Sookie works as a waitress in the local bar, for a boss who, for some reason, she has trouble reading his thoughts.  She doesn't date, has a Small circle of friends and still lives at home with her Grandma.  Then one night she saves the new local vampire from some undesirables and her life changes.  Then there are murders happening in this small town; Sookie tries to listen to thoughts to see who the killer is.The difference between this book and other vampire books I have read is that the vampires are not in hiding.  Everyone knows there are vampires and restaurants are even serving synthetic blood to their local vampires.  I thought it was a unique approach, it gave the story a lot more character and depth, and it leaves the possibilities endless.  In this small town people are fascinated with the vampire, are afraid of them and some people just see them as another type of person.  It was exciting to watch the vampires integrate with 'normal' society.Sookie and her vampire, Bill, turn out to be a charming couple.  In a lot of ways he is the stereotypical vampire; he is blood thirsty, really pale, cold and extremely strong.  Then the writer creates an atypical side to this vampire, he longs to be part of a town and home and he is surprisingly tender and loving with Sookie, her friends and family.The supporting characters are just as captivating as Sookie and Bill.  One of the more surprising and clever parts of the story is the identity of a vampire bodyguard that is hired by Bill to watch over Sookie.  I can't say anymore as I don't want to ruin the surprise, but I laughed and laughed, and I am not quite certain if it isn't true!  If this was a brand new book, there would be no doubt that a sequel was coming.  The author leaves us looking forward to hearing more about Sookie, Bill and the rest of the crew.  I can't think of any part of the story that didn't work or flow for me.  It was an enjoyable and entertaining read and I am getting the rest of the books in the series, ASAP.
2	1174608000	The main character is physically and mentally weak (despite being psychic). She cannot fight, defend herself, or take on any physical opponents or obstacles, no combat/fighting stuff. Not too bright (I don't mean this in a bad sense), meaning she is no Sherlock Holmes not even a Watson, not a talented detective, or a person with hunches or sharp intake. Not witty, humorous, sarcastic, feisty, brave, independent, not a lot of supernatural power/skills she is run of the mill. She also thinks flower dresses are sexy. Depending on what you want from your character, if it is any of the above, then not recommended.The entire book is very small-town oriented, no urban feel, no sense of a city or a big and adventurous place with shadows and mysterious strangers lurking in the allies and streets at night. So there is a lot of: ---Billy-Bob comes to the diner a lot, especially on Wednesdays when we serve the cherry pie with milk form the farm located by John creek. Old Marlene used to live down by the creek but moved on up to the Folk street where the Johnson pharmacy used to be, I remember being little and having candy given to me by that nice Mr. Johnson, what a great fellow was he, and there is loud mouthed Mary-Anne she thinks she is something special but everybody knows two year ago she went up the old Minster road and.........---Yes that whole thing I made up, but there is constantly stuff like that and of that nature. Very concentrated on rural themes and tones, I guess the southern vampire mystery title should have been a hint. And if that is not your cup of tea, not recommended.The main character is a virgin (nothing wrong with that)but through the book she is always saying stuff like -I'm sorry, was I bad?-, -did you like me, because oh I'll get better-,-are you sure that was alright?-,-is it me?-,-are you sure, it was not bad?-. She also repeatedly says that she is not experienced, but the male character is very experienced and knows everything, assuring her it will be ok because basically he is a walking sex encyclopedia(side note the leading male is not a beefcake,but is boring).The main character is also passive, and asks tentatively and nicely her vampire boyfriend -if maybe, you know just for this night, if you don't mind, just this once, can you not take blood from me, maybe?- when she is feeling physically ill from too much blood loss.The New York Times stated the author writes "neatly", exactly there is no mess or mayhem, the story is nice, clean, neat, drawn by a ruler. No unexpected twists or turns, not emotional, or passionate, no immense upheavals, everything just calmly moves along.Some might like what this story offers and others might not, I found it lacking.
5	1173830400	I had some reservations about reading this book. I ended up giving it a try because I have read some mysteries by Charlaine Harris. I have to say I was really impressed with this book's combination of vampires and mystery. A lot of the vampire fiction out there is really straight romance, but I definitely like a mystery in my books.The character of Sookie is likable. She's a little naive, and she's not dark like Anita Blake. The two characters are totally different. Anita is more hard boiled. I am addicted to this series, and Mrs. Harris has set up a cast of characters that really take off later. One big plus for me is the setting, a small town in Louisiana. It's so hard to find a decent series set in the South.
5	1173657600	Wow, Charlaine Harris got me out of my "reading rut" in a big way.  I read Dead Until Dark in 2 days and I'm hooked in Sookie, Bill and the rest of the "people" in Bon Temps.  Legalized vampires ~ that got my attention right away, and the book held my interest completely.  Can't wait to start my next Sookie book!
5	1173312000	This book is fun, laugh out loud fun.  The whole series of Sookie Stackhouse books are an excellent read.I highly recommend them all.
5	1172448000	I decided to take a risk early Saturday morning.  A snow storm was coming.  I had no plans.  I felt like reading something fun, compelling, and smart.  Dead Until Dark was all three -- and it was scary.  I read the book quickly; it's safe to say I couldn't put it down.  This is popular fiction at its best.  AND for a few moments winter disappeared.  I wish I had the second book -- I'd have already started reading it.
5	1171756800	WHAT A SUPER SERIES OF BOOKS!!! (ALL BUT BOOK #6, DEFINITELY DEAD) ---ENTERTAINING, EXCITING, AND JUST PLAIN FUN!!!
2	1169164800	Good grief...I'm not sure how to rate this book.  I found Ms. Harris prose very annoying...who using (  ) to clarify the main character's thoughts???  I'm convinced now that even I could write a book!!  But I found the characters likable and the concept of the story was interesting even if her way of telling it got on my nerves.  By the end of the book I became use to her writing style...even though I still didn't particularly like it.  Of course now I find myself wondering what happens to Sookie next...so yes I broke down and bought the next book!  YIKES!  So I give it 2 stars...maybe the next book will be better!
5	1169078400	I have to admit that while I have a fondness for the whole vampire/werewolf/supernatural thing, sometimes it really seems kinda played out. I have such a fondness for this series - these characters - that it touches something in my heart that helps me remember that true childlike wonder and joy still exist in the world. Sookie Stackhouse is a wonderful combination of sugar, spice and grit. I love that she can be subjected to many very rough and horrible things, and yet never lose her innate sense of seeing the world for all the good in it. It almost breaks my heart when bad things happen to her and she just has to take it on the chin. This is easily one of my favorite series' currently going. The first time I saw the cover art, I swear I almost cried, it was just so...magical. There's a strange sense of awe and wonder I get when I read Charlaine's work, and I hope that she continues writing about this truly touching world for many years to come.
5	1166832000	...is just so much fun. Read it and enjoy! These are keepers!!! Worth buying in hard back to keep on your shelf. You will laugh every time you read them.
3	1164585600	There was nothing spectacular about the book, but it reads very quickly and explores some interesting topics fairly creatively.  I read it for a book group and it was one of those books I would never have picked up on my own.  While I'm not running out to get the next book in the series, I certainly would pick it up for a good vacation read next time I'm looking for something light & easy.
5	1164412800	Dead Until Dark (2001) is the first Rural Fantasy novel in the Southern Vampire Mystery series.  Sookie Stackhouse is a telepathic waitress at Merlotte's Bar and Grill in Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Most of her longterm friends know about her disability, but some bar patrons just think that she is crazy.Ever since they came out of the coffin (vampire humor) fours year ago, Sookie has been waiting for a vampire to drop by the bar.  New Orleans is full of them, but rural northern Louisiana doesn't seem to attract many.  One day, the first vampire in Bon Temps comes into the bar and sits down.In this novel, Sookie does a little dance step from joy before she grabs her pad and heads over to the vampire's table.  He is pale, of course, but quite handsome.  He asks, in cool, clear tones, for a bottle of synthetic blood, but has to settle for red wine;  Sam Merlotte, the bar's owner, had ordered synthetic blood, but hasn't received the shipment.As she is serving the vampire, Mack Rattray makes one of his usual comments about Crazy Sookie.  When Mack and his wife Denise had first come into the bar, Sookie had rudely listened to their thoughts (she had been very bored that night) and she knew more about them than anyone else in town.  She hadn't told anyone what she knew, but their thoughts gave her a very low opinion of the pair.  Then, too, their behavior hadn't done anything to make her think more highly of them.When the Rattrays move over to the vampire's table, Sookie comments on their manners to Arlene, another waitress.  Arlene hadn't yet caught on to the new guy being a vampire, but Sookie sets her straight.  Denise apparently already knew that he was a vamp, for she sat there showing off her neck to the guy.Then Jason, Sookie's brother, comes into the bar.  After hugging her, he checks out the bar to see who's available.  He has his eyes on DeeAnne, but she has come in with a trucker.  No matter, the other women in the bar made not-so-subtle efforts to attract his attention.After a while, Sookie looks back at the table with the vampire and the Rattrays and notices an avid expression of Mack's face.  She listens to his thoughts for a while and learns that Mack had been in jail for vampire draining.  Usually draining is fatal to the vampires and, even if they survive, it takes twenty years to recover (according to what Sookie had heard on Oprah).When the vamp leaves with the Rat couple, Sookie borrows a chain from Jason's truck and follows them.  After some fast and furious action, the Rats leave without their vampire blood.  Yet Denise tries to run over Sookie and the vamp on the way out.A few days later, the vamp comes back to the bar and Sookie arranges to meet him after work so that she can ask him to do a favor.  Sookie's Gran is a member of the Descendants of the Glorious Dead and would like Bill the Vampire to give a presentation on life during the Civil War.  Bill agrees to meet with her out back, but leaves shortly thereafter.When Sookie gets off work, she doesn't see Bill's car in the parking lot.  Shrugging it off, she heads toward her own car and is surprised when the Rats jump out and attack her.  They seem intent on beating her to death.  She grabs a leg and tries to bite it, but a kick to her back makes her let go.  She hears a dog growling in the background and the Rats start looking around for the animal.  Then Sookie hears screaming near by.After a while, silence surrounds her.  Someone speaks to her, but she is only paying attention to her injuries.  Then she notices Bill, mouth red with blood, talking to her.  She tells him that she is dying.  He picks her up and takes her out into the woods, then offers her a drink from his bleeding arm.She starts to feel better and soon her injured arm feels like it is not broken any more.  Bill takes her back to her car.  She starts to asks him about the dog, but he has already vanished.In this story, Sookie starts dating Bill.  She is pleased to learn that she can't read Bill's mind;  no problems with accidentally reading his thoughts!  Also, he lives just down the road, beyond the cemetery, from her grandmother's house, where Sookie also lives.The Rattrays are very dead.  According to the coroner, they died when a tornado overturned their trailer and crushed them.  Of course, Sookie knows that vampires are very strong and can quite easily turn over a parked trailer and a small car and even break tree limbs.  Besides, there is no other evidence of a tornado at that time and place.  However, she doesn't bother telling anyone else her suspicions.The coroner has other victims.  First Maudette Pickens dies from strangulation, but with a vampire bite on her leg.  Then Dawn Green dies by strangulation with vampire bites on her body.About half the customers at Morlotte's believe that Bill is the killer and the other half think that somebody from out of town did the murders.  Sookie asks Bill to take her to Fangtasia, the vampire bar in Shreveport, and learns that both women were known there.This novel has a strong Southern flavor, much like the author's Aurora Teagarden and Lily Bard mysteries.  Bon Temps is just another Southern rural town in a time when vampires have gone public.  Of course, other preternatural creatures also live in Bon Temps or visit its environs, but they haven't yet announced their presence.Highly recommended to Harris fans and to anyone else who enjoys tales of Southern lifestyles, preternatural creatures, and telepathic waitresses.-Arthur W. Jordin
4	1163203200	It must have been the Halloween season that drew me to a vampire book.  This is the first Charlaine Harris book I have read, and I was thoroughly entertained.  The book was witty and complicated.  I read many mystery novels each year, and very few books keep me guessing.  The only reason this book did not rate five stars, is because I do not have the entire remaining series on my nightstand. I look forward to reading every Charlaine Harris Southern Vampire Mystery.
2	1162771200	I'll have to join the other readers who were appauled at the poor writing in this book.  When I first started reading it, it reminded me of something - I couldn't put my finger on it exactly, then I realized that it reads like letters to a forum.  "I never met a vampire before, so imagine my surprise . .  ." it just has the same tone, lack of detail, and lack of believability.  Writing in the first person is difficult to do well - you need to be able to switch in and out of it, and you need to be able to transport the reader inside the person's head.  Let's just say that Sookie phones it in.In addition to that, the story seems to go in a lot of directions, and there are details that are thrown in with no logic or build up or explanation.  Sookie's cat, Tina, is killed - I don't remember her even mentioning a cat before.  You don't feel very sad or scared.  Sookie's boss ends up having a secret revealed - well, you know that there is something going on with him, but what is revealed is pretty bizzare, and it's taken in stride like you just found out that he has asthma - when the secret is more like he has two heads.As someone else pointed out, Sookie endures quite a bit of shock and tragedy with not much more than a few sentances given to her grief.  She pursues the mysteries, and then seems to just let it go for a while.  The tempo of the writing and story is very uneven.I gave this book 2 stars because I finished it.
5	1161475200	I grew up in the parts of Louisiana mentioned in this book so that added quite a bit to the story for me, but it was a great read. Ms. Harris put just enough laughs to keep it going. I was very impressed and I will keep with the series!
5	1158105600	This is the first book in an ever growing series.  I adored it and I'm all too quickly making my way through the rest of the series.  Please Ms. Harris, don't stop!  Each time I start a new one I think, "oh no, it's not as good as the last" but, by page 3 I'm totally swept up in the story.  Sample this treat with care.  You may end up buying them all.
5	1154563200	Sookie Stackhouse is not your typical heroine.  She's beautiful, but seen as a freak by her small town because her clairvoyance made her behave oddly as a kid.  She hides her powers and yearns for love.  But knowing someone's every thought is a romantic turn-off.  Vampires have come out of the closet -- or the coffin and are legally in public.  There's a lot of fear and hatred of them, but Sookie's willing to give them a chance.  It's a relief to her when she discovers tht she can't read the mind of a handsome, attractive vampire named Bill.  Romance, action and an interesting heroine.  Harris's writing is simple, but expressive and Sookie is a great character.
1	1154390400	This has to be one of the worst books I've ever read.  The plot was stagnant, the characters were boring, and after I read the book, I wished I could write the author demanding my time back.  Do something better with your money - in this case, taking your ten dollars and gleefully lighting it on fire is still a better choice.  I can not tell you how bad this book is. From the wooden dialogue, to the dead cat cliche (Anyone notice that anytime a bad hack of an  author needs something "exciting" to happen, they sacrifice a cat?  Not even remotely original, people.) to the snooze through sex scenes, it was the biggest piece of garbage I've ever read.  And people, I was not expecting much.  I love chick lit!  I love vampire books!  No matter how cheesy, I'm usually thrilled with them.  Not this one.  She could've made an effort and made it light drivel.  I would've accepted that.  I would have been fine with mediocre.  But instead, she didn't even attempt to go for a solid C- and went straight for the F+.  In short, this book stinks.  Buy something else.
4	1154217600	Vampire story under a original point of view... quick to read. I enjoy reading it.
5	1153872000	I originally started out with dead as a doornail.  After I read that, I went back and read the whole series.  They are great!  Sookie as a heroine is down-to-earth, but playful.  Not too exasperating.  Definitely give this book a try.
1	1152057600	This book went directly to Half Price Books after I managed to choke myself through it.  A talented writer Charlaine Harris is not.  Her style is boring, bland, and repetitious.  And her "heroine," Sookie, is laughably trite, even for a telepath.  Is there even a reason she has these powers?  Do I care?  Why does anyone, when the plot moves at a dirigible's pace?  Just, no.  Save yourself a few bucks and pick up a Kim Harrison novel or an older Laurell K. Hamilton.  Even Karen Chance.  But don't waste your money on a book that should have been given an "F" in Creative Writing class.
5	1151798400	I think these books are great!  They are fun, light reads.  I recognize that they are fairly trite, the plot is somewhat obvious,  & the mystery isn't very mysterious.  But I love the characters & the story.  I can't quite put my finger on why, but I'll keep reading, just the same.  Sometimes we need to take ourselves a little less seriously & just enjoy something.
4	1150502400	Not as awsome at L. Hamilton's Anite Blakes, but a nice readI am looking forward to reading the others in the series to see how Sookie progresses.  Not as simple as I first thought she was.  Likeing the character mix, again this appears after book 1 to be a good quick and fun read!
3	1150243200	If you're looking for some frivolous summer reading, this is it. Sookie Stackhouse, a barmaid in Louisiana and also a mind-reader, is the heroine of Harris's novel. Mostly everyone thinks Sookie is crazy because she spends half her mind functioning and the other half trying not to invade people's thoughts. This changes when the little town's first vampire (vampires were recently recognized as legal citizens), Bill, arrives. Sookie is immediately smitten, and when she rescues Bill from a dangerous couple, he begins to be smitten with her, too. Then the murders start.I don't want to give away too much of the plot, so I'll leave it at that. I was very leery at the beginning of the book, because it read very much like a romance novel, with every detail of the heroine's outfit being described, as well as her every movement. There was also some repetition with some points about her telepathy, where I felt, "OK, I get it already." After the first few chapters, the book picks up, and I didn't want to put it down. The writing isn't fantastic, but it is humorous in places, and the world that Harris creates is interesting.I'm giving the book three stars because there were a few key problems. First, some things don't make sense, like why Sookie doesn't use her telepathy on certain people to alleviate her suspicions (I can't be more specific without ruining the plot), and why Sookie has only one glimpse of a vampire's mind throughout the book (the book concentrates on why she can't read Bill's mind, but she does get a glimpse of one other vampire's mind, but not much is made of it). Also, I wasn't as surprised or involved in the ultimate twist, which was the identity of the town's murderer. I was much more interested in why Bill left town (the cause of which ended up being somewhat corny and somewhat amusing!).To summarize, this was an entertaining book that kept me reading. It isn't dark or gothic; it's more of a mystery with supernatural elements that are more or less standard in Harris's created world. The sometimes-romance-novel quality and a few cornball elements made this more of a frivolous summer read than an instant favorite.
5	1150070400	I have a girlfriend who's into Anne Rice's vampires -- I listened once to an audio book and couldn't do it again -- too dark, too violent.  I am an avid fan of 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer' - Joss Wheadon is the best!  I miss Buffy and when I first saw these books on the shelf I didn't grab them - I waited until several were out and bought all four of them -- once I read those I found #5 and have just finished #6 (hardback) -- so I'm waiting for the next books -- don't keep us waiting too long Ms. Harris!Charlaine's characters are very likeable and her main character - Sookie is wonderful.  She's not full of herself just coping with her life like the rest of us.  She's great at listening to her 6th sense -- not the telepathic abilities but her reading of people's intent via their body language.  Bill is an OK character but Eric is more fun and a challenge for her.  Several male Sup's enjoy Sookie's company..... I have enjoyed all of the books in this series and highly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of 'Buffy'!Enjoy!
1	1148601600	(This review is bitter, but that's because I'm upset that I wasted my money.)This book is rediculous and repulsive.  It seems to be aimed at the kind of people who watch soap operas, because that's the only kind of person I could find who would enjoy this kind of 'novel'.  The author doesn't bother to describe any of the settings, scenery, or personalities in detail - the only thing I knew about the supporting characters by the time I couldn't read any more was what they looked like and who they had slept with (good to know!  /sarcasm).Same for the main character: She has the ability to read minds, but the only time she talks about it, she's saying she can't stand it - and then it goes in depth about how it ruins her sex life.  I'm sure there are dozens of ups and downs about being able to read someone's mind... too bad the author can't seem to get past a single aspect of it.Oh, and I guess there was something about a vampire.  Unfortunately, it takes more than a 'unique' character to make a book interesting.What a retarded book.  I'm not going to wade through pages of soap opera just to get a little murder mystery plot.  Amazon.com is being generous by giving the lowest ranking reviews a star, because this book doesn't deserve one.
5	1147996800	Ok, I have to say, I am officially hooked...or should I say fanged?  I am completely enthralled with this book and I have just spent $30-some on purchasing the next 4 books in the series, and I'm waiting til I can afford the 6th!  For any of you who have read Robin McKinley's "Sunshine" and were longing for more, these are the books for you!  There's more humor and the vampires aren't quite as scary (although, still scary enough!), but there's still that element of romance.  Plus, vampires are an acknowledged segment of society and there are some supernatural humans such as shape shifters and our heroine Sookie the mindreader.  Like Sunshine, Sookie doesn't really like to acknowledge her gift (or disability according to her point of view).  The greatest scenes are seeing Bill walking into bars or when the cop comes tapping on his window after he and Sookie have just been, umm, "messing around".Also like "Sunshine", the heroine rescues our resident hunky vampire from emminent death and in turn, they end up protecting each other and teaming up to solve a mystery.  Rather than vampires being totally evil, except for Con, in Sunshine, there seems to be a balance.  Vampires, as inhuman as they are, are surprisingly human in terms of the different types, their level of evil and even a vampire pecking(?) order.  I love the idea of vampires "Mainstreaming", in other words, trying to live among humans and interact to remember their previous human existence.  They live off sythetic blood with the occasional, err, nip, here and there!There is a hint of Anne Rice too, but all the elements of Anne Rice that normally sort of disgust me are missing from these books.  It truly is the perfect combination!This novel is so well written!  You feel completely immersed, the words just sort of disappear off the page.  I could picture everything like is was a movie.  For me, that's the sign of a really great book.  To be honest, I could not put it down!  If vampires did exist, I would want them to be JUST like Bill!  He's the perfect combination of tall, dark & handsome and the traditional sexy lure of the mysterious vampire.  Sookie is a great heroine too, she blonde and beautiful but very down to earth and not some perky cheerleader type.  Even being a mindreader, she's real!I reccommend these novels wholeheartedly, I'm DYING (no pun intended) to read the rest!
5	1146960000	If you like vampires but you are not to fond of the dark and gruesome side of the usually classic vampire novel this is the book for you! The author makes it a very girlish and entertaining book to read, and the vampires make my mouth water. I brought every book in this series ever since! Definently worth it:)
4	1146614400	It's a surprisingly engaging read. I'm normally not one to actually buy vampire books, so it was an unusual purchase for me; however, I don't regret buying this book. It was a fun read, and I've gone back and read it again. The mystery angle is played skillfully, and most of the characters seem well developed.However, there's one thing that bothers me about the book, and that's the fact that Sookie seems to be just on the road to becoming Superwoman. Half the charm of the novel is how much Sookie is just a sweet southern gel with a supernatural ability that frightens her and seems like it does her more harm than good. The pace and direction of the novel towards the end started to remind me of RPGs in which characters gradually inch towards godlike power.One might also complain that the ending is too tidy, but it's on par for a typical mystery novel, and some of us enjoy happy endings to novels.
5	1146528000	Did you like Buffy? How about Angel? Did you get caught up in the whole Spike reclamation arc? How about Veronica Mars?Even though the plot of this book is no where near the storylines of those TV shows the texture is the same, and it is heartily enjoyable and engrossing.I actually became interested in this series when I read that Alan Ball of "Six Feet Under" was a big fan and was developing a HBO pilot about these books. Since I am a fan of some of the HBO series like "Deadwood", "Oz", and "Six Feet Under" I was intrigued. I ordered the first book online and after reading the first 10 pages quickly ordered the rest of the series that was in print.Sookie is flawed, to be sure, but she is real, and Charlaine Harris shows us Sookie's reality in her encounters with both the living and the dead.If you like a little mystery, a little love, a little suspense, a little adventure, a little blood-letting, and a whole lot of good reading then get this book.
5	1146182400	I stared reading this series when I read a short story in the series (later on) in the book "Bite" that included other vampire stories, among them one in the Anita Blake series by Laurell K. Hamilton (one of my favorite vampire series), now I am quickly becoming addicted to this one.Contrary to the reviews belows, there is an ending, so I don't understand why they say that. We have multiple murders, we try to guess who is committing the crimes, we blame innocent people, and at the end Sookie get attacked by the murderer, whom we find out is the real killer since she gets into his brain (she can read minds) and finds out.The story begins when she is at work, like usual, and then suddenly a vampire enters, who happens to be Bill.  She realizes that he is a vampire and notices that a very popular vampire-drainer couple is also at the restaurant (they drain vampires and can sell a vial of their powerful blood for up to 200 bucks a pop, and they don't tip either).  So, when she sees Bill leave and the couple after him, she knows that they are looking to drain him too, and she could not stand to know that they would be doing that. So she borrows a chain from her brother and proceeds to kick their ass.From then on, there is a very strong attraction between Bill and Sookie, enough to make them both think about what they are doing.  At the same time, women are being killed off, suffocated and raped, who happen to be vampire lovers- meaning they give themselves to vampires so that they can feed off them.  Sookie, as well as others, try to figure out who is killing these women, so she drops her shields at random times to see if she can hear anything, but it doesn't always work.I see how this book can be a pilot, but we do have a conflict and a resolution, yet, the reader somehow knows that this is the first book in a series.  Also, Bill and Sookie together are SOO HOT!! Just reading about their relationship makes me want to continue the series, also because of all the different plots offered, I just can't wait to continue the series!
3	1142899200	I'll keep this brief because it's basically what I say about all these series books.This isn't a novel.  It's a pilot.  It solely exists to set up all the situations that will be explored in further novels of the series.  If you like that kind of thing, then go for it.  If you're like me though and would rather just enjoy a good novel that doesn't demand you read the next one for any kind of satisfaction, then skip it.While I didn't hate the novel, it still hit a lot of my pet peeves.1) Everyone loves the heroine.  Well, not quite everyone, but pretty damn close.  From what I've read about the rest of the series, this only gets worse every book.2) Vampires are seductive, animalistic predators who can snap into a blood frenzy at the slightest moment.  Fine, except I find it hard to believe such creatures could ever be welcomed openly into society.3)  No ending.Also, for a supposedly "Southern Vampire" novel, I didn't get much sense of the South.  It seemed like it could've taken place just about anywhere in small town America.Eh, people love it.  Who am I to argue?  I'm just not one of them.
5	1140739200	I just started this series a month ago and I'm already on book five. Not only are they entertaining but they are very light reads. The characters are both intriguing and well thought out. My only complaint is with the way Sookie Stackhouse dresses. Apparently she is frump girl. But that is my only complaint. Definately a good story. You won't be bored at all, and it's not cheesy like some other vampire stories that I've read.
3	1138924800	Since I read "undead and unwed", I've been interested in reading about vampires, though some horrific and gross. This book is my choice for vmapire story, but it was something missing. Until I read about 50 pages, I was not excited. The story is a little slow, and the event was not so much fun. Rather it is very dull, I mean, it's a bald style. So, it is enjoyalbe but you can delay reading it. However, I ordered a second book, 'cause I like Bill, the vampire who protects the female heroine.If you like reading vampires, and telepathic things, this books is ok. But I'm not sure I can keep up with this series. Once I fall in love with one male hero, it's hard to change to the other. I've just known that the third series of this has another male hero who falls in love with heroine. Too bad.
5	1137715200	If you like Stephanie Plum you're gonna love Sookie Stackhouse!  She's a waitress/barmaid that uses her telepathic abilities on the side to assist the local vampire lord. She meets warewolves, shape shifters and a variey of other-worlders.  This series is fun, easy reading fantasy with a touch of dark romance!  Enjoy!I found the first 5 books at the library.  The 6th will be out May 06.1.  Dead Until Dark, 2.  Living Dead in Dallas, 3. Club Dead, 4. Dead to the World, 5. Dead as a Doornail, 6. Definitely Dead
5	1133308800	Imagine Sookie Stackhouse's frustration. She's young, beautiful, kind,... and telepathic. She can hear people's thoughts. This makes being in crowds difficult, and dating even more challenging. Hearing your lover's thoughts while in the throes of passion is a real icy shower. Then one day a handsome stranger enters the bar where Sookie waits tables. She can't read his thoughts. Heaven! Or is it hell? Bill turns out to be a vampire. Not the Bella Lugosi scary kind, but the Antonio Banderas cool, sexy kind. Sookie falls head over heels and promptly yields her maidenhead to the skilled and apparently smitten Undead One.  Life seems great, in spite of  inconveniences like your boyfriend never being able to hang around for breakfast the morning after.  And then one of Sookie's co-workers ends up dead.  From that point Sookie is plunged into the world of the Supes: vampires, shapeshifters, werewolves; the whole lot.Author Charlaine Harris writes with humor and extraordinary imagination of mystery, sex, and the foibles of human (and superhuman) nature. It's nigh unto impossible to put this book down, so just plan on one long night of reading by the fire.  And save yourself some time and simultaneously buy the next several in the series, because one just isn't enough!
2	1130716800	I've started reading the Sookie Stackhouse books and have found them to be my guilty pleasure.  I enjoy the characters and the world they're set in, but there are just too many logic flaws for my continued enjoyment.  It started in me in the first book, when Sookie is being stalked by a serial killer.  Her friends all know about her predicament, but seem alright with letting her babysit.  I've met plenty of stupid people in my life, but non dumb enough to leave their kids with a woman who is admittedly being stalked by a murder.  Also, in the third book, she learns that werewolves or shape shifter can only have one werewolf/shifter child when two mate.  This means that the werewolf/shifter population is cut in half each generation, and if they have been around for hundreds, or maybe thousands of years, there should be practically none left at all, yet they're everywhere in the story.  I enjoy the characters and the plot lines, but there are just too many flaws, unexplained foolish decisions by characters, and general inconsistencies with the fictional world they live in to get through to completely enjoy this series.  Where as Ann Rice seriously needs an editor to cut, Harris needs an editor to critique.Harris also has a vary limited bag of tricks to drive the action forwards.  In between times of action or intrigue, there is almost always a sex scene, or description of a rock hard body Sookie wants.  The writing is fun, but not crafted well enough to hold the readers attention without this.  Some say it's a blend of several genres, but the romance is lacking, the mystery is full of illogic plots and character motivation, which in turn makes it very hard to suspend disbelief for the fantasy.  My recommendation for anyone looking to crack into this series is look elsewhere.
5	1129766400	Love them, love them, love them!  Anyone who thinks that there's to much casual sex have not tried Hamiltons latest efforts.  Harris keeps it just right!
5	1129161600	I have no idea why I love these books so much, maybe pure escapism, maybe the humor, maybe just fun reading. I'm shocked that I even started the first one -not my usual type of reading -but then had to buy all five in the series. Keep writing...can't wait for the 6th!
1	1128988800	I read a lot, most of it this sort of thing, horror, vampires, supernatural mysteries.  For anyone who does much reading, this book is troublesome.  The dialogue is ridiculous.  Its so poorly written that about half way through, i hardly came to a page that i didn't roll my eyes and close the book for a second or more before forcing myself to continue.  I kept hoping it would redeem itself, but it didn't.  It seems as if it has no form.  The only thing giving it any kind of flow is that it happens chronologically.  Otherwise, the scenes are oddly placed and you find yourself wondering what in the world one scene has to do with another.  The characters were flat and lifeless.  The main vampire, Bill, was faceless and invisible to me.  I could not see him in my head as i read the story.  In fact, none of the characters registered with me.  If you are reading a well written book, for instance, something from Stephen King, you can see every detail so much so that i often cannot remember if i have seen a movie version of a S.K. book or if i only read it because the movie is already there in my mind.  So... bottom line, stick to the Anita Blake series for fun in vampire land.
1	1127433600	I was hoping for an interesting, exciting book somewhere along the lines of Laurell K Hamilton's Anita Blake series. However, I got Dead Until Dark instead. It is not only boring, but I guess I just don't like the whole southern girly-girl "I need a big, strong, possibly undead boyfriend to take care of me" thing. This book really was very boring, and I didn't even finish it. I don't recommend the series.
3	1126483200	"Dead Until Dark" has a great fantasy hook: the main character, Sookie, is a telepath who is inundated with other people's thoughts.  The setting is an alternate current day, where vampires have newly become legally recognized citizens.  Sookie is enamoured of the first vampire she meets -- she cannot read his thoughts, which is simply wonderful.  While dating this vampire, Sookie learns more than she wanted to know about vampires.I enjoyed this book.  The first one-third was well written and quite enjoyable -- 5-stars.  The rest of the book was a disapointment.  Scarcely a page goes by without some reference to someone having casual sex with a complete stranger.  Some of the sex is quite explicit.  Sookie is a bit more reserved than this, but not by much.  Monogomy, committment and marraige are scarce and not considered to be particularly desirable.  Also, the main plotline explores racism.  Mostly, this is racism between humans and vampires, but plenty is between Caucasians & African Americans.  Though thoughtfully executed, this makes for a rather uncomfortable book -- think "The Color Purple" or "Kiss of the Spider Woman" -- and that isn't the mood I want out of a fantasy novel.
3	1125273600	Any Southern fiction fan would enjoy this book, and it's not strictly for fantasy readers. The vampire setting is completely fun, and the narrator's special disability (mind reading) is portrayed well.  Sookie is a likeable hardworking Southern gal who has to deal with some issues most people never face. This is a mystery and a love story wrapped up in a wacky little package, and it makes for terrific reading.
4	1123286400	I started reading Charlaine Harris to get a break from Anita Blake. I enjoyed the characters, mainly Eric, who I would like to see much more of.I liked the interaction between the characters and the sex scenes, which are well written.
4	1121644800	I wasn't familiar with Ms. Harris' Southern Vampire series when I bought "Living Dead in Dallas" at a train station bookstore a couple of years ago.  What a fun surprise! I picked up "Dead Until Dark" last week and really enjoyed it.  It was a quick read and a good story.  The heroine, Sookie Stackhouse, is very well written. She's a cocktail waitress plagued with a special "disability".  She can read minds.  This gift drives her crazy.  She can't go to college, work or even date without putting up walls in her head so she can't hear what everyone around her is thinking.  Then she meets Bill.  He's polite, handsome, has his own house and Sookie can't read his mind.  He's perfect!  But Bill's a vampire, which complicates matters slightly.  Bill is a "mainstream" vampire, meaning he lives openly with humans, but that doesn't make dating him any easier.  Sookie finds herself targeted by a psycho who's killing vampire groupies.  Sookie's no groupie, but she's frightened and concerned because the people she cares about are also coming under attack.  Bill and even Sookie's brother are under suspicion for the murders. During the course of the story, Sookie realizes that she can continue to feel like a freak because of her "disability" or she can use it to help find the killer.  It doesn't work out quite like she planned, but in the end she's a little less naive about life and love.
5	1120262400	A waitress in a small restaurant in a small town in Louisiana, Sookie Stackhouse, seems to live a quiet life. The only feature that seems to be of interest to her friends and relatives is her unwillingness or inability to enter into a romantic relationship. However, that situation changes when she meets the mysterious Bill, who seems like a perfect catch for her - apart from the fact that he is a vampire.In this world, vampires have re-entered normal society, although their status in quasi-legal and uncertain - indeed. There seem to be numerous people out to exploit them, either by draining and stealing their blood or else using their supernatural powers for their own ends. These problems afflict Bill too and he must spend his time fighting against these exploiters and more dangerous foes. The vulnerability he faces in trying to integrate into society means he must keep a number of his practices secret: in this sense then, we may read the novel as a partly allegorical treatment of intercultural relationships, although this idea is only very slightly explored. The ability of Sookie to endure a series of grueling physical and mental adventures is also a little difficult to accept, but we are at least spared from Anne Rice-style agonizing and angst.One of the pleasures of a vampire novel is in the extent to which the author will claim that well-known people are really vampires - here we are tantalized by the thought that, on his death-bed (or death-toilet), a man, known as The King, has been restored to life by the dark embrace. This novel is set in the southern states of the USA and there is a nice sense of time and place, with relationships among the major characters defined according to (or at least influenced by) this context. On the whole, the book is well-enough written and represents a pleasant read for those whose imagination can extend to accepting vampires and other creatures of the night entering albeit somewhat diffidently into modern human society.
5	1117152000	Paperback Digital has done a select few audio CD's in MP3 format.  This means that you are going to have to either 1)listen to them on your computer or 2) use them in a CD player that specifically plays MP3 format.  There are two narrators.  Sookie's voice and that of the other female characters are read by Christine Marshall.  Bill and the other male characters when quoted directly are read by William Dufris.  They both do good accents and if sometimes they seem a bit over the top, well it's not serious literature.Ten and a half hours of entertainment for less than $16 has a movie with popcorn, large coke and a package of junior mints beat all hollow.
5	1117152000	Loads of fun people! Reminds me of a very light version of Laurell K. Hamilton. All of the Sookie Stackhouse books really are not to be missed, the writing and the characters are complete, and the author's humor is infectious. You bond with the characters and there problems, and are sad when the book is finished. These books are keepers! Read them slow! A real treasured author.
5	1116979200	Not that I don't like Anne Rice! I loved this book. My only complaint is, I didn't realize it was a series of books and now I think I've read them out of order. Outside of that, it's a great book and I couldn't put it down till I finished it!
4	1116547200	I heard about this book through a friend, and just finished the first book in this series. It is a very fun read with an interesting and different storyline. The relationship between Sookie and Bill is a bit strange at first, which is understandable under the conditions. The only thing I didn't like about this book was when people die that are close to Sookie, its not a big deal, no inner emotion or feelings are expressed in the writting. Its written for a paragraph and then Mrs. Harris moves on with the story. I found myself shaking my head and saying "What? How could you react like that?". It is a good, fast read though, and will continue reading this series.
4	1115769600	Just found Harris, after all these years. Am so glad I did. After reading other paranormal novels for a few months, this was a true delight. Can't wait to read more.Sookie Stackhoouse is feisty, sassy, and likable. And though I can't for the life of me undertand what the fascination is with Vampire boyfriends --- all that talk about cool skin, pasty white complexions, glowing in the dark stuff --- well . . . I guess Tolkien was right when he said we have to suspend disbelief and just go with the flow. In this case - a really nice flow! Fun. Light. Did I say fun?
5	1115683200	Charlaine does not disappoint her readers.While I do miss Lily Bard, Sookie sure is a lot of fun.Great story line.
3	1114387200	It took me a while to get into it; I found that I'm not that fond of Harris' writing style -- way too much minor detail for my taste. Later, however, this aspect lessened and the plot thickened.I picked this up to read something different, and it certainly was. Since I don't read a lot of mysteries, I may not be the best to comment. Despite the off-putting cover art, the characters were memorable and the plot kept my interest (once it got going). Still, I found a lot of repetition -- people repeatedly making the same stupid choices, rehashing the same ground in plot point and emotion. Even being from West Tennessee, I still get annoyed at Elvis references in books. And some elements were a bit soap-opera-ish. Such things lowered my enjoyment.  Still, I'll read the next one (and maybe more) to see how things progress, since much is left up in the air at book's end.
4	1113523200	Louisiana, home of Merlottes, a nice neighborhood bar owned by Sam Merlotte.  A "virus" is plaguing a percentage of the population and this "virus" causes some to have an extreme allergy to sunlight, silver, and wooden stakes.  Funny, but when I was growing up, we called these people "vampires".  Enter Ms. Sookie Stackhouse.  Sookie is a barmaid at Merlottes and she also has a special talent, she can read minds.  After saving a vamp from being drained of his blood, which is supposed to have special powers and is sold for high dollar, she falls in love with him and discovers she can't read his mind.  This is a great news to Sookie.  Finally she can date someone who won't insult her just by the thoughts in their heads.  Sookie, suprisingly, can't read Sam's mind either. Curious, Sam isn't a vampire, is he?  When people start dying and the vampires are being blamed, it's up to Sookie to defend the man she loves and catch the killer before he/she catches her.Ms. Harris has created a wonderful cast of characters that are original and fun.  They come alive on the page.  It is fun to watch them grow and develop right before your eyes.  There is a lot of story in the short 260 pages.  It's packed with mystery, horror, humor, and heart warming moments that will remind you of a small town and it's inhabitants.  The only problem I had with this book was I got tired of the sex between Sookie and Bill, her vampire lover.  Once Ms Harris described a scene to two, we got the idea, move on.I enjoyed the uniqueness of this book.  It will appeal to alot of people on many different levels and reading genres.  Ms Harris has a hit with this one.  So snuggle up on the couch with your favorite beverage and enjoy this one.
4	1113350400	Don't get me wrong, I loved this book. Charlaine Harris did a great job when she wrote this story. The characters, especially Sookie, are really interesting and well developed. I would have given this book five stars if I hadn't just read the Anita Blake Series by Laurell K. Hamilton. I am a vampire fan and look for almost any book that has to do with the subject, or paranormal in general. If you plan on reading this or the Anita Blake Series I would recommend this one first, only because when comparing the two I liked Hamilton's version of the paranormal better than Harris'. It is still worth the money and the time invested in it to read it. I would highly recommend this book to anyone.
4	1112054400	Once I realized the plot line of this particular series, I realized it was almost exactly like Laurell K Hamilton's Anita Blake series.  Sookie may not be a vampire executioner, but she is paranormally gifted, and torn between dating a vampire & shapeshifter, and frequently gets into dangerous situations because of her association with them.  Because of this, I wanted to hate them, but Harris does such a good job writing these books, I ended up buying all of them instead.  Don't expect originality, but do expect to enjoy every page.
5	1111363200	I absolutely loved this book!  Ms. Harris' depictions of the people and attitudes is wonderfully detailed, as are her descriptions of the geography.Dead Until Dark chronicles the rather extraordinary life of Sookie Stackhouse, a telepathic barmaid in rural Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Her unusal life takes a turn for the better, or worse, when a real vampire walks into the bar where she works.  Through a series of encounters with the vampire community, Sookie becomes entangled in a deadly web of mystery, deception, and romance.  Will her new-found undead friend be the key to her happiness or ultimate demise?Originally, I had my doubts regarding a vampire series set in the south, however, my opinions have changed.  The possibilities are wide-open for this series to have a long life full of drama, romance, and comedy.  My hat is off to Charlaine Harris for her original take on vampire and Southern fiction.
5	1109376000	I originally bought this book used in a lot set of books I bought as a group.  The artwork on the front, which seems a bit fun yet drawn for someone of a 'younger than adult age' along with the back cover which describes the book's plot as something it is not you can find yourself being a bit mislead at first notice of this book.  However inside is something completely more than you can possibly expect.The world has changed and vampires are now legally accepted and noticed as simply being people who 'have a virus'.  So a simple mind reading waitress decides she doesn't have problem with dating a vampire.  After all, he is the only man she's met who's thoughts she can not hear.  A serial murder starts killing women around town and at first it looks like a vampire is doing it.  She becomes very protective of her vampire boyfriend, and he of her when a vampire elder decides he wants her for himself.The twists and turns continue and this book can easily keep you glued to it in one sitting.  I'm so glad there are sequels to keep the story going!I must say this story really reminded me of Nicci French's books. Quite often I 'got the shivers' while I read wide-eyed and turned to the next page.This book is definitely on my recommendation list.
4	1109030400	How could anyone not adore Sookie Stackhouse? She's plain spoken, God fearin', and lives in a small parish in Louisiana with no aspirations other than to work on her tan, and make ends meet at Merlotte's as a cocktail waitress. All would be seemingly hum-drum if not for the otherworldly gift she has:clarivoyance (which has been a pain in the tookus to her)until Vampire Bill steps into her life and lights her up like the big Pabst Blue Ribbon sign.From that moment forward, this plucky heroine is entangled in a net of murderous vampires, scared-out-of-their-wits country bumpkins, inept law enforcement, and Bill's sexy boss Eric to boot.Get out your Daisy Dukes for a hilarious and thoroughly enjoyable read from Charlaine Harris. I found Sookie to be the best of sports, and this Southern Vampire Series was hard to put down!Copyright(c)Nicola Mattos
5	1107993600	But, would you want to?  Some folks might think reading another's mind would prove advantageous.  Not so for Everywoman Hero, Sookie Stackhouse.Sookie Stackhouse is what folks in her small town call 'different.' Though attractive, she doesn't go on dates.  The local males are not comfortable around her. She works in a bar as a cocktail waitress and if you think that's a fun job to have when you're psychic--think again.In general, she doesn't  have many friends---only her boss, Sam, her co-workers at the bar, and her philandering little brother Jason stick by her.She'd expected a vampire to come in the bar for a long time.  They're legal now with rights.  Vampirism is the result of a virus.  In this world, synthetic blood is available to stave off the cravings.But, the entrace of a pale-faced stranger turns her world around.  At last, someone whose mind she cannot read.Charlaine Harris creates a heroine most of us can identify and like.  Her writing is fast paced and sticks to the point.  Unlike some of the writers in the vamp genre, she paints the gore with a realistic brush but doesn't hammer it into your face.  This book and the series are definitely worth reading.
5	1106956800	This is the first book in a series by Charlaine Harris.  Once I picked this book up I couldn't put it down!  I had to finish it!  Once I finshed it I had to get the rest of the books in the series.  If you like Laurell K. Hamilton and Anne Rice, I assure you that you will enjoy this book.  I guarantee that you will be as hooked as I was, and will have to read the others.  I am always eager to read the next installment of the Sookie Stackhouse tale and I am sure that you will be too after reading "Dead Until Dark"!
5	1105142400	Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress at the local bar of a small town in Louisiana.  People in her town think she's a little nuts, but that's because Sookie has a little secret of her own.  She can read minds.  However, she doesn't like to, so she keeps a barrier up in her own head to block out the boring voices that is the minds of other people.  One night, a mysterious stranger appears at her bar.  She is instantly fascinated by his 'glow' and instantly classes him as a vampire.  However, others in her small town notice that too and they are up to no good. After saving the vampire (Bill) from a near 'draining', Sookie finds herself caught up in a life she never imagined she would have and discovers things below the surface of her normal-looking town.  Involving (of course) vampires, other supernatural, mystery, suspense, thrill, romance, and humour, Charlaine Harris creates a new, and intriguing story that I found hard to put down.
5	1104796800	Sookie Stackhouse is an attractive, telepathic barmaid from Bon Temps, a small backwater town in northern Louisiana. She has always been ashamed of her "gift," the ability to read other people's minds, because other people have always treated her as if she had a disability. What were they thinking?? The major disadvantages to her telepathy are Sookie's inability to keep the voices at bay, even though she has learned to shield herself somewhat. She has also been unable to have a relationship. How can you fall in love when you know everything your boyfriend is thinking? All in all, however, she has lead a quiet, ordinary life with her grandmother and brother Jason. The siblings were orphaned at an early age. Sookie's life is about to become exotic, Bigtime! She has always wanted to meet a vampire, since vampirism became legal a few years before the novel begins. Most vampires stick to themselves and feed without killing humans. They drink bottled synthetic blood with human supplements in limited amounts. Some even attempt to assimilate into the general population. Occasionally there are "unfortunate incidents," a euphemism for the bloody slaying of a human,  but that would mean a stake through the heart for the undead perpetrator. There are also humans who exploit vampires by draining their blood to sell on the black market, or by finding ways to use their supernatural powers for their nefarious human purposes. This vampire exploitation figures mightily in the plot.Anyway, back to the new excitement in our heroine's life. Sookie is overjoyed. (her words not mine), to discover a vampire at one of her tables in Merlotte's Bar - a tall, dark and very handsome one, if unfortunately pale. When asked his name, hereplies, "Bill." Sookie exclaims, "The vampire Bill! I thought it might be Antoine, or Basil, or Langford! Bill!" Just plain Bill is in town because he inherited a piece of land, and wants to make his home in Bon Temps and live as normal a life as possible, under his circumstances. He was alive to fight for the Confederate cause, which gives him a major "in" with the town's Descendants of the Glorious Dead Society. He is immediately attracted to the very appealing Sookie, with her all American girl looks and sweet innocence, as opposed to the more skanky women he meets in vampire society, the "fang-bangers" or vamp groupies. Sookie is not able to read Bill's thoughts, so there is blessed quiet when they are together. And they fall in love.Bill's arrival in Bon Temps coincides with the murders of several young women, all bar maids known to hang-out with vampires. These gruesome murders have a major impact on Sookie and on her relationship with Bill. I might add that the mystery is a tough one to figure out, for a change. I like to be stumped!Author Charlaine Harris's "Dead Until Dark," is a terrific romantic suspense novel - and very refreshing. The writing is excellent, as is the humor and plot. There are no unnecessary elements or ploys here. The characters are wonderful and well developed. I really like the Anita Blake Vampire series by Laurell K. Hamilton and was ambivalent about beginning Ms. Harris' Southern Vampire series. How different could the characters and plots be from each other?? Very Different!! Anita Blake is a dark, cynical lady with a darker sense of humor, (and I love her for it)! She's a big city gal. The folks/creatures who surround her, the scrapes she gets into, and out of, are of a more sophisticated nature. Sookie Stockhouse is a real sweetie, though somewhat naive, living in a small town with Louisiana Cajun ambiance. Her adventures are dark also, but there is more romance here and a lighter comedic touch. "Dead Until Dark" is Book One in the series. I had so much fun with this novel, I plan to read the others. ENJOY!!JANA
4	1099353600	If you enjoy brilliant imagination surrounded by a modern and realistic setting, you'll love this series of books from Charlaine Harris. The supernatural becomes quite natural in these laugh-out-loud stories that feature a sexy, small-town mind-reader and her new vampire "friends", (as well as a host of other outrageous characters). Each book also contains delicious eroticism as described and experienced by the heroine barmaid, Sookie Stackhouse. She finds herself in the company of many virile and handsome creatures of the night and there are times I actually envy her!Each book is an immensely enjoyable read. I highly recommend them all.
5	1099353600	I bought "Dead in Dixie" from a book club which had all three novels (Dead Until Dark, Living Dead in Dallas and Club Dead) compiled into one hardback book.  I had never read anything from this author and I bought it mainly b/c I had to fulfill my book club agreement, and I have got to say it was well worth my money. I've been a fan of the Anita Blake series for awhile now and I thought it was one of the best vampire stories that was until I read these books. Its more lighthearted and not so much focused on sex that I enjoyed the southern vampire series more. I just love Sookie Stackhouse. These books are well written and makes you wish you were Sookie, although sometimes I could have strangled her. I can't wait to read the rest of the series b/c I'm looking forward to seeing how her character developes. So BUY THIS BOOK AND READ THE WHOLE SERIES! You want be disappointed.
5	1098403200	I bought Charlaine Harris's "Dead Until Dark" to meet the $25 qualification for free shipping, and I was doubtful as to whether I'd really like the book or not. I remember reading the reviews and thinking, "Boring." I don't take any particular liking to the South, or to small-town waitresses, and the clipped, professional critiques from editors didn't spark any interest. I was surprised to find it a attention-holding, solid read!I am a vampire fan, so it was the only reason I had to buy the book. I jumped into the Laurell K. Hamilton loop a few months ago, and her vampires have gotten me hooked! Harris's vampires are more believable, more down-to-earth, maybe, but still enthralling and addictive.Her characters, like Hamilton's, are deep and well-developed. Heroine Sookie Stackhouse, though, like every heroine crosses the line from individual to stereotypical a few times. Blonde, blue-eyed, attractive, and gifted, it seems like most men in the story want to screw her. Aside from that, Sookie is very real and very loveable.The story runs at a reasonable pace--not too fast, and definitely not too slow. Sookie's encounters are detailed but not overwhelming; Harris's writing brings out clear pictures and active senses. The plot constructs something of a romance/suspense persuasion, but I guess it could be classified as a mystery. The story kept me turning pages 'til the very end!Overall, I consider my money well-spent. As a 14-year-old, I considered this book more appropriate to my vampire addiction than Hamilton's Anita Blake series. Harris didn't get carried away with the sexual encounters; they are not especially emphasized or over-detailed, but still intimate, for lack of better term. I would recommend "Dead Until Dark" to anyone with a partiality to supernatural romance; the story is a light one, a refreshing change to the usual hot and heavy style. I've already obtained the second book of the Southern Vampire series; I really hope it is as good as the first--going to read it right after this!
4	1097366400	I recently read Dead Until Dark and Living Dead in Dallas. What a fun trip. It is light hearted reading, that is impossible to take seriously. I almost fell out of my chair laughing when I encountered "Elvis" the vampire. Read it! They are good suspense that will keep you entertained.
5	1096675200	This book and series is a breath of fresh air.  After my disappointment with the LKH series, I was desperately looking for something better.  I found it with Charlaine Harris and this series.  First of all this book takes place in a great area. (Around my hometown.) Second, all the characters, human and vampire alike are real and you can identify with them.  This series has great sexy vampires and lead female character that a lot of people will be able to identify with.  Our lead in this series is a bit of an outsider which a great deal of people can relate.  I highly suggest this series.  This book in particular is great.  Keep em coming!
4	1095120000	What a fun book! I am a huge fan of Vampire stories. Laurell K. Hamilton especially. I was skeptical about this series of Charlaine Harris's because no way did i think they could compare to the Anita Blake series. Well, Dead Until Dark definitely had a different feel than any LKH book, but it was still unbelievably entertaining. The books pacing was fantastic and the characters were so lovable. I adored Sookie and her vampire, Bill. This is a book that I would definitely recommend. I look forward to continuing onto the others in the series. A keeper.
3	1093651200	Dead Until Dark is the first book in the Southern Vampire Mysteries, and the main character is Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress. She is a pretty young girl, but she is not happy. She has a disability, and people often think she is both naive and a little dumb. But Sookie is neither. She can read people's minds, and in order to keep people's thoughts out of her head, she has to put up a mental guard every day. This takes so much of her concentration that she often seems slow.One night, Sookie serves the vampire Bill a glass of red wine, and she is immediately attracted to him, as she cannot read his thoughts at all.Shortly after Sookie and Bill first meet, a murder happen in their quiet little Louisiana-town Bon Temps, where Bill is trying to mainstream, which is vampire-slang for trying to live among humans again. For reasons not to be revealed here, our heroine and our vampire gets involved in solving this murder, and the story starts to get going. Other vampires start to show up, Bill and Sookie tries to date, and Sookie also, for the first time in her life, has men running around her, finding her pretty and desirable.Halfway through the story, the characters start to do weird things, and the story get confusing. It is like the author wants to tell too much on too few pages, and it becomes a little hard to follow the storyline, there are a lot of why's and why not's. We learn about Sookie's past, and certain things in her past is unsettling, but absolutely un-neccesary for the story.But then the story seems to get onto the right track again, and the rest of the book is a funny and exciting read. It is not the best vampire-mystery ever, but it is definitely a series worth reading, and you will want to see the characters again.
4	1092355200	A friend of mine recommended this series. I am glad I gave it a whirl. Dead Until Dark is a vampire mystery set in rural Louisiana and a great introduction to Charlaine Harris's Southern Vampire series. Sookie Stackhouse is a young cocktail waitress with a "disability" that's made her self-conscious about dating. The aforementioned disability is that she can hear people's thoughts. But when she meets a sexy vampire named Bill, not only is she excited to have finally met an actual vampire, she also likes the fact that she cannot hear his thoughts. Despite some disturbing habits, associations with various creepy vampires and the fact that he's over a century old, Bill is quite a charming fellow, especially after he tells some poignant stories about his stint as a soldier during the Civil War to Sookie's grandmother. However, strange things begin to happen in the small town of Bon Temps. Several women with a penchant for vampires turn out dead. The fact that the women have vampire marks makes Bill a suspect. After all, he's admitted to having killed people... There are various twists throughout the novel.Many reviewers have compared this series with Anne Rice's vampire chronicles and Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake novels -- especially the latter one. The only similarities between Hamilton's and Harris's books are the vampires and the whodunit aspects of the stories. Also, in this book the vampires are far more benign, even the scary ones. The story in general is lighter and funnier. In fact, sometimes the author spoofs the vampire genre, making fun of stereotypes in vampire novels (like the fact that Bill has an ordinary name instead of a ridiculously exotic one). The aforementioned aspect of the story reminded me of MaryJanice Davidson's Undead series, only this one is nowhere near as zany. I must say, however, that the potential love triangle between Sookie, Bill and a shape shifter reminded me of Anita Blake. But the novels are essentially different. The sometimes satirical approach makes it great for me. I loved the whole Bubba thing! It made me laugh out loud. I am glad that the author came up with such a funny idea. All in all, comparisons with Laurell K. Hamilton and Anne Rice aside, Charlaine Harris has written a terrific book.  The series seems promising, and I'll definitely give the other installments a whirl. Highly recommended...
3	1090972800	Interesting little alternate reality tale set in rural northern Louisiana. Vampires are real and &quot;out of the coffin&quot; -- that is, no longer hiding their existence from humans. Many of them are &quot;mainstreaming&quot; themselves, living among and working with humans. They drink synthetic blood and/or subsist on animals. However, there are some who insist on the real thing, human blood. Fortunately for them, an entire subculture of humans, known as fang-bangers, has arisen, willing and eager to provide sustenance.Sookie is a guarded, closed-off young woman. She's had to be, as a result of her own odd talent and a childhood trauma. When Bill enters her life, she is at once intrigued by him, and then strongly attracted to him once she realizes she cannot hear his thoughts. She can relax and let her guard down with him as she can with no one else.But then women start dying in town -- women with a history of multiple sexual encounters with humans and vampires. Bill falls under suspicion, and so does Sookie's brother, Jason, a handsome womanizer, who a century or so earlier may have been euphemistically deemed a &quot;rake.&quot;Vampire politics come into play, along with a few other, ummm, interesting plot twists, plus a couple of mildly steamy scenes between Bill and Sookie, resulting in a fast-paced frothy way to while away an afternoon.Fun, if predictable.
4	1089504000	Well, I read this book because of a reviewer who'd supported my positive review of a Laurell K hamilton Story.It wasn't as good as promised but entertaining.If you've read &quot;Anita Blake: Vampire Hunter&quot; novels this story will seem very familiar in the way it plays out.Sookie Stackhouse, virgin telepathic barmaid, falls in love with a boring 150+ year old vamp named Bill, despite his kooky vampire friends who seem to want to kill her constantly and without reason.At the same time women in town are being strangled to death with old vampire makrs proving they're &quot;fang bangers&quot;- Vamp lovers.Sookie is most likely next and that seems prooved when her grandmother is strangled to death. Her brother is a suspect and things seem to be falling apart as people believe it's either Jason, the brother, or Bill the lover.Well, this novel has promise. I have yet to read the following ones but I will and I hope they're better.Bill is 2 dimensional, he always disappears whenever any action goes on and he has no emotions whatsoever. Sookie in contrast is hot headed and acts without thought. She's kind of selfish and self involved and every man in town is in love with her. That reminded me of Anita Blake and why on earth must these women in these novels be the subject of such blind adoration from man, vamp, and shapeshifter alike? Give me a break.Her grandmother's death is convenient, I think it's because Ms. Harris had no further use for the character, and no one seems to really grieve the woman.The writing seems hurried and more often than not the secondary characters in town are more interesting than the main players. However, it's a good premise and shows promise.I really found it impossible to like Bill and see no reason to explain why a vampire lover is better thna a human. And his relationship with Sookie is kind of sad, she's very childish and impatient with him and he's a bit of a jerk.At least Ms. Harris comes up with a thoroughly more plausible explanation for the heroine's seeming invincibility than Ms. Hamilton does with her heroine, but she makes it hard for us to love Sookie.I do reccommend this to anyone who thinks Anita Blake books are getting too silly what with Anita sleeping around so much and denying her lovers freedom. I'd also recommend it if vampire romances in general make you roll your eyes, this one is so much better thought out and interesting than those.However, if you're new to the genre start out with Sherrilyn Kenyon and the first few Laurell K hamilton books before trying Ms. Harris. You'll appreciate this book's refreshing viewpoint much more that way.
5	1088380800	I got this book because it was recommended to me and I really needed something to read while on an upcoming airplane trip.  I brought the book home and had read the entire thing before I ever got close to the airport!  I had to go buy the next two, Living Dead in Dallas and Club Dead.  I was so enthralled with the stories and with the wonderful characters (Sookie, Bill, Eric, Sam, Alcide, Pam) that I had read the other two before my airplane trip back.  I then had to go out and purchase the 4th book in the series, Dead to the World, because I had to know what happened.  I would have to say that the stories kept me so immersed that I read approximately a book a day without even realizing that the time had flown by.  I highly recommend this and the other books in the series.  You won't be disappointed!!
4	1087689600	Charlaine Harris has captured the small town atmosphere perfectly with her cast of characters.  Everyone knows everyone else's business and if it's too brutal or out of the ordinary, you do the polite thing and ignore it.  This is a marvelous fun read with romance, mystery and danger popping up on every page.  Some of the ideas in the book are predictable but the character studies and relationships are what really carry the book.  The introspection of the main character with her 'disability' of being psychic and her growing confidence throughout the book in her abilities and herself as she gains her first boyfriend and then realizes that he's not the only man that is interested in her is a fine psychological study of what a lot of people go through.  I'm looking forward to reading the next book in this series to see what other adventures and discoveries await Sookie and her town.
2	1087257600	The first book in this series did offer a little bit of a difference, a good main character with a little twist. Now, I fear, Ms Harris is going down the same ol' Vampire trail as others. That's the trail where you lose substance and sublety to sexual exploits. I mean here we are again with yet another Master Vampire who cannot resist the main character. (...) Sucking a bullet out of a Vampire with her mouth because there simply wasnt any other way for her to remove it and she has now ingested his blood and is susceptible to his influence? Oh, please. You really cant setup characters with any kind of depth and then throw those characteristcs away to suit. I read a review by someone of her next book and she used the term, the AB factor (Anita Blake). I agree and there is no way I am going down that road again. Where the heck are the good reads on this genre with depth, intrigue and a storyline without the huge advantage of being able to read minds. That just means the author can ease up on cleverness (after all, there is no clue searching when you can read all about it in the other's mind) and concentrate on what almost everyone wants to read about, right??
3	1084665600	Charlaine Harris borrows liberally from fellow writer Laurel K. Hamilton in her girl-meets-vampire novel.  However, Harris is certainly more comical than Hamilton (at times to the point of spoofing vampire fiction) as well as less interested in the macabre.  The very silly author starts off on the right foot by dubbing her blood lusting hero "The Vampire Bill."  Not Ambrose.  Not Vladimir.  Bill.  Then later she one-ups herself by introducing "The Vampire Bubba" and a were-collie.  Again, her bizarre love triangle (vampire-human woman-lycanthrope) is lifted from Hamilton's work.  The twist here is that Charlaine Harris' heroine, Sookie Stackhouse, is psychic while Hamilton's protagonist can merely raise the dead.  The author sets herself a tough task by setting her book in tiny Bon Temps, Louisiana, a town she seems to be depopulating very rapidly.  If she is going to continue the series, a busload of new characters will need to move into town or the action will have to move elsewhere.  There are at least a dozen murders in this book (counting four vampires and one pet cat), but they are largely "off-camera" so the content is generally not too violent or gruesome.  Still, conservative parents might want to screen this book first before letting their pre-teens read it since it is fairly explicit in parts.  All-in-all, Sookie is a pretty likable heroine and the book turns out to be a fun, quick-paced read for those who enjoy humorous paranormal mysteries.
3	1084665600	What this book has going for it is great gobs of Southern charm in the guise of its heroine Sookie Stackhouse, a small town Louisiana cocktail waitress who has this unfortunate gift of being able to read minds. Then she meets Bill, and can't read a thing he's thinking,which is a delight in her eyes.Her inability to read him is tied to the fact that he's a vampire, which in Sookies world is as common as any other race, creed, or national origin. They are referred to as &quot;fangs&quot; versus &quot;humans&quot;, and it's not long before she's head over heels in love with him. The problem starts when bodies begin to pile up around town, and Sookie begins to fear for her life.Sookie is a disarming and utterly charming character, and for me is what makes the book unique.Bill seems an interesting guy, but there's not much to him besides his lust/love for Sookie, but I'm imagining more will be revealed in subsequent books.Overall I found the tone of the book hard to classify; Is it a romance novel with an underworld twist, or a mystery novel with a romantic undercurrent? Either, both, I don't know. Whatever it is, it's amusing and worth reading providing you're not expecting Anne Rice.
5	1082851200	Dead Until Dark by Charlaine Harris is our introduction to Sookie Stackhouse, the Vampire Bill and the colorful town of Bon Temps, Louisiana.Sookie, a very blonde, buxom, barmaid is not your average girl in Bon Temps.  She has the ability to read other's minds.  This ability is not an asset when working in a bar.  Image if you could `hear' someone's thoughts, worries, dreams, their most intimate feelings.  How is a girl supposed to find a boyfriend in the backwater of Louisiana when she is acutely aware of all his thoughts?  Sookie has found a solution - the Vampire Bill.  Vampires where `outed' some years ago after the invention of artificial blood.  Sookie is unable to read the minds of vampires and finds great comfort in the arms of Bill.Sookie begins her adventure with a chance encounter with the Vampire Bill and the `Rat' couple, some local trailer park trash.  Things quickly escalate as Sookie faces a series of murders that - surprise, surprise - appear to have been committed by a vampire.Dead Until Dark is a hilarious adventure from start to finish.  From Sam Merlot, the bartender with secrets of his own, to Jason, Sookie's brother and all around stud-muffin with a fancy pick-up truck, all the characters are colorful and entertaining.  While Dead Until Dark is not dark, heavy, horror, it is entertaining and engaging.Many have compared the Southern Vampire series to Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series.  While both series focus on human/vampire relationship, the similarities are few.  Sookie lacks the predatory aspects of Anita Blake.  Sookie is also very nave, while no one would ever consider this of Anita Blake.  Anita is very angst driven.  In contrast, Sookie is just a nice, hard working girl who happens to have some gifts or disabilities depending on your point of view.  Dead Until Dark does share the mystery elements Laurell K. Hamilton focused on in the early Anita Blake novels.Charlaine Harris is the other of three more Sookie novels; Living Dead in Dallas, Club Dead, and Dead to the World, to be published May, 2004.  She is also the author of two popular mystery series; the Aurora Tegarden series and the Lily Bard Shakespeare series.
5	1080777600	It's a common story. Sookie Stackhouse is a small town girl, whose formal education is cut short, stranding her in a low-skill, deadend job. Although she enjoys being a coctail waitress (her flirtatious boss is a charmer), Sookie has grown bored serving the same people and reading minds filled with the same lame thoughts, and decides that meeting a vampire is just the thing to end her dulldrums.Enter Bill, handsome Civil War vet and new vampire in town.They become fast friends (and lovers) when Sookie saves his life. Of course things don't stay peaceful for long. When Sookie's friends and co-workers start turning up dead all eyes turn to Bill. Together they embark on an adventure filled with intelligence, wit and surprises enough to make Sookie long for some of that same-ole-same that she THOUGHT she'd had enough of.
3	1079568000	Dead Until Dark tells the story of the trials and tribulations of a mind reading waitress who falls for a vampire.  The most compelling aspect of this book is that, by taming the vampire element,  it does not cliche the lead vampire character.  C. Harris takes an every-day-life approach to tell a vampire related story.  It's a well written story that kept me turning the page.  I look forward to reading the rest of the series.
5	1078617600	Okay I'm a huge vampire fan. I discovered Charlaine Harris' dead series quite by accident and immediately fell in love. If you are a fan of the supernatural or romance, you will not be disappointed.  Very highly recommended!  Be sure to read this series in order.  This novel is the first in her series.  Read this one first, following with "Living Dead in Dallas" and finally "Club Dead".I almost didn't pick up this series due to the fact it was termed "lighthearted read," and I'm not a big fan of the newest craze of "comedy vampire books" on the market. I like my vampires with a little more depth and mystery.  This series gives you that.The heroine is Sookie, a southern gal in a small town.  Sookie likes her simple life.  She's a waitress and has no complaints except maybe the fact that she can read minds.  Now the only problem with reading minds is that she pretty much knows just what most of the men who want to date her are thinking.  And the men she has dated so far are not the deepest thinkers.Now enter new into town the vampire Bill.  Sookie has been waiting to meet one of the new vampires that came out "of the closet" once bottled blood came on the market.  She has been longing to meet one of these vampires but being in a small town Bill is the first.  She's already fascinated with Bill and then on top of that Sookie finds out she can't read Bills mind.  The story goes on from there.  I don't want to give too much away.  Let's just say "its wonderful."I must make a comment on the comparison of this series with the Anita Blake series.  I have read quite a few disgruntled reviews comparing this series with Laurell Hamilton's and terming this a "copycat series."  I disagree completely!  I am also a big Anita Blake fan (but I must be truthful - only the first four and from there it went downhill).  You can say in comparison that the worlds in both storylines accept the fact of vampires and werewolves and other otherworldly creatures, but this series IS NOT the same, and stands on its own.  This series truly adds a southern charm all its own.  I enjoyed Sookie the down home girl with all of her Southern charm!  This is no way comapares to the Anite Blake series which is pretty "dark and depressing."This book and the entire series gets 5 stars.
2	1078185600	I picked up these books on recommendation from this site and people who had read books by Laurell K. Hamilton.  After finishing the first book, I found myself disappointed.I feel that the storyline jumped around a lot with no good reason.  Many times it felt like Sookie was making decisions based on the fact that the writer had to keep the story going instead of what Sookie might actually do.  Additionally, perhaps that is what Sookie would do and the character development in the book was the thing that was lacking.The writing style was difficult to read at times, especially during the dialogue.Overall the book was ok: the story was ok, the writing was ok and the characters were ok.  Unfortunately I was expecting something better than ok.
3	1077235200	The first book in the Southern Vampire series by Charlaine Harris is a fun, quick, easy read.  Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress in a small Louisiana town, is pretty and blonde and not dumb at all.  She's perfectly normal, except for one small quirk.  She has telepathy.  This makes it difficult to stay sane, and impossible to get dates.  Until she meets Bill, a tall, dark and handsome man whose mind she absolutely can't read.  He's perfectly normal, except for one small quirk.  He's a vampire.Some things are just never easy.And so Sookie's adventures begin.  Over the course of the book, she begins dating and perhaps loving Bill, adjusts to small town prejudice, and even becomes involved in a freakish murder mystery.  Someone is killing 'fang bangers', women who sleep with vampires and allow themselves to become willing prey.  Since Sookie is currently involved with a creature of the night, she's naturally drawn into the grisly proceedings.  And then there's her boss, a sweet sandy haired man who happens to be a lycanthrope and smitten with her.  Her life just gets progressively weirder.First and foremost, be prepared, if you are a Laurell K Hamilton fan or are acquainted with her writings, for a very watered-down version of Anita Blake, vampire hunter.  We've got the supernaturally gifted heroine, the human-vampire-werewolf love triangle, the undead as legal citizens, and the occult murder mystery.  Sookie, of course, is no Anita, neither as complex nor as strong as Hamilton's feisty protagonist.  While this makes her proceedings more realistic and a little more accessible, you just won't fall in love with her like you would with Anita.  She actually becomes a bit trying and boring near the end, though you'll still want to finish the book.This book has its enjoyable elements.  We find out that there is a black market for vampire blood, werewolves can become little collie dogs, and an undead Elvis Presley, who now calls himself Bubba, is Sookie's bodyguard.  While nothing is truly exciting and original (we've seen most of it in the Anita Blake series), it is fun, and a good, light read for when Hamilton's books get a little melodramatic.  If you're unacquainted with Hamilton, you'll probably be bowled over by the story's inventiveness.  If you read Anita, you won't find anything new, but you'll at least get a homier version of the tales you know and love.This gets three stars for combining charming style and mostly sturdy writing with a story that has been done before.
5	1076630400	This author has a VERY interesting imagination.  This isn't a typical vampire/horror novel.  If you're looking for Anne Rice, you won't find it here.  What you WILL find, is a very hilarious story that happens to include vampires.  I am a huge fan of dark, scary books about vampires (including Anne Rice's), but I also really enjoyed this change of pace.  Some things were so completely goofy but the book was fun anyway.  If you appreciate dark humor, grab this book right away!
4	1076544000	I give it to Harris, she has orginality, well a little bit.  Sookie is expecting the vampire to be an "Antoine" "Francois" and all those lovely french names, who could ever think u can also have a Vampire Bill? Harris continued to create a heroine who is a cry-baby, a little bit nutty, and a weakling instead of the usual Buffy/Anita Blake "tough-as-nails-vampire slayers".  I'm not against this part; it's very refreshing to have a more realistic woman who's not afraid to show her emotions or accept help from the opposite sex.  But she still kept on with the typical love triangle with a shapeshifter, two vampires, and probably a human on the coming series just like the other vampire series out there.  Continuing with the imitations, Sookie is gifted, not just an ordinary human, no-no, that wouldn't be interesting and I have a huge hunch her powers will grow immensely on the 3rd book or 4th book.  Nevertheless, I like how she write, it's light, not so heavy and emotional with a faint attempt on humour.  It's not laugh out loud funny but she has potential.  The mystery is a put-down.  You'll figure out the whole thing half-way through the book.  BUt I know she'll improve on it.  I'll give this 3 stars because Ive read better ones, but I encourage everybody to start the series.  I know the characters and the author will become dear to me as I continue to read and learn about their emotions, principles, conflicts, etc..
1	1074211200	It might have been a mistake to read this book after reading the Anita Blake series.  I bought all three Charlaine Harris books and read them all in a row.  I was more than a little disappointed.  Some people may have found the books amusing....I didn't.  I enjoy a good vampire book and found these books silly and well.........boring.  Pretty much a waste of time.  Sorry.
5	1072828800	Okay, if you are a Laurell K. Hamilton fan, you should like this book.  It is very different from Laurell but it is still a similar plot &amp; very well written.  I went thru the whole series in a couple of days, I couldn't put it down.  Sookie rocks!
4	1070236800	If you like a fun spin on the whole vampire genre (and a little romance) set in the South no less - you'll like this book.There will be the inevitable comparisons between the Southern Vampire stories and Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series (of which I am a fan), but they are different. Yes, the main character is female and she does end up in a relationship with a vampire. However, this whole type of theme is not original to Hamilton and Ms. Harris puts her own spin to the world she creates.First off Ms Harris knows her "South" and all the wacky characters that live there - whether they are human or vampire. These stories, though they have they do have violence and a few nice sex scenes (not as graphic or as violent as Hamilton's series) are not as dark and demented as many books out there.Sookie Stackhouse has a "disability" - she can read minds. Which instead of making her some sort of comic book hero, is really a  problem for her.Humor! These books can be very funny. Ms Harris has a great wit which just adds to her storytelling.  This is a quick read and fun. Buy it, you'll probably want to read it a few times!
5	1067299200	is a waitress at a bar in a small town in Louisiana.  She is thought of as crazy, mostly because she sticks to herself because of the fact that she can read minds.  Than one day a man enters the bar and she can't read his thoughts.He's tall, dark, handsome and very, very dead.  He's a vampire and she is drawn to him.  His silent mind draws her and she finds herself starting an adventure, an adventure that seem becomes a nightmare as murder becomes part of the plot.  In fact a few murders are mixed into the story and soon Sookie wonders if having a vampire as her boyfriend is such a good idea.Funny as Hell - New Orleans has become the vampires' Mecca!  A few sex scenes and the mystery of who the killer IS was NOT easy to solve.  Through-out the story I kept thinking, 'He did it-no, wait-she did it-no wait' but in the end I was surprised.
4	1065657600	This vampire series is a great counterpoint to the Anita Blake stories. Much as I love Laurell Hamilton's dark and vivid imagination, I prefer Charlaine Harris' lighter touch. But make no mistake, there is violence and horror present in these pages.Sookie Stackhouse is no kick-butt herione but rather more down home kind of gal, funny and sweet not quite girl-next-door burdened with an unusual telepathic ability. All the supporting characters are interesting and Bill the vampire is mysterious, strong and vulnerable. I bought the first two volumes and look forward to future installments!Recommend for 16 and up for language, sex & violence.
5	1064534400	Sookie Stackhouse has what she calls a "disability." She's a telepath. Now reading minds sounds like it might be a good thing, but as she points out it sort of gets in the way of relationships, sexual relationships in particularly. It's hard for her to have sex and enjoy it when she knows the man she's with thinks her breasts are too small or maybe he's thinking of someone else. Besides, other people's thoughts bombarding her all day drive her crazy. She works as a waitress in a bar and comes in contact with many people on a daily basis. So for her own sanity, and because she thinks it rude to listen in, she's learn to block out the noise from the minds of others. Then Bill comes into her life. He's the perfect boyfriend because she can't read his thoughts at all. That's because he has a disability of his own. He's dead. He's a vampire. Vampires have recently come out of the closet so to speak and exposed their existence to the world. All of this came about because of the creation of synthetic blood, making it possible for them to exist without preying on unwilling humans. They are the new minority and now wish to coexist with humans. Of course, the vampires-like any minority-have those who hate them. But they also have those who admire and adore them as well. These people are called fang-bangers. Three female fang-bangers suddenly turn up dead, murdered, and the vampires are quickly blamed. Fear fuels the fires of hatred and violence erupts between the humans and the undead. This puts Bill at risk. Also, Sookie fears that she's next on the murderer's list since she has a vampire boyfriend. So, with Bill's help, she uses her "disability" to solve the mystery, and in the process she puts her own life on the line.This is an extraordinary and original book; full of charm and wit, capturing small-town America to a T. Harris blends together several genres-horror, mystery, and a bit of Gothic romance-with ease and aplomb. She has a straight forward, just between you and me kind of style that's fun and easy to read. One minute she's making you laugh, the next she's sending chills along your spine, and the next she's got you wondering who done it. This book will entertain and keep you guessing until the very end. I highly recommend it.
5	1064016000	This is an absolutely wonderful book. Funny, entertaining, and sexy you name it, it happened. I'm always looking for twists to the vampire story. I've found it in Charlaine Harris' book. You can definately see the influences from recent movies and books, but that did not ruin the book, only enhanced it more. Sookie, a quirky telepath, finds her dream man... the Vampire Bill! LOL, what a name for a vamp. I loved the blend of characters, I can't wait to see what they will be getting up to in future books. I'm definately going to purchase the other two books in this series. IMO, this book is well worth your time and money. Buy it!
4	1063065600	I thought this was a children's book until I starting reading the book then I was like...oh it's not for anyone under eighteen. It was the cover. So Sookie,meets and saves the life of Bill the Vampire. Bill is in trouble and Sookie knows that because she can read minds. Sam is a very interesting person. And so will many of the other things that go bump in the night  be as you read the other two books. All three books were readable but I like this the best, it was my first.
3	1062460800	What's a southern woman with telepathic abilities to do? It's hard to have some romance when your date is thinking random thoughts about everything but romance. But things begin to change for Sookie Stackhouse when a real live (more or less) vampire walks into her bar, and wonder of wonders, she can't read a single thought from him. He's a local boy, and returning to his roots now that vampires have legal status. Knowing her customers, she gets suspicious when a particularly unsavory couple walk out with Bill the vampire. She follows and ends up rescuing him. He's not exactly thankful for being rescued, but Sookie figures it's as good a way to meet him as any. As Sookie and Bill get closer together, plots thicken as several co-workers of Sookie are murdered. Sookie has to get involved in solving the murders for her own peace of mind, because the clues are pointing to the possibility that Bill, now the vampire boyfriend, is the killer. This is the first book of a new series. But with some new twists. It's set in the South, with all those prejudices and attitudes. There's Bill and the vampire culture to be explored. There are mysteries that need to be solved. They have the feeling of a cozy mystery, but with more violence and action, more of a bite, one might say. The best thing about the book (and its successors) are the characters. They all feel real, with real feelings and weaknesses, and act true to their characteristics. And there's some nice sidebar touches, like when the Descendents of the Glorious Dead ask Bill to talk to them about his experiences in the Civil War. I'll look forward to more adventures of Sookie and Bill.
5	1061942400	Sookie Stackhouse was a small-time cocktail waitress in small-town Louisiana. She kept to herself and seldom went on dates due to what she called her "disability". Sookie could read minds. She had to constantly keep up a mental, steel wall or go insane from all the chatter. Then a man named Bill came along. Sookie knew he was her type of guy because she could not hear a word he was thinking!Bill was a vampire with a bad reputation. Vampires had recently become legally recognized as citizens and bars were stocking up on synthetic blood. Bill had decided to "mainstream" (live among mortals in harmony). However, a serial killer was in town. The victims were all mortal females who had consorted with vampires and Sookie was on the killer's list.***** Now this is a very interesting type of book! This story blends fantasy, mystery, and romance to create a lethal combinations. The author has added a variety of colorful characters, both "fang" and "human", into the mix that will enthrall the readers. The story can stand alone. It has closure. However, upon finishing the book I was searching stores in hope that this was one of a series. IT IS! This book came out in the year 2001. The second came out in 2002 titled "LIVING DEAD IN DALLAS". The third came out in 2003 titled " CLUB DEAD". Perhaps this author has made new gentry in books. ***** Reviewed by Detra Fitch
1	1059955200	Where do I even begin to rant about this novel??Harris' characters are terribly one dimensional, the plot was vey weak, and the &quot;Southern Charm&quot; in this novel was thick enough to choke a horse.  Harris also took a few liberties with her story details that appear to me to be stolen from Laurell K. Hamilton's work.I really disliked this novel all the way around. I had trouble just finishing it.  I would not recommend this novel to another reader.
4	1059609600	A trusted recommendation put me on the path to this book, which turned out to be quite good. Harris takes the classic vampire mythos and puts a clever spin on it, "outing" the creatures of the night to the world at large. Seeing a vampire in Harris' world is like encountering a member of any other minority group -- which makes for some interesting paralells in how anti-vampiric sentiments echo racism. The trouble is, sometimes the anti-vampirism is justified -- there are good vampires, yes, but there are still just as many who see humans as cattle. Achieving the balance between the different temperaments of the undead is not easy, but Harris handles it well.Sookie Stackhouse, our improbably named heroine, is a great viewpoint character, although her "disability" seems a bit convenient. I hope that future volumes in the series delve into it a bit further, possibly putting forth an explanation of where her power comes from.Of course, the fact that I'm contemplating future volumes is the best praise I can give this book. I enjoyed it enough to keep reading. Looking forward to book 2.
5	1059350400	I have read all of Charlaine Harris' Lily Bard and Aurora Teagarden  mysteries and was excited that she started a new series.  I loved this book, couldn't put it down, and am anxious to read the rest of the series.I have only one quibble.  After the first two murders, an attempt was made on Sookie (the heroine).  However, she would return to her home alone every night, with no police protection.  She knew the murderer was most likely coming back for another try at her, but no one really seemed to care enough to do anything about it except for her boyfriend.  Can we really believe her best friend would ask her to  babysit her two young children at Sookie's home late at night, knowing the murderer was out there trying to get Sookie?  That is just too much of a stretch.
5	1058832000	Harris writes the story of a very believable heroine with a very annoying disability. She can read people's minds. Sookie has long dreamt of meeting a vampire but is taken by surprise when she does and ends up saving his life.This book is very enjoyable and fast paced -- A perfect summer read. It's light and entertaining.
4	1057276800	Dead Until Dark is the first of the Southern Vampire series that introduces Sookie Stackhouse, a sexy cocktail waitress from Louisiana. Sookie is rather quiet, shy, and does her best to live with her disability; being able to read people's minds; i.e. a telepath. Early on in the book, a stranger, Bill, shows up and she is intrigued that she cannot read his mind, and for a good reason; Bill is a Vampire.Vampires now have a certain status in many parts of the world and are free to live and come and go as they please. Japan has even developed a synthetic blood for them to drink and is stocked in many establishments, including the one where Sookie works. Bill and Sookie have a natural attraction to one another and a romance begins to emerge. At first glance this may sound somewhat corny but that is not the case at all. It is a highly imaginative story with a very nice blend of action, mystery, comedy, and romance. Sookie and Bill are both very likable, as are many of the other main characters in the novel. Charlaine Harris does a great job at developing their backgrounds and the result is a solid foundation on which to base future stories. This book is clever, imaginative, and by all means, fun.
5	1056931200	Sookie Stackhouse isn't a fang-banger, but when a handsome vampire walks into the bar where she works, she can't help the attraction. Especially since his is one of the few minds she can't read. Since she can't help reading minds when she touches someone, sex hasn't been easy before--but with the vampire, anything is possible. Of course, a vampire is different and Sookie isn't sure she can deal with the amoral violence that Bill the Vampire deals out.When vampire lovers start to die in Bon Temps, Louisiana, Sookie wonders whether she'll be the next victim. Her mind-reading ability doesn't point to anyone and the police have settled on her brother. Bill is certainly willing to defend her, but he's only available after dark, and he brings his own problems, including a hungry senior vampire named Eric who insists on coming into Sookie's life. Somehow, Sookie has to get to the bottom of the killings, save her brother from the police, end the increasing hatred between vampires and the human, and manage to stay alive at the same time.Author Charlaine Harris combines smooth and compelling writing with exciting world-building and a well-constructed mystery. There are plenty of red herrings, some exciting action scenes, and a thoughtful look at the way people deal with new and scary things (like vampires). DEAD UNTIL DARK is an enjoyable treat.
5	1055289600	You will just love this series.  It has everything - romance, vampires, ESP, vampires, Elv--urh--Bubba, vampires, and fun.  Did I mention vampires?Imagine that the development of synthetic blood allows the vampires that we KNOW are all around us to come out of the closet and play...Then imagine that it could be funny.This is  a unique series and all 3 books so far are a delight.  I can hardly wait to see what happens next to Sookie and friends (?).Harris shows us the rural South into a whole new light!
5	1052870400	I'M NOT FUSSING OR ANYTHING BUT YA KNOW, THERE ARE OTHER PLACES IN LOUISIANA BESIDES ANNE RICE'S BELOVED NEW ORLEANS.  THERE AREN'T THAT MANY BOOKS ABOUT NORTH LA, SO MANY MAY NOT EVEN THINK THAT IT EXISTS.  THAT ASIDE I DID ENJOY THIS BOOK AND ENJOYED IT EVEN MORE BECAUSE MOST OF THE TIME I KNEW EXACTLY WHERE THESE PEOPLE WERE.  MS. HARRIS IS A VERY GOOD AUTHOR.  HER LEAD CHARACTER SOOKIE IS FUNNY AND SWEET,  SHE HAS A &quot;DISABLITY&quot; IN THAT SHE CAN READ MINDS.  I LIKE THAT SHE WAS NEITHER THE BRAIN OR JOCK TYPE AND ACTED LIKE A REGULAR PERSON MOST OF THE TIME.  BILL IS A FORMER RESIDENT OF THE AREA,(FORMER IN MORE WAYS THAN ONE) WHO MOVES BACK TO TOWN AND BECOMES INVOLVED W/SOOKIE. CATCH IS BILL IS A VAMPIRE.  VAMPIRES HAVE COME OUT OF THE COFFIN AS SOOKIE PUTS IT AND THEY SURVIVE MOSTLY ON SYNTHETIC BLOOD AND VOLUNTEERS, THAT'S THE P.R. THEY PUT OUT ANYWAY.  MANY OF THE OTHER VAMPIRES ARE MORE UH...VAMPIRE-LIKE.  THEY ARE POWERFUL BEINGS THAT THINK HUMANS ARE MEAT FOR THEIR TABLE.  I LIKE THIS BOOK AND ALL ITS WEIRD CHARACTERS HUMAN VAMPIRE AND WHATEVER ELSE.  I AM BUYING THE NEXT 2 IN THE SERIES.
4	1052611200	I bought this book in conjuction with Laurell K. Hamiton's book.  I read the book and saw the similarities.  I sttil was interested in the story line and enjoyed reading the novel.  I would definitely read the next novel because I am intrigued with what goes on next.  Definitely a keeper and I would recommend to my other vampire reading novel friends!  Also, I liked the byplay with the waitress and the glorious mainstreaming vampire.
5	1050624000	Have you ever wanted to know what it would be like to be telepathic?  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to have a vampire as your friend?  Well, in Dead Until Dark, you get the chance to learn what it would really be like.  Charlaine Harris, the author, creates an atmosphere that will make you want to read Dead Until Dark many times.Our story begins with Sookie, the main character, who is a waitress at a local tavern.  While she is making her last rounds of her tables, in walks a vampire.  Sookie knows it's a vampire because of her telepathic powers.  She goes up to him ask what he would like to drink.  He asks for synthetic blood (blood that the Japanese created for the vampires to live on), but Sookie did not have any on hand.  After Sookie gets the vampire a glass of wine she notices that some people have moved to his table.  These people are drug dealers and have been in jail once.  Sookie reads their minds and finds a horrible thing.  The people leave with the vampire and go out side the bar.  Knowing what will happen, Sookie borrows her brother's chains and heads outside.  Soon she is in a battle for her survival and the vampire's.  Luckily, they both survive and Sookie learns that the vampires name is Bill. A few days later, Sookie is walking to her car and is attacked by the people that were hurting Bill.  Bill then comes to save her and kills the people attacking her.  After that Bill comes to visit Sookie and her Grandmother about the Civil War, because he was made a vampire at the end of the war.  Soon after, there is a murder in the town and no one knows why.  Many people think vampires caused the murder but other facts point to other things.  Sookie then meets some of Bills friends and saves them from a deadly virus.  Bill is asked by Sookie's Grandmother to speak to her group of friends about the War.  After the meeting, Sookie comes and finds the house very quite.  She looks around the house and finds her Grandmother dead on the ground.  Heart broken and scared, she and Bill spend more time together.  Many weeks after this, another murder happens and Sookie is the one to find the dead body.  Sookie starts to feel she might be the next to be murdered, because each one of the murdered people did things with vampires.  With many more shocking happenings, Sookie and Bill soon learn all about who murdered the people.This book is very suspenseful.  The books genre is fantasy because of the vampires and telepathic powers involved.  I would suggest this book for people age 14 and up because there might be parts that a younger kid may not understand.  This book is strongly written and very creative. Charlaine Harris is one of the best authors I have ever read anything from.  Charlaine Harris is very good in giving details about the main character.  She has a sequel to this book called Living Dead In Dallas.  After reading all her books, you will probably want to read them again.
5	1050537600	Reading Charlaine Harris' dialogue is like talking with one of my cousins. :-) Sookie Stackhouse, a girl with a &quot;disability&quot;, finds herself rescuing a new neighbor, Vampire Bill. Ms. Harris has built wonderful characters.  You want to get to know them better, particularly &quot;Bubba&quot;.
5	1049673600	I really, really loved this book. It gathered dust on my bookshelf for a few weeks until last night I picked it up and started reading -- and couldn't put it down. I started reading merely because I have a cold that =won't go away= and couldn't sleep -- and wound up staying up until the sun started to rise, pouring over the pages and plotline -- hopelessly hooked.'Dead Until Dark' is a very quick and easy read -- both interesting and possessed of a natural flow of words and description. I've just ordered 'Living Dead In Dallas' and can't wait to devour that book as well -- I'm also a fan of Laurell K. Hamilton's 'Anita Blake' series, and while these books have a somewhat different tone they're both very appealing.
4	1049068800	Dead Until Dark isn't your average vampire book. It's pure fun!Sookie Stackhouse finds herself drawn into a world of vampires because of her &quot;curse,&quot; telepathy. Harris writes Sookie skillfully as a smalltown girl with a talent for getting into trouble. I found myself laughing so hard at times that I had to put the book down, but it still contained the perfect amount of action to keep the reader involved. The characters are fun and believable, the storyline is fun and fast-paced, the setting is fun... the pattern should be obvious here. Anyone who likes horror, mystery, or fantasy novels will love Dead Until Dark.
5	1048982400	This lady will tickle your funny bone.  Yet keep up the nail biting at the same time.  A definite keeper.
5	1047427200	Charlaine Harris is one of those rare writers who neither takes herself too seriously nor misses a beat in her writing to remind you of that fact. The title should give you a hint. And yet this is an engrosing mystery with a cool twist. Her protaganist, Sookie Stackhouse is an interesting and enchanting blend of dreamer and down to earth practicalatist (is that a word?). She has an unusual gift she doesn't want that leads her on an interesting journey, nonetheless. One of few books that bares rereading for me.
5	1047254400	I had been recommended this book several times and ignored it because I read a funky review at one time.  It was wrong!This book is great!  It lays a good solid foundation and starts a new vampire series.  If you liked Tanya Huff's 'Blood" series and early Anita Blakes' you will really like this one.Sookie is a waitress in a bar with the ability to see what people are thinking.  She has always had this ability and has learned how to block it.  Due to this she has never had a relationship, I wont tell you why, but it is pretty humorous.  Then one night Bill, a vampire walks into the bar she works at.  She discovers that she can not read a single thought.  A  big attraction in itself.They end up in a relationship and he assists her with his skills as they try to find out who is killing waitresses.  This is very well done.  She is a beleivable heroine who stands up for herself and also still manage to be feminine with out being helpless.I really enjoyed it.  I would recommend buying Living Dead in Dallas with it as well, because you will not be able to wait for the second one.  Also book 3 comes out in May '03.  Get to it before you fall behind!
5	1046304000	Sookie Stackhouse is a bar waitress with a disability, she can read minds. Telepathic, Sookie has never been able to embroil herself in relationships--how could she when she would know what is going on in her partners mind. So it is a wonderful relief when Vampire Bill walks into her bar. For once she can relax and unshield, be herself, for she cannot pick up anything from Bill.Thus starts a unique relationship between Sookie and Bill Compton. Set in contemporary times, this novel proposes the what if; what if vampires are not only very real, but granted status as citizens and can mainstream into society? What sort of implications and backlash would that bring?As newly minted citizens, the vampires are treated with equal parts disdain, fear, curiosity and outrage. Sookie and Bill attempt to make their relationship work, but it is pushed to the limits when the persons closest to Sookie find themselves in harm's way. Will Sookie and Bill be able to discover who is responsible for the grisly murders occuring, and prevent her brother from being named as suspect #1?
4	1045440000	I really liked the plot of this book. I saw it while searching for something for a book report. Yes I'm 14 years old, and I picked this book up. I wish though they would have said something about their being sexual themes. I happened to be on a page with that, I didn't know it had it in it, and my teacher read it from over my shoulder. I had to explain that I hadn't ever read the book and that I didn't know it had that in it. Very good plot and everything but it needs something that says, for MATURE AUDIENCES!!!
4	1044835200	This is lighter fair than some similar books out there, but a great read.  Not the slash and attack type and has a bit of romance, but very enjoyable!
5	1043280000	A couple of reviews call this series 'Laurell Hamilton meets Evanovich' and there is merit in that. You are likely to enjoy this book if you like either or both.  But this book isn't quite as funny as Evanovitch, for whom a new star score should be made and which I describe as 'pants wetting funny.' Sookie never arrests anyone in a feathered chicken suit with a mustard gun, but it certainly does have some of the endearing quality of the 'how did I get into this'  of Stephanie Plum.  It doesn't have the depths of scary horror of Linda Hamilton, which can be a plus if you can't handle major horror.  Although it is a very funny book with amusing episodes as well as mystery and romance, it is hard to pin down how it comes about.  Some of it is just Sookie's matter of fact attitude in the face of the bizzareness that surrounds her life after ending up with a vampire boyfriend.  It is crazy to someone else, but the author is able to show how from Sookie's point of view with her disability of being forced to hear human minds, that in fact, its simply logical.  And that I think is some of the charm of the book (and its sequal, Dead in Dallas)  where you see-saw between your viewpoint and Sookie's and the author is very good at reminding you why it does make sense to Sookie without being boring about it.  Bill her vampire boyfriend remains a mystery as well as he is the one mind she can't read.  He SEEMS to care for her, but its the reverse of many 'romantic' books where you know the other side, here the boyfriend is the one mind you never really know of.  Another thing I particularily like is attention to the characteristics of the secondary characters and happily, you see many of them in the sequel.  But mostly you get to know and like Sookie more as time goes on, though 'only' a barmaid she is a gold star winner at good hearted spunky, down to earth practicality and how to make the best of a bad lot.  And unlike either Stephanie Plum or Anita Blake, Sookie and Bill are always TRYING to stay OUT of trouble.  So you have chuckles when over and over, they end up 'dead' in it again.  The mystery in it more then dilutes the romantic angle for those of us bored by 'straight romance' readers.  This is a rare four way crossover of mystery, horror, romance, and comedy.
4	1042502400	How can a vampire novel fail with so many comic touches?  You may, like me, be very tired of Vampire novels.  Don't worry.  The author just has so much fun imagining a vampire in the 21st century, it's irrisistable!  The Japanese have invented synthetic blood, which brings the vampires out of the woodwork, theoretically because they now have alternatives to sucking humans dry for nourishment.  Now we have vampires "mainstreaming" into daily (excuse me, nightly) life.  And we have Sookie Stackhouse, a telepathic waitress in Louisianna, falling in love with Bill.Bill the Vampire.The book is just pure entertainment.  And you can trust Charlaine Harris to creat a strong, competent heroine.  No wimps for her!  Sookie is almost perfect.  Yes, I might wish she wasn't so naive, but have every confidence that she'll learn. Bill the Vampire is fun to read just to see what 21st century accoutrement he'll come up with next.  And a whole host of quirky, sometimes supernatural, characters fleshes it all out.The reason the book gets only 4 stars?  It's odd, because usually Harris writes better than this, but the dialogue feels very stiff sometimes. Considering the deep south setting of the novel, it's very noticable.  But it's minor, so it's only worth a star.If you are entertained by a fast paced, smart and original story, you'll like "Dead Until Dark."
5	1042329600	I happen to be a big vampire story fan but I have a hard time finding vampire stories I like. Since I am a big Laurell Hamilton fan, you can guess the type of stories I prefer. Well, I am not sure how, but something on Amaaon directed me to this author, and I LOVE her. The story was fun, interesting, new twist on the vampire lore and all around a good mystery. I kept going back and forth with my suspects, and although the culprit turned out to be someone I had on my list, I really enjoyed the journey. I have just started the next book in this series, but I am sure I will enjoy it, and look forward to more Sookie books.
5	1041465600	This series is basically Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series (quirky characters, young harmless looking female, comedy) meets Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series (vampires living with the public, psychics, lycanthropes, heroine sleeping with vampire, and desirable to other non-humans) - so you have all the fantastical elements of Anita Blake's world, but not that complicated/scary yet, and the lovable heroine, zany plots, and light-hearted comedy of Stephanie Plum's world.If you like either series, and are just waiting for the next books to come out, read the Southern Vampire Series.  It's good too.
5	1040169600	I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!I read it in one sitting, same is to be said about her other book "Living Dead in Dallas". Charlaine is a wonderful writer, she is quick with the wit and not overly detailed and has a bit of romance too.Cant wait for the next one. Wish she could write them as fast as I read them.
5	1039996800	I was looking for something vaguely Anita Blake like and I found it in book 1 of the Southern Vampire series. This book revolves around Sookie Stackhouse, a mind reading waitress and her boyfriend, Bill the vampire. This is much more than just a romance novel though. There's murder afoot! Girls are being killed and Sookie's ho brother is the prime suspect.I like this series a lot. Sookie's a fun character and there's enough interesting characters to keep this series going for a long time. There's a bit more emphasis on romance then there is on action but that works well for this series. I finished this book at work and I wanted the next one so bad I left work early and drove in scary traffic to get it. I had 2 almost accidents but it was so worth it.
5	1038960000	The cover art had me interested enough to pick up this book last year and read the back cover.  The synopsis had me instantly running to the counter to purchase!  I have always loved the whole mystery of vampire lore and my husbands' name is Bill...the fact that Sookie can read minds-but not vampires was another interesting element to the story.  It's not Anne Rice. It's not complicated and isn't stuffy.  It's a great fun read and like nothing I had read before, so I really hoped for a sequel.  I've obviously been out of the loop, since #2's been out for a while!  I will be sure to get it!
1	1038873600	First let me be clear that I'm giving this book 1 star because I didn't like the subject matter.  It has nothing to do with the author's writing.  She tells the story from the view of our heroine, Sookie Stackhouse.  The writing is witty with lots of humorous insights into Sookie's mind.  Sookie is a cocktail waitress who can read people's thoughts and because of that is thought of by most folks as strange or in some cases a little crazy.  She becomes the boyfriend of Bill, the vampire.  Ms. Harris does a superb job of capturing the feel of a small southern town, and that's precisely why I didn't like the book.Now I like vampire novels, I've read almost everything that Anne Rice has written, Jeanne Kalogridis writes an entertaining vampire novel, and there's nothing wrong with the original Bram Stoker's "Dracula".  But, I like my vampires a little more Gothic or worldly.  That's why I couldn't finish this book.  It's set in the small town, rural, not particularly sophisticated, nigh on to poor south.  No matter how well written the novel is, I just don't want to read about these people.  And Ms. Harris does an excellent job of describing that small townness.  Sookie is so like the "strange" girl that every small town seems to have.  The only difference is that Sookie is rather attractive.  In real life, they're usually plain.  There's the grandmother who belongs to some club or another that's based on being descended form a member of some group.  Reminds me of my husband's aunt who's been trying for at least 20 years to get proof so she can join the Daughters of the American Revolution.  Sookie's brother reminds me a little too much of a cousin I have that lives not too far from where this little work of fiction takes place.  Heck even the vampire has a feeling of being "small town" with a name of Bill.  Could we at least go for William?My star ratings:One star - couldn't finish the bookTwo stars - read the book, but did a lot of skipping or scanning.  Wouldn't add the book to my permanent collection or search out other books by the authorThree stars - enjoyable read.  Wouldn't add the book to my permanent collection.  Would judge other books by the author individually.Four stars - Liked the book.  Would keep the book or would look for others by the same author.Five start - One of my all time favorites.  Will get a copy in hardback to keep and will actively search out others by the same author.
2	1037750400	The concept of the novel had potential however; I just didn't find the characters to be very credible.  For example, the reader learns immediately that Sookie (the main character) has a &quot;disability&quot;; she is able to &quot;hear&quot; the thoughts of others.  She has had this disablilty her whole life and, over time, has learned to block some of the &quot;noise&quot; out.  We also find out that Sookie had a very sad childhood.  She lost both of her parents when she was young and she was molested by a family member.Nonetheless, Sookie comes accross as a naive, trusting, and optimistic person.  I just think that someone with her life experience would be more cynical and disillusioned.  In my opinion, the story would have been more believable if the main character had a darker outlook on the world.  She was just too darn nice!
2	1037750400	The concept of the novel had potential however; I just didn't find the characters to be very credible.  For example, the reader learns immediately that Sookie (the main character) has a &quot;disability&quot;; she is able to &quot;hear&quot; the thoughts of others.  She has had this disablilty her whole life and, over time, has learned to block some of the &quot;noise&quot; out.  We also find out that Sookie had a very sad childhood.  She lost both of her parents when she was young and she was molested by a family member.Nonetheless, Sookie comes accross as a naive, trusting, and optimistic person.  I just think that someone with her life experience would be more cynical and disillusioned.  In my opinion, the story would have been more believable if the main character had a darker outlook on the world.  She was just too darn nice!
4	1037059200	I am an avid reader and when I ran out of my usual fare of Sci Fi, fantasy and Laurell K. Hamilton (people can only write so fast, you know), I went looking for something new to read. Out of all the other stuff out there I decided that Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse sounded least boring and bought her two books. One thing I have to say first to anyone who does the same. Charlaine Harris is NOT Laurell K. Hamilton and I don't think she wants to be. Sookie is NOT Anita and I don't think she was intended to be. Once you get that straight in your head, you can sit back and enjoy a fun couple of books. Ms. Harris' characters are developing (so did Ms. Hamilton's as everyone should remember! Reread Guilty Pleasures if you've forgotten) and I hope they will become stronger as time goes on. Book two is already a little better than book one. Except for her "disability" to hear thoughts, Sookie is just your typical young girl waiting tables at a bar - she's no powerhouse cop or "bonded" with a vampire although she is in love with one. And except for tossing in the fact that Sam is a werewolf (where is she going with that? and why bother?), the books are pretty much just slow-paced murder mysteries with vampires in them. Not scary, a little down-homey, a touch funny sometimes, but also just a nice book to read on a rainy weekend. It doesn't disappoint if you don't expect anything except Sookie Stackhouse and HER world. Oh, and lose the cover art - those covers are for children's books, not adult murder mysteries.
4	1036972800	I just finished reading the first two books in this series - and i really enjoyed it!  I thought it would be the old cliche - girl meets vampire, girl falls in love with vampire, very mushy ending, but it was original and enjoyable!  There were a lot of similarities between this series and the Anita Blake (Laurell K. Hamilton)series - there were the usual vampires, werewolves, shape shifters and other magical creatures, but these characters were incorporated in to the story in more of a humourous and non-cynical way which makes for an interesting read.It is hard not to like Sookie's character - she's kind and sweet, but not so much that she becomes irritating.  The only thing i disliked was her allowing her boyfriend to feed from her so readily - it just felt like he was using her.  I would like to see "Bill" the undead boyfriend loosen up a bit - like Eric (who is like the master vampire in town) who is also very much attracted to Sookie.But all in all i would recommend this series - it has a bit of everything in it, romance, murder, mystery, humour and vampires.
5	1035936000	I picked up this book thinking it sounded really bizarre, and it was. I started reading it and I couldn't put it down. It was very cleverly written and very entertaining. I am not a big fan of romance novels, but this one is so darn cute. Mixing in the mystery and the vampires and shapeshifters makes it a fun read.
5	1034899200	One of the most realistic books I have ever read involving vampires.Sookie Stackhouse is a waitress in a bar. In walks Bill &amp; he sits at one of her tables. The first thing she notices about him is that he is a vampire (they have recently been recognised legally &amp; live openly among the humans), the second thing Sookie notices about him is that she can't hear him. You see Sookie has a problem, she can read peoples minds.This book has everything you want from a vampire story, it has intrigue, eroticism &amp; it holds you from the 1st. page right through to the last. And leave you wanting more...
5	1034294400	I bought this book on impluse at a local bookstore and ended up stay awake half the night because I could not put it down.  The characters are great and very real.  Enough has been said about the plot, so I will just say that I think this is worthwhile read for anyone interested in a nice murder mystery with a little of the supernatural on the side.
3	1032912000	After having read Laurell K. Hamilton's series, this seemed like my next bet.  I confess it was slightly disappointing.  The dialogue often seemed forced, and the plot was a thinly veiled - a rather pale copy of Anita Blake.  There was no tension between Bill and Sookie because Harris allowed them to jump into bed without resistance within the first hundred or so pages and everything fell so neatly into place.  When Sam turns out to be a shapeshifter, I couldn't help comparing it, again, to the Anita Blake series.  Don't get me wrong...it was interesting, but it wasn't &quot;WOW!&quot;
5	1032739200	I picked up this book after looking at all the positive reviews on it, and I'm glad I did.  Believe it or not this book actually has some orginal ideas regarding vampires!  But, you don't have to be a vampire fan to like this book, just someone who likes a good mystery.  I won't say much about plot, because enough has already been said in previous reviews.  Just Know that his book offers a very smooth read allowing the reader to easily escape into the story.  This is a mystery that will keep you turning the page until the very end and then...you will have to go buy the next book in the series, like I did.  :-) Fun, fun, fun!
5	1032566400	I just got this book yesterday and on the 2nd chapter, I'm already hooked. It is so original and out of the ordinary, that I was so curious I had to read it. It is a very creative story, and is sure to keep you up a night reading. I'll be sure to remember the name Charlaine Harris!
5	1032048000	I really enjoyed this book.  I love it when people can take an old theme and add a whole new twist.  Plus loads of turns.  It is especially nice when they top it off with a sense of humor.  The book transports you to a place of enjoyment, the only drawback is that once the book is over it's back to reality until you pick up her next book.
4	1031529600	Sookie Stackhouse is a cocktail waitress in a small town in the American south. ...Of course, there are even people who enjoy consorting with vampires and being bitten by them; they're called 'fang-bangers'...But this is no sappy romance, just as it's not Gothic. ...At the same time, this is also a murder mystery. Several people are killed in the town, and for a while Bill is one of the suspects, as the victims all have vampire bites. There is some graphic violence in this book; it's not for the squeamish. Sookie herself is in danger, as is Bill. (Watch for Sookie's bodyguard, Bubba - you'll scream with laughter!)If it's possible to call any book containing vampires 'realistic', then this book is about the most real-feeling vampire novel I've read. Sookie's a lot of fun, and Bill is... scary but nice. :) Very down-to-earth in many ways; how often have you come across vampires having trouble contacting kitchen installers?A very entertaining read! I have to admit that it felt unfinished to me when I got to the end, but then I came here and realised that there is a sequel! Off to order that now...
5	1031011200	I've read both books in this series and can't wait for the third one to come out.  The style this is written in is very different from any other books I've read.  It's a mystery mixed with humor mixed with horror with a little bit of romance thrown in.The characters, even though some of them are supernatural, are all believable and 3-dimensional, as well as incredibly interesting.  I highly recommend this one!
5	1031011200	its been a long time for me since i finally found a book that i can't put down once i started reading it..i was never a fan of  vampiry stuff..i came across this book and what attracted my attention was the cover and 2ndly that the story had a girl who can read minds and couldnt do that with just one person..so i gave it a shot..i read and read and read..and i couldnt put it down but also i didnt want to finish it so fast i wanted to enjoy the book...its a bout a young cute girl named Sookie who can read everyones mind..but then she meets a man whos brain was locked..and he turns out to be a vampire..but the way the writer disbribed the vampire made it so imaginary..i did not imagine him as the vampire in the cover cus he's ugly..i enjoyed the romance and love between her and  vampire Bill...there is a crime in the story which makes u wonder is it him whoz killin those people just to have her alone for his own..anyways...give it a try..i think girls will like this story more than boys
4	1029024000	Dead Until Dark was a fun read for my summer break.  I've always liked fantasy books, but this one was cute b/c it had some comedy mixed into it.  It's set in modern times but has a twist since half of the characters are vampires.  It's perfect for people who like Buffy the Vampire Slayer or are into dark romances.  I liked it b/c it had fantasy and romance, but had humor to keep it light.
5	1028505600	Sookie Stackhouse is just about perfect: she is blonde, beautiful, hardworking, takes care of her grandmother and her irresponsible brother, doesn't mind living in a small town, enjoys being a waitress...and everyone thinks she is crazy. She cannot get a date or stand being around most men because she is telepathic. So when she meets the vampire Bill, who is trying to "mainstream" (live among humans) and finds that she cannot read his thoughts, she falls for him. However, having a vampire for a boyfriend isn't as easy as one would think. Bill has really creepy friends, drinks synthetic blood and may be a psychotic murderer. Someone in town is strangling women who are vampire junkies, and Bill is the only vampire who lives there. So Sookie sets out to find the murderer and clear Bill and her brother's name. In the midst of the investigation, she comes to the attention of a really handsome, really powerful, older vampire who sees that she could be very useful. Sookie isn't interested, but Eric plays by his own rules. Then, as if her love life wasn't confused enough, Sookie finds out that her boss, Sam, is really a shapeshifter and is falling in love with her too...This book was a little slow at the beginning, but once Harris got going, Sookie became a delightful character to read about. She is funny and sarcastic and has a very interesting way of seeing life. Of course, being able to read minds will probably give you a slightly skewed vision of humanity. Anyway, I loved Harris' characters. Even the supporting characters were well drawn and you felt that you knew just about everyone in town that Sookie knew.I also enjoyed the idea of the vampires coming out of the closet, so to speak. The vampires were using the press to claim that they were victims of a virus and that they couldn't do anything about their condition. So Japan created a synthetic blood (in different blood types/flavors, of course) that the vampires could live off of. The vampires didn't have to hide anymore and many were becoming policemen and the like to use their talents to help society.The only complaint that I have is that the mystery plot was pretty weak. There was not a lot of time given over to the mystery and the ending was kind of abrupt and a little too neat. This was unfortunate because everything else about the book was great. I look forward to reading more books by Charlaine Harris and hope that she sticks with this series for a while. If you like Laurell Hamilton, Tanya Huff or Susan Sizemore, you will love Charlaine Harris.
4	1027728000	When I read the first page, my first thought was-oh no, this books gonna be boring. But when I got further along into it I realised Dont judge a book by its cover (Or first page).Its a wonderful vampire story about a small town waitress called Sookie, who ever since she heard about vampires, has been wanting to meet one.Well she gets her wish. Soon she and Bill (Thats the vamps name) are dating, and Sookies life takes a drastic change. She meets CHangelings and is wanted by Vampire leaders for her Telepathic abilites. I cant wiat for the next!
5	1027382400	I really enjoyed this book and the sequel "Living Dead in Dallas" - funny, smart, intelligent, inventive and fun.  I did notice immediately the similarities to the Anita Blake series.  Being derivative, however, is not necessarily a bad thing - an entire genre of great fantasy came into being because J.R.R. Tolkein wrote "The Lord of the Rings" - and I for one appreciate it!  And sometimes, as in this case, the copy surpasses the original.  I am really looking forward to the next book in this series.
5	1027296000	Sookie Stackhouse has always been considered crazy because she can read minds.  When she meets a vampire named Bill and discovers that she can't read his mind she is thrilled.  Because vampirism has been declared a disease vampires are considered "the legally recognized undead", which means that Sookie and Bill are free to date openly.  Their budding relationship is soon threatened by the murder of Sookie's grandmother, a mob of frightened townspeople, some dangerous rogue vampires and a sexy boss who has his own secret.  This is a clever start to a promising new series and has recently been nominated for an Agatha award.  Customers who like Laurell Hamilton should enjoy this series.
4	1027123200	..._Dead Until Dark_ is one of the best fantasies I've read in a long time. It is far better than any of the Anita Blake novels that ...If you want a fun read that doesn't descent into all sorts of goth nonsense then this is the book for you.
5	1026345600	"Dead Until Dark" by Charlaine Harris is a phenomenal read filled with intriguing, likable characters and a wonderfully original storyline that made this book impossible to put down.  I was utterly absorbed in this fast-paced and thrilling story and loved EVERY minute of it!Sookie Stackhouse lives in a small town in rural Louisiana and makes her living working in a bar called Merlotte's.  But Sookie has a kind of disability, she's a telepath, though most people just think she's crazy.  The truth of the matter is that poor Sookie is nearly DRIVEN crazy by all the thoughts belonging to other people whizzing around in her head all day long.  Which makes it pretty hard for Sookie to have a normal dating life.  It's not that she isn't pretty, because she is, it's just that Sookie finds it hard to get in the mood with someone who is critiquing her ... or wishing she was someone else.Then one day, Bill the vampire walks into her work and sits down, and all she hears from him is . . . NOTHING!  There is a blissful silence in the region where Bill's thoughts should be invading her mind and Sookie is overjoyed.  But when she listens into some human thoughts she finds out that Bill is in serious danger.  Sookie manages to save Bill's life (or should that be death?) and then Bill and Sookie's relationship grows from there.But strange things are happening in the sleepy little town of Bon Temps.  Young women are turning up dead, strangled, and each of them has vampire bites on her body.  And though Bill and Sookie are growing closer by the day, Bill hangs out with a seriously creepy bunch of vampires who are suspected of these murders.Bill and Sookie are one of the BEST couples I have encountered in a long while.  They have an intense chemistry with each other that makes for some amazingly erotic and sensual encounters to tantalize readers.  But in addition to that passion, Bill and Sookie come to truly love and care about one another and I had a hard time remembering that they weren't real friends of mine.So while Bill and Sookie become more and more important to one another, many circumstances try to tear them apart.  The head honcho vampire of the area, Eric (a former Viking) wants Sookie to use her telepathic skills to help him find someone who's stealing from him, and he wants Sookie for himself.  The murders that keep occurring make hatred against vampires a common thing in the town of Bon Temps, which could spell disaster for Bill.  Sookie's boss, Sam, suddenly decides to make a play for Sookie when he sees that he is losing her to Bill and in addition to all this, Sookie thinks she may be next on the murderer's list, as a waitress from her work becomes the next victim.All of these complications build towards a thrilling climax and, very sadly, the end of the book.  Luckily for me I had "Living Dead in Dallas" as well so I didn't have to wait to read more about my new favourite vampire, the undeniably sexy Bill, and the witty, quirky, and just plain wonderful Sookie.  And by the way "Living Dead in Dallas" is just as good as "Dead Until Dark", I'd give them both 6 stars if I could!All-in-all, you just don't want to miss "Dead Until Dark".  Charlaine Harris has created a fantastic set of characters who will continue to enthrall me for as long as she writes about them.  Harris has proved what a talented author she truly is and she can't write this series fast enough for me.  So don't miss out on all the fun, passion, and danger, buy "Dead Until Dark" today!
4	1025308800	Just like the Anita Blake series, this book is another fun and enjoyable read. Though it may have some similarities to the work of Laurell K. Hamilton, I think this story can more than hold its own when compared to the Anita series.
4	1023321600	Sookie has a disability: she's a telepath.  While you might think there's an up to this, it hasn't been that way for Sookie.  For one, it's hard to have a regular dating life when you can read the minds of the men you're with.  It's hard to get in the mood, she posits, when the man you're with is critiquing your body in his head and you can hear it.Enter Bill.  Bill the vampire.  Bill whose mind is a closed door to Sookie, and who represents a unique opportunity for Sookie: someone whose mind she can't just read.  However, dating the living dead in a small southern town doesn't put you on the Redneck's Most Loved list, and suddenly people are turning up dead.Oh yeah, and there's a vampire Viking who wants her to come work for him.  Apparently, telepaths are quite useful.Sookie is a delight to read, snarky and sarcastic and her life is a riot to read.  If you like Tanya Huff's "Keeper" novels, or the antics of Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden novels, you'll love the Southern Vampire series that Harris has put together.The strength of the plot is in the characters.  The mystery in and of itself was a little weak, but I didn't care while reading it: this was mind candy reading, fun, sweet, and easily devoured.  The crimes may be rather bloody at times, but Sookie's southern style definitely keeps the tone light.Give it a shot if you're looking for something fun, and a little bit different.'Nathan
5	1023062400	Charlaine is a masterful crafter of 1st person prose.  Her main character is instantly likable and only becomes more so as her depth is explored.  This series has originality, great new characters, and a diverse cast.  A little sex, plenty of blood, but only mild violence.Great read!
5	1022803200	This book kept me reading.  I was a little taken back with the names, Sookie and Bill.  But getting past that I found a great story I was complelled to complete in one day.  I love the writting style.
2	1022803200	THIS BOOK I BELIEVE IS WRITTEN FOR AGES 9-14.  IT HAS A POOR STORY LINE.  IT IS LIKE SHE TOOK "ANITA BLAKE'S VAMPIRE HUNTER" SERIES AND MADE IT SIMPLE-MINDED AND HALF-WITTED.SOOKIE STACKHOUSE HAS THE APILITY TO READ MINDS.  SHE WANTS HER NEXT BOYFRIEND TO BE A VAMPIRE.  BILL THE VAMPIRE MOVES INTO HER SMALL TOWN.  THEY BECOME LOVERS.  HER BOSS "SAM" IS A SHAPE-SHIFTER AND NOW WANTS HER TOO.  THERE ARE A FEW MURDERS IN THE STORY BUT.....IN OVER-ALL ...IT IS PRETTY LAME.
4	1022544000	Charlaine Harris offers up an original and fun vampire novel with 'Dead Until Dark'.Sookie Stackhouse, a waitress in a small contemporary Louisiana town, has led her life trying to protect herself from &quot;her disability&quot;-- a telepathic skill so acute she finds it difficult to block out the thoughts of those around her.One night when a vampire named Bill enters the bar Sookie is immediately drawn him.  He's set apart from people just like she is and she's delighted to discover she can't overhear his thoughts at all.  He likewise is surprised he cannot hypnotize her with his power.  They find themselves in the awkward position of meeting on almost equal ground.  When citizens of the town start showing up murdered, Sookie enlists Bill's help.The style of 'Dead Until Dark' really reminds me of Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series.  'Dead Until Dark' is a first person narrative and takes place in an area where everybody knows each other.  Sookie also has a grandma who's a character.  Sookie is, well, kind of goofy.  Her talent for hiding her telepathy is about as great as Evanovich's Stephanie Plum's skill as a bounty hunter.Bill is rather a &quot;thinking&quot; comtemplative vampire, similar to Anne Rice's Louis, except he accepts himself for what he is.  He doesn't reveal much of his past which, no doubt, will unwrap in later installments.Charlaine Harris portrays the vampire world to be as violent as that portrayed by Laurell K. Hamilton.  However, Sookie Stackhouse is no Anita Blake.  The novel does slow somewhat in the middle and wraps up rather peremptorily.  However, 'Dead Until Dark' is an engaging take on 'life with vampires' and has consistent style. And Sookie is a fun character.I look forward to Sookie &amp; Bill developing more as characters in future installments and seeing their relationship grow.
2	1022025600	As several others have pointed out this book is very derivative of Laurell Hamilton's Anita Blake series.  While Charlaine Harris has enough of her own &quot;voice&quot; here 75% of the book could have been Anita Blake.  And do all Vampire girlfriends have to be short &amp; busty?
5	1021939200	As a big fan of Laurell K. Hamilton's vampire books, I immediately felt comfortable in Charlaine Harris' universe. Harris writes well and fluently, the story is quite compelling, and it's going to be a lot of fun to see the continued development of her characters and vampire culture as she continues.What makes the book really special, though, is its great Southern perspective.  Anyone who's from the South will get belly laughs out of some of the protagonist's inner dialogues, and recognize characters in the book as based firmly upon rural reality. (There's a little meditation upon all the various societies in the town -- including the Descendents of the Glorious Dead and the Ladies' Prayers &amp; Potatoes, that had me shaking my head and remembering my great aunts in SC!)I thoroughly enjoyed this book and its sequel, Living Dead in Dallas, and I've pre-ordered number three.  Definitely worth the time!  I'll be following Ms. Harris with interest...
5	1021593600	I had a lot of fun with this book.  Snooky is a cross between Anita Blake and Stephnie Plum.  The story and mystery were OK, but it's the characters that really make the book.  Charlaine Harris does a great job of bringing the characters to life without getting too bogged down in the mind game that some of the authors have started doing.  A good book for cuddling up and reading from cover to cover.
4	1020729600	I picked up both this book and the next in the series together.I really liked the storyline. it did seem a little "familiar" at first since I am a big L.K. Hamilton fan. once into the story and more so in the next book, it seem that C. Harris finds her stride in the telling of the story. she explains her characters and the basic concept of her storyline "mythology" very well. She describes the feelings of her heroine very well and it helps the reader identify with her problems. I think that as C. Harris further develops her world, people will find that it stands on it's own, and not be so quick to compare to other Vampire books.for those not familiar with the story its about a small town girl "Sookie" that is telepathic. this ability has severly cramped her love life. she then meets a person that she cannot read, a vampire by the name of Bill. it seems that since artificial blood has been invented, Vampires have decided to "come out of the casket" so to speak. the rest of the story is a murder mystery that revolves around a few obvious suspects and a few cute plot turns as well. all in all it is a very enjoyable read and I found the book well worth the price.if you decide to get this one, go ahead and get the second in the series as well. it's worth it!
5	1020643200	This book was a breath of fresh air for me. I had just finished reading another wampire series that was exhausting when I picked up this book. The story was a light, fun read. The characters were interesting and straight forward and the story was so entertaining I couldn't put the book down. I like the reading minds thing and ofcourse the vampires. You'll love Eric, he's everything you've ever wanted in a vampire. I've read the second book also and the story line and characters just keep getting better.
5	1020470400	This is the first books I have read of Charlaine's.. I LOVED IT..It was so funny in parts.. that brought tears to my eyes.. with names like Sukie Stackhouse and Bill the Vampire.. with many usual characters that entertained from begining to end.. I read both her books straight off in two days... and which I had another to read straight away... You love the world of the unusual then this is the books for you... sometimes.. horrible sometimes sexy and humourous..  There is nother really another like out there...and gives new edge to the Paranormal books into days market place.. Thank Charlaine..
4	1015718400	Sookie Stackhouse has given up ever trying to find a man in her life. Why so? Her ability to hear the thoughts of those around her has given her a more than quick glimpse into the dirty laundry of her little town of Bon Temps, Louisiana. She's stuck in a dull, rut of an existance not just in her lovelife but also in her work and at home. A waitress at a quaint little diner, Sookie must try to make ends meet to keep the familial home her grandmother has left her. It's the only thing left in her life worth keeping and even then there's a danger that she may lose it. Just when she thinks things will never look up for her a certain stranger arrives into town that will change her life forever.Dead Until Dark is a very good introductory novel to Charlaine Harris' Southern Vampire Mysteries series. She's taken a similar route that Laurell Hamilton took with her Anita Blake series in that the protagonist is a woman who suddenly realizes that her preternatural powers has attracted to her a new breed of men of which exotic would be an understatement. The new man in Sookie's life is Bill, a handsome vampire passing by Bon Temps who catches not just her eye but her curiosity. Sookie cannot read or catch any thoughts from Bill and this is a breath of fresh air for her. Their mutual attraction doesn't flare up right away but grows gradually. Unlike Ms. Hamilton's predilection for interjecting way too much sex (and in the latter installments of the Anita Blake series, quite explicit), Ms. Harris doesn't go for the gold right away. There's abit of a sweet naivete in Sookie's life and her interaction with Bill. I like the sizzling sexual exploits in Ms. Hamilton's books as any fan of hers, but I found the traditional courting of Sookie by Bill to be quite endearing. The book doesn't just involve a growing look into Sookie and Bill's relationship. They also have to contend with the fact that people are gradually going missing or found murdered in her little town. Being the stranger, Bill is suspected right away. It's up to Sookie to find out the truth before whatever she and Bill might have together disappear like a puff of smoke.Charlain Harris has started off her new Southern Vampire Mysteries series in a very good way. She's created quite a funny, endearing and complex character in Sookie Stackhouse. Sookie's not as abrasive and calculating as Anita Blake which makes her quite a nice counterbalance for fans of Anita looking for something new. Dead Until Dark is abit too short and rushes the solving of the murder mystery abit to hastily in the end, but overall the book itself was a fun and entertaining read. I'll be waiting to see whatever adventures Ms. Harris has in store for Sookie.
5	1013212800	When I first checked it out Dead Until Dark at the library, for some reason, I couldn't get into it. But I gave it another chance and I'm glad I did. It has a mix of romance and suspense. Sookie Stackhouse is a great gal and Bill her vampire lover is the best. The story and characters were very interesting and it all takes place in a small town. Usually lots of vampire stories take place in big urban cities, but not Dead Until Dark. Bon Temps, Louisiana is as small as you can get. lol! I read this book in one day, and am currently rereading it. I just ordered my own copy here off of amazon, so that I can return the copy that I'm reading to the library, before I ruin it. lol! I love vampire fiction, especially contemporary/modern day ones. Read this book and you'll love it. Charlaine Harris is a wonderful writer. I can't wait till April for Living Dead in Dallas--another Sookie story. I hope Bill is in this one. :)
3	1010016000	I'd have given this book 4 stars, but the similarity to Laurel Hamilton's work was so marked that even some of the intended &quot;twists&quot; were predictable long in advance because they were the same as in Hamilton's books.  The book is still worth a read, though, thanks to polished prose and a good narrative voice.
5	1010016000	Many will say that Ms. Harris' book is too much like the series by Laurell K. Hamilton. That's because there are many simularities and parallels existing in both series (if &quot;Dead Until Dark&quot; is a series.) All that aside, Ms. Harris' book is a darn good one - and in spite of the simularities - there are many differences as well (who know, maybe both authors came up with the same general idea.) I, for one, enjoyed Ms. Harris' writing style and talent - and I indeed hope that she does decide to write a series on this particular book.
5	1008288000	This book was great.  Hope this is a start of a new series.  The main characters were great and the book leaves you wanting to know more about all of them.  I started reading this at night thinking I would be able to stop and go to sleep in about 30 minutes.  WRONG!  I stayed up all night to finish it and then went to the internet hoping to find if there was plans of a sequel.  Couldn't find the answer , but I hope there will be.Harris' story was like a cross between JD Robb and LK Hamilton.  A little less gory , but just as interesting and is the kind of book that grabs the reader and doesn't let them go.
5	1006041600	Dead Until Dawk was THE BEST vampire book I had ever read.  And yes, I have read Anne Rice.  The characters were well developed and layered and the story was unpredictable.  Bill was the perfect bad guy/good guy and Sookie was a wonderful herione with courage and strong morals.  I loved how they described vampires(&quot;...the legally recognized undead...&quot;), giving a whole new spin on the human/vampire relationship.  The only problem I could see was the quick-cut ending which could easily be resolved by oh say...a series??? C'mon Charlaine, I think yoou got something good going here.
5	1005782400	Well, when I read this book it had just come out so I'm a little late in reviewing it but who cares right, anyway all I have to say is wow this was the first serious vamp novel I had ever read since I have read more but none match up to the stature of this.. Hope there is a sequel, many in fact..
5	1004313600	Loved it.  My only objection is that it seemed to end rather abruptly: the mystery wrapped up but the love relationship unresolved.  Hopefully that is because Ms. Harris is working on a sequel.  Keep the Sookie Stackhouse adventures coming!
4	1003536000	This is one terrific romp of a book. Vivid characterizations and setting make this a really fun read. This book is a rare find indeed- a convincing vampire tale with a sweet and touching romance as its center. Try it- you'll like it!
5	1003449600	... is the reason this book is so special.I really like novels with good vampires. Well, not just novels I'm addicted to &quot;Buffy&quot; and &quot;Angel,&quot; too. So, yeah I've read Laurell K. Hamilton, Tanya Huff, P.N. Elrod and others.  What makes this so successful, besides the humor, is the setting. Anita Blake is a city gal. Tanya Huff's vampire books take place in Toronto. Elrod's Jonathan Barrett books take place in Revolutionary War-era Long Island and London. Her series with the vampire PI is set in Chicago.I also read books about telepaths. In a way, I'm surprised Sookie hasn't read Bester (or watched Babylon 5) and learned to erect barriers his way. Sookie is a quite believable teep, I'm glad she's not yet crazy, and found two people she can be herself with.Sookie Stackhouse, Bill, Sam and the rest live in a small town named Bon Temps in northern Louisiana. Though I don't live in the south, I visited there this summer, where I bought this book.I visited small towns just like this and I can see Bill wanting to live in the &quot;mainstream,&quot; in the house he grew up in.  I ***really*** hope there are more of these books to come.
5	1003449600	Finally someone has written a vampire book that combines a decent mystery with a little bit of romance, likeable characters and a realistic vampire mythology.  OK, vampires aren't &quot;real&quot; but I happen to dislike books in the fantasy/horror genre that don't at least provide a believable explanation for what I'm asked to accept.  Ms. Harris has done that and more.  I also like the fact that her vampires are not unusually glamorous or larger than life - if average people become vampires why can't they be average vampires?  Anyway, I highly recommend this book and look forward to more.
5	1003276800	Thankfully it was a cold, wet afternoon when I bought read Dead Until Dark-nothing to do but settle in and enjoy this. Sookie kicks butt, Bill is surprisingly common as a vampire (and refreshingly angst-free about his bloodsucking status) and the small-town characters are winningly portrayed.Some people will compare this (negatively) to Laurell Hamilton &amp; others. Yes, there are similarities, but thank God for the differences. Harris's writing is tight and neat, with nothing wasted. Deaths actually *matter* in this book, instead of being treated as unimportant. The conflict between Sookie and her brother is handled realistically, and the world Harris sets up is believable while also making you think &quot;Did she just do that?&quot; One word: Bubba. Bubba is unexpected, original, and heaps of fun.Reading this made me track down Harris's other series, and I'm enjoying them thoroughly. Can't wait for another in this series, though.
3	999648000	I enjoyed reading Dead Until Dark. I liked Harris' twist on Sookie's mind-reading abilities and all the problems they cause her. I also liked the tounge-in-cheek humor. It was quickly paced, the characters were interesting and I wouldn't be at all suprised if this develops into a series. On the otherhand, Harris is treading over ground that has already been staked out (pun intended) by other, more successful authors - Laurell K. Hamilton and Tanya Huff - both of whose urban vampire books I have enjoyed. I couldn't help but notice that Dead Until Dark shared obvious parallels with both series, and is likely to fall into the same traps. There is the whole vampire boyfriend vs. werewolf(shapeshifter since Sam can choose) boyfriend triangle. This threesome in the Anita books has painted the plot into a corner which Hamilton has not always been successful in working her way out of. At least Sam and Bill are more civilized about their interest than Richard and Jean Claude. And again you had the three-way relationship with Vicky, Henry (the vamp) and Michael, who at least was human. I think it is the human versus supernatural worlds that make it interesting, so my biggest problem is where do you go with the story? Sookie already runs the risk of becoming a vampire herself with repeated blood drainings and donations. At the end she was changing appearance and gaining in strength, though admittedly she is something more than human with her mind reading. Still, part of what is interesting about Anita is her constant struggle to remain human (or at least not one of the monsters). When Vicky becomes a vampire, the series didn't have anywhere to go and just died. If Harris can keep Sookie anchored in the human world she should be ok. I also think she has to be careful to distinguish her other southern mystery series (Shakespeare) from these because reading about working-class, anti-social, mystery-solving, bad-boyfriend choosing Sookie was also a lot like reading about Lily Bard without the supernatural elements. If she can keep the tone light and interesting and avoid duplicating other's work I predict a successful series of new books.
5	998956800	This book was most enjoyable..It wasn't of the normal vampire genre in books. It had a sense of humour and the characters were not all dark and morose.. The very idea of a vampire acclimating to normal human behaviour is pretty wild in itself.If you are looking for a different kind of book with a smooth style of writing and pretty dynamic characters, I would definitly check it out.
5	997142400	I ordered "Dead Until Dark" [....]  I got my books in today and because of the very well done jacket cover, found myself pulling it from the pile first.  The premise sounded very interesting and atypical of vampire fiction.I was hooked from the first page and read this book in one sitting.  I devoured it (tongue in cheek!)The 411:  Sookie is this waitress in some small town near N'awlins.  In this world, which appears to be in the present tense, or not so distant and not too futuristic time, vampires have "come out of the coffin."  They're protected legally, though, still treated by many/most as monsters, predators, fiends.  Some of the vampires live up to this rep.  There are some characters in this book that will make your skin shiver.  Others, like the vampire Bill (I'm still laughing at his name.  Even Sookie comments on its incongruousness with the glamour associated with vampirism.) ..like Bill, are merely trying to "mainstream" ....live in a human world, at least, after dark.Sookie is a bit different herself.  She has major telepathic abilities.  She can hear what folks think.  This has been a major deterrant for her meeting and maintaining relationships with guys.  Till she meets Bill.  For some reason, with Bill, she can't hear his thoughts.How does she meet Bill?  Well, apparently, in this society, there is a black market for vampire blood.  Vampires are caught and "drained."  Vampire blood is reported to make folks heal miracurously, and/or increase sexual power.  Sort of Viagra and the founting of Youth and an All cure rolled into one.For some, though, drinking vampire blood makes them crazy.However, this was not a focal point of this book.  I thought it might be but it just served as an interesting bit of plot.  That's the thing I enjoyed about this book.  The author took great care in giving us reasons for everything.  In a world that is hard to imagine, she made it easier by bringing its reality to terms we could understand/relate to.Anyway, Sookie meets Bill by saving his life from two "drainers."  When the drainers come to retaliate and nearly kill Sookie, Bill saves her.  (Bill..I love it!)  Thus begins their relationship.  It's rocky, and very disturbing in some points, not easy and certainly questionable. There is also this matter of these murders that keep popping up all over town.  Who did it~ is the question on everyone's mind, and Sookie will help...There are SOOOOOOOOO many wonderful secondary characters.  Sam, for instance, Sookie's boss.  And Eric, the oldest vampire that Bill knows, who sends sookie flowers that look like vaginas.  I got the feeling that there will be another book in this series, because the stories to tell here.There is humor..lots of it.  I was laughing out loud.  There was violence, so strong I physically cringed.  The sensuality level is pretty intense too, as is the awful humanity in this book as well.  We all are, in some ways, monsters.Anyway, there is so much to say here.  I can't say enough great things about this book.  I am not someone who reads alot of vampiric fiction, but I drank this one in with relish (and a side of toast!)  It's really good stuff.
5	996364800	sorry, that was bad!  I am a big Charlaine Harris fan and only mildly interested in vampires.  But the combination of a an uncontrollably mind-reading heroine, newly legal vampires, a serial killer, a shape-shifter -- how could I resist?  I find I don't want to say much at all about the plot, as it's too easy to give away some really exciting twists.  It's fair to say that the story postulates vampires as a newly-emerged legal minority (word is they've been victimized by superstition, when really the poor people have been subjected to a terrible virus) with attendant vampire-philics and phobics roiling the waters of cultural change.  Vampires can now subsist on artificial blood, so they don't have to be a danger to anyone.  Harris has thought through vampire culture and the interaction of that culture with &quot;normal&quot; society to great effect -- the book would be fun to read just for that .I have to admit, though, that nothing about the vampires interested me as much as the main character, Sookie.  If you think you want to be able to know what other people are thinking, the limitations of Sookie's life will make you think again.  She's brave, brilliant and decent and watching her (and her sex life) develop is a true joy.Meanwhile, the book is tightly and extravagantly plotted and the psychological effects are fascinating and disturbing, absolutely gripping.  Read it over a weekend or on vacation so you won't have to put it down -- you'll just have to know what happens next!Harris has set this up to continue as a series, and if she can continue this level of quality, people will be lining up for each new book.
4	995587200	Very nice quirky little book. Part mystery, part horror and some very funny humor. (i.e. page 1 &quot;Every since vampires came out of the coffin&quot;  page 177 &quot;All the vehicles were high-priced. You won't find a vampire in a Ford Fiesta&quot;) And who ever thought they would read a vampire book with one of the vampires named Bubba.
5	994723200	I'm a jaded vampire addict.  I read Elrod, lurk in the Masquerade, slaughter with Anita Blake, and kick butt with Buffy.  Even so, I was hardly prepared for the advent of Sookie Stackhouse, a cocktail waitress at Merlotte's Bar in Bon Temps, Louisiana.  Snookie is smart, cute, a perfect country girl, and totally dateless.  Why?  Well, she has a slight disability - she can read minds.One night at Merlotte's the small town doldrums are broken when a stranger rolls in.  Not just any stranger, but a real vampire!  Up from New Orleans and planning to settle down.  Now that artificial blood has been invented, being a vampire has become legal.  In the past few years many have decided to enter mainstream society.  But the best part of all, Sookie discovers, is that she cannot read the stranger's mind.When two of the town's more nefarious characters try to waylay Sookie's customer and drain his blood; she comes to the rescue.  In short order, Sookie and Bill the vampire (that's right - Bill) become a couple.  Sookie helps Bill get his house repaired, introduces Bill to her Gran, and roots for him when he speaks to the Descendants of the Glorious Dead (a Civil War study group).All is not perfect though.  Bon Temps is shaken by a series of horrific stranglings and the prime suspect is Sookie's brother.  Bill is plagued by vampires from his past life (death?) as a bad New Orleans vampire.  Not all of his past friends want him to go straight.  And even Sookie's eternal optimism finds that dating a vampire can be a bit of a challenge.  Sookie and Bill realize that the only way to return Bon Temps to peace and get on with a normal (?) life is to solve the crimes.It is impossible not to love Sookie, and enjoy many of the other quirky inhabitants of her small Southern town.  Bill is not menacing in the traditional sense, and is a perfect gentleman most of the time.  But writer Charlaine Harris never lets us quite forget that he is an efficient killer and a cold and deadly opponent.  The novel is a pleasure to read and is full of surprises.  Hopefully this will be the first in a new series of vampire tales in a Lousiana totally unlike that of Anne Rice.  Prepare yourself, the South rises again!
3	994636800	If you are expecting a Laurell K. Hamilton clone, you will be disappointed.  However, if you like a fun read with some new twists and turns, read &quot;Dead Until Dark&quot;.Both main characters are establishing an identity and do it well while solving a mystery.  Harris has her own unique style of writing and for me it works. I'm definitely looking forward to the next in the series.
5	994550400	Ultra normal(except for a little psychic ability) Sookie finds adventure and love with her vampire Bill.  Very sweet with real character development and interest. A fair number of people in the cast but its was a fast moving suspense and love story that pulled it all together at the end. I liked the historical and social background provided to make this alternative universe work as well as the way it captured the American small town mentality.
5	994118400	Dead Until Dark is definitely a different type of vampire novel.  Personally, I'm not sure what type of category it fits into.  You see it's a combination of horror, mystery, romance, and comedy.  Yes, you read that line right.  It's a combination of all the above.  Sookie Stackhouse (that name grows on you) is a waitress at the local bar.  Though not unattractive, Sookie doesn't date much.  The locals consider her "slow."  Sookie isn't slow.  According to her, she has a disability.  Her disability is she can read people's minds and that has a tendency to make them uneasy around her.  Sookie has spent most of her life erecting mental barriers.  Barriers that let her to block out what others are thinking.  It is the only thing that allows her to keep her sanity.  Then one night, a vampire comes into the bar.  Sookie is delighted because she can't read his thoughts.  This gives Sookie someone she can be around without expending vast amounts of energy to protect herself, someone whom she feels she can relax around.I love the scene where Sookie saves the vampire's life at the first of the book and they introduced themselves to each other.  The scene goes something like this..."Bill," he said.  I rocked onto my back with laughter.  "The vampire Bill.  I thought it might be Antoine, or Basil, or Langford!  Bill!" I hadn't laughed so hard in a long time.  With a sense of humor like this, you've got to love the heroine of this story.Suddenly, the young women in this southern town are being murdered.  The signs point to vampire killings.  The town people, who are uneasy about the new law protecting vampires, begin to look at Bill in a different light.  One minute he acts like them, and then you see his scum vampire friends and realize these guys aren't human.To fully appreciate this book, you have to read it for yourself.  I'm not kidding.  It's not quite like anything I've read before.  I've never read anything by Charlaine Harris before, but I'll definitely be looking for more books by her.
5	993859200	Dead Until Dark is one book that should not be missed.  I LOVED everything about this book.  LOVED IT, LOVED IT, LOVED IT!!  The heroine, vampire and storyline were superbly written.  A definite page-turner here!!  I couldn't put it down . . . .In the story, vampires are now legally recognized.  They can go out in public and mingle with humans without the fear of being persecuted.  Sookie Stackhouse lives in Bon Temps, Louisiana.  She waitresses at Merlotte's Bar and leads a pretty quite but happy life.  Yet, Sookie isn't your ordinary waitress.  She has telepathic abilities which enables her to hear the thoughts of other people.  This makes it pretty hard for her to have any kind of social life. She almost never has a date despite the fact that she is very pretty with blond hair and blue eyes.  Mostly everyone thinks she is crazy.For years, she has wanted to meet a vampire.  One night, quite unexpectedly, she does . . .Bill is a Civil War-era vampire.  He is the &quot;man&quot; of her dreams.  He is tall, handsome and mysterious.  More importantly, she cannot hear his thoughts.  She is estatic to find that there is only silence and tranquility when her mind merges to his.  For Sookie, this kind of mental relaxation is almost seductive.She saves Bill from a nasty encounter and their relationship takes off.  Immediately, he realizes that Sookie is different from other humans.  He cannot use his vampire power on her.  She is indifferent to his power.  In all of his centuries he has existed, Bill has never come in contact with a human who could resist his power.  He is intrigued.Suddenly, one of Sookie's co-workers is killed.  Someone in Bon Temps is killing young women and making it look as though it is the work of a vampire.  Teeth marks are found on the victim's thighs.  Soon Bill and Sookie join forces hoping to find the culprit before the town turns against all vampires.Dead Until Dark is a SUPERB vampire romance/mystery.  I just loved Sookie.  She was pretty, smart, courageous and so very funny.  Some of the things she said had me laughing out loud!  Bill wasn't your typical bloodsucker running wild in search of &quot;food&quot;.  Yeah, he could be dangerous but he was more civilized than the other vampires who arrive unexpectedly.HIGHLY - HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!  It is a SUPERB vampire romance with a sweet dose of romance.  ENJOY!
1	993686400	If you like vampire books, like I do, then there is no need to read this book. The plot (or lack there of) is very basic. Someone is killing vampires, and the main character (Sookie) and her boyfriend vampire (Bill) have to find who's doing the killing and why.The Main character are very weak.Sookie is someone who can read minds, and falls in love with a vampire b/c she can't read his mind.  I found her char to be very limited and annoying.Bill the vampire....what a weak vampire. Everything you can expect from a vampire, you won't find in Bill. Not only is he a &quot;good&quot; vampire, but also a very weak one.The other thing that bothered me about this book is that the other vampires (even the &quot;bad&quot; ones) were not that bad. They did nothing that violent or &quot;vampiery&quot;.I read that some of the reviewers compared this book to the likes of Laurall K. Hamilton....not in a long shot.  If you haven't read any of Hamilton book, start with Guilty Pleasures, and work your way through that series. You won't be sorry.Only but this book if you see it at a used bookstore.I expected so much from this book, and it just didn't deliver.
4	993254400	The novel reads likes a mixture of Harris' understatedly excellent &quot;Lily Bard&quot; mysteries and Laurell K. Hamilton's &quot;Anita Blake&quot; novels.  The setting is a small Southern town, several years after the undead came out of the closet, and received recognition as citizens.  Not that the prejudice against them has disappeared. Harris' heroine is less macho than Hamilton's Anita, and the narrative is calmer, for the most part, than LKH's typically breathless race; although there are several terror and rage-filled scenes. In many ways this is also a coming-of-age novel, as Sookie, the heroine, turns from a naive, intentionally simple waitress into an unwilling participant in supernatural politics and an ugly crime investigation, discovering and using hidden resources.Some of the elements are extremely similar to Anitaverse, even more striking considering the trailing advertisements for the AB:VH novels. However, Harris' style is all her own, and this novel is a welcome addition to the most entertaining vampire novels, a class which for me includes, in addition to Anita Blake novels, Collins' Sonja Blue trilogy and Wm. Mark Simmons' _One Foot in the Grave_.
4	993168000	While "Dead Before Dark" is a welcome addition to the horror --vampire/mystery/romance/girl power genre that Laurel K. Hamilton and Tanya Huff do so well, I found the basic premise of the story derivative of the two authors. It seems to follow the Laurel K. Hamilton pattern in particular. Girl with 'superpowers' falls for and has problems deciding between a vampire and shape shifter and or werewolf.That being said, Charlaine Harris tells a fantastic a fun story with interesting characters and with a premise that I'd like to follow into an indefinite amount of sequels. The mystery is engaging, and any book that has the main character named Sookie is just too much fun.Sookie reads peoples thoughts whether she wants to or not. Everyone thinks she's crazy because she spends so much time trying not to read other people's thoughts that it makes her dingy. So, she never has boyfriends, because really, who wants to be able to read their lover's mind in the middle of an intimate moment? Then Sookie's dream man, the one-man whose mind she can't read walks into her bar. The fact that he's a Vampire just makes dating a bit more complicated. Oh, and the fact that a killer is on the loose biting women's inner thighs and then strangling them to death, and her Vampire boyfriend Bill and her brother (who likes kinky sex) are at the top of the list of suspects.Harris is definitely a new author worth watching and if you like your horror mixed with romance / laughter and a kick ... heroine then "Dead Until Dark" is the book for you.
3	991526400	I notice several reviews have gone over the plot, etc. of this book, so i won't particularly talk about that aspect; what i'm going to look at is what either does or doesn't make it unique.I have some familiarity with Louisiana (mostly New Orleans, but i have ranged out into the countryside), and i have to say that the setting rings true, both as Southern-in-general and Louisiana-version Southern in particular.The jokes about New Orleans being like a Promised Land for vampires, now that they're &quot;out of the coffin&quot;, because of Anne Rice are dead on their target of Rice's overwrought novels.  The concept that there would be &quot;vampire groupies&quot;, while i hadn't thought about it, makes pefect sense.  Certainly, such being the case, there would be vampire bars and vampire-cruise bars, where groupies could make contact with vamps.The concept of vampires having full civil rights under law, but sometimes finding it rather difficult to get those rights supported has resonances that are reinforced by the Southern setting.And every book set in the South involving working-class characters has to have a character named Bubba.  I *liked* Bubba.Structurally, this is a more-or-less standard Southern Gothic mystery -- the kind where the killer turns out not to be the mysterious stranger who arrived just before the killings started, but rather the third cousin twice removed of every important character in the book, whose twisted sexual urges as a result of generations of inbreeding drive him to...Well, you know what i mean -- it's one of Those with neet added dimensions in narrator Sookie's special ability and the admixture of vampires as suspects and victims.The mystery is reasonably logically resolved, and the author doesn't cheat.I rather hope for more books in the same setting by Charlaine Harris -- and the ending of this one is certainly open for some ... &quot;interesting&quot; ... sequels.((Structurally, this book is rather reminiscent of &quot;Who Censored Roger Rabbit&quot;, the book on which the Disney film was (very) loosely based -- it's a straight mystery played out in a world with one wild-card fantasy element added that could change everything...))
5	990748800	I have to agree with some of the other reviewers regarding the many similarities to Laurell K Hamilton's Anita Blake books.  However, Dead until Dark is written in a different, lighter voice.  I found Bill the vampire boyfriend, Sookie, Sam, all distinct from those in the Anita books.The books stands on it's own as fresh and fun with infinite potential. How can you not love a book with a vampire named Bubba?  I truly hope that there will be more.
5	990748800	A surprisingly well-written comic thriller.  Couldn't have enjoyed it more.
3	990576000	I had high hopes for this book - I love the mysteries that Ms. Harris writes.  Unfortunately, the main characters are suspiciously familiar (anybody read LKH?) and the story is entirely too predictable.  If you haven't read Laurell K. Hamilton's 'Anita Blake' series, now would be a great time to start.  Her voice is darker and much more absorbing.
5	990489600	I bought this with low expectations but thought a mystery and Vampires, could be fun.  I couldn't put this book down.  You have to suspend disbelief a whole lot but once you do and buy into the  set up, you are hooked.  I read this during a convention and got to the point where I resented having to attend functions and stop  reading.  I am looking forward to the next one and really can't wait. In a very strange set up you have believable characters that you come to care about and a good mystery.  It may sound silly but it's a lot of fun and well written.  If you like Vampires, or mysteries or both, give it a try.
5	990489600	Sookie Stackhouse lives in a world like ours - except for one difference, 4 years ago Vampires &quot;came out of the coffin&quot; and are now a legal part of USA society.  In this way it's somewhat like the situation in the Anita Blake (author Laurel Hamilton) novels, but in someways I think better written in this book.Sookie herself is unusual with a disability that makes dating a virtual impossiblity until a vampire comes to town and she discovers he's her (almost) perfect man.  Unfortunatley, at the same time people start getting killed, which most of the locals see as an unlikely co-incidence, and in a small town that can almost be deadly itself.The author has written a very readable book here.  I'm not sure if it's the start of a series or not - if it's not - then it's still an enjoyable stand alone novel.  Her characters are believable and likeable, and I don't remember any slow patches that make your attention wander.  In fact, I read this in a day - the sign of a very good book for me.For those people who like fiction that covers, vampires, PSI, alternative realities or mystery fiction, this book pretty well covers all those areas.  Enjoy:)
5	990230400	Fast paced and funny, this charming vampire tale is a refreshing read. The author has quite a wonderful take on contemporary vampire fiction and makes a point of weaving a murder mystery into a genre that usually is all horror. Her characters are marvelously entertaining in their own right, but it is the fast moving plot that carries the reader through this romp-by-the-swamp in contemporary Louisiana. Even Anne Rice gets a bit of a poke from the author, and I hope she writes more books in this vein.
5	990230400	I had such a good time reading this book, I hope Ms. Harris plans on writing more--I would love to explore Sam and Eric and Bill.  Not to mention Sookie--what an excellent combination of beauty, vulnerability and toughness!!I definitely plan to pick up more of Charlaine Harris' books!!  She is a definite winner.......
5	989798400	Picture a world where vampires are just another minority group.  They have jobs, houses, and interact with the general population, not just in the usual Dracula way.  Sookie has always wanted to meet one.  She has an unusual &quot;disability&quot; and is very interested in things that are out of the ordinary.  One evening a vampire walks into the cocktail bar where she works and she is very interested and curious.  She saves his &quot;life&quot; one night, and soon after they become involved.  One problem, someone seems to be killing women who are involved with vampires, and the police seem to suspect her brother.This novel has a little bit of everything, humor, horror, romance, suspense, and mystery.  Hopefully, there will be a sequel soon.
5	989625600	This is a delectable book with humor, romance and horror. It is authentically located in Louisiana and from friends I have from near this area it picks up the flavor of this very distictive area. The characters grow as the book developes and leave's me hungry for a sequel or a series. It was pointed out to me that the heroine is just an average woman, a waitress, that developes with wisdom and sensuality as the book goes on. I cannot recommend this book highly enough..
5	989539200	Charlaine Harris writes a remarkably entertaining mystery that shows Louisiana as a hot bed of people with &quot;gifts&quot; of many sorts. Sookie the telepathic cocktail-waitress; her boyfriend Bill the Vampire; and Sookie's boss Sam who has quite a surprise of his own!When a young woman turns up strangled, and fang marks shows that she had been fed upon in the not so distant pass, suspicions abound in the tiny town of Bon Temps. And when another victim is found murdered with a similar MO, the long arm of the law starts to rech out towards Sookie's brother who apparently has been having &quot;relations&quot; with both.Plot twists abound, and the characterizations are wonderful. A fun read that I can highly recommend.
5	989107200	This was a hilarious book.  I was drawn in after reading the first sentence and didn't put it down till the end.  I hope she comes out w/ a sequel!
5	988502400	Powerful telepath Sookie Stackhouse lives in Bon Temps, Louisiana. Most local residents consider the beautiful twenty-five year old a bit slow, but Sookie knows that she must keep her mental shields in place to avoid inadvertently reading minds. Sookie has no social life, as she detests the idea of listening to her lover's inner thoughts.When Bill the vampire enters the restaurant where Sookie works, she becomes ecstatic because she cannot hear his thoughts. With vampires recently gaining legal status, Sookie hopes to finally have a bit of a love life. The two outcasts hit it off, but someone is killing the females of the town with Bill and Sookie's brother Jason being the only suspects. Sookie knows that the perpetrator has made her the next target.Charlaine Harris, author of two wonderful mystery series, joins the ranks of the urban fantasy authors (Hamilton and Huff) writing exhilarating modern day novels. DEAD UNTIL DARK is serio-comic who-done-it with supernatural overtones to spice the tale and keep mystery, horror, and fantasy readers elated with the plot and cast. Ms. Harris' fan base should multiply with what is the beginning of a Southern paranormal mystery series.Harriet Klausner
5	988329600	If you already like Charlaine Harris' other books, then you'll have a good time with this one as well.  The characters all have quirks, the vampire stuff is dark without losing a sense of humor, the dialogue and characterizations draw you in.  Have a fun read . . .
5	988070400	Charlaine Harris never fails to produce some of the best writing in mystery fiction today - even when creating a entire new set of characters and even a new world.Although it's often hard to blend the contemporary &quot;real&quot; world realistically with myth and legend, DEAD UNTIL DARK successfully crosses that bridge and makes its own rules.All the characters leave a lasting impression, and I certainly hope that this is the first of a very long series.
