4	1396569600	Was purchased as a gift and they said they were very happy with the head phones.No problems the quality I expected from Sony.
4	1396483200	These are great headphones. I already had a pair (Same exact model) from a ways back and I love them for recording and 'critical' listening. Don't get me wrong, these will not replace high end speakers, but every person that has used them in my home studio has loved them.
5	1395964800	Love these...  Use them for everything including monitoring my several hours daily playing acoustic guitar and vocals through my mixer.  In this application, I can hear precisely what I'm playing and singing - the sound is a true reproduction of the performance.  I couldn't expect anything better from a headphone and I don't think I would be able to discriminate sound more precisely than the sound delivered by these headphones.I own six sets of these for use in my music performance / recording, use with my laptop and iPad, and use with a very high-end metal detector.  They will last as long as they are treated properly.  Repeated drops onto hard surfaces from lets say about the height of where they would hang on a mic stand will result in eventual breakage of the plastic.  Not that I'm admitting to anything but they also will not withstand repeatedly rising from a guitar stool while wearing them and at the same time standing on the cord.  Again, this will eventually result in pulling the wires loose.  (Again, I am NOT admitting to having experience with either of these types of misuse - LOL...)In all seriousness, they are great headphones at a great price.  I will continue to replace them with the exact same model as long as they are available.  I don't think I am personally capable of discriminating sound more precisely than delivered by these headphones so I can't possibly think of any reason to pay more for higher-end headphones.  They work great, sound great, and are comfortable enough to wear for several hours.  I use them every day and have only positive things to say about them.
3	1395792000	The head strap portion on these snapped the first month I had them. But it didn't break all the way through so I can still use them, and have been for three years now. So, kind of good and kind of not.
4	1395619200	Meylis Narlyyev says the following about the headphones:Pros: Sound quality fits the price, well made - will last much longer than those smaller iphone headphonesCons: Hurts the ears sometimesOverall I do recommend the headphones.
1	1395014400	As you see in most reviews that these headphones are so painful to wear, I get sore ears from the ear phones because they are quite small and tight. Also the wire is really long but shoddy, it has completely tangled itself into a braided mess and no matter how much i pull it back to normal it still messes itself. This is something I don't carry round with me and leave at work without twisting it much, so it just wrapped itself without effort.
5	1395014400	Also, I can wear them to bed.  They are small and light enough that I can fall asleep wearing them.  Too bad they don't make them anymore.
4	1394150400	Good Sony headphone. Its what I expect from Sony, great sounding. I wish the ear cushions were a bit larger.
4	1393632000	These headphones are superb for the price, but they are not durable (if you let your kids borrow them). Then again, would ANY headphones be durable if you let your little homewreckers use them? I have bought several pair and may purchase more unless I can find something more durable.
5	1392336000	I bought these to replace a pair I had for years. They are the right price for a pair of monitors that I don't need to stress about damaging or losing. I'm not an audiophile, but I do listen to music for hours at a time, every day and enjoy the sound and comfort of these headphones.
5	1391126400	I'm not an audiophile and can't comment on the reproduction of specific tones and such, I can say they sound better than most and as good as any other headphones I've used.  What really makes them great for me is the comfort.  I've used a lot of over the ear (cup) and on the ear phones as well as earbuds.  These are definitely the most comfortable and I can wear these for hours without the discomfort that I've encountered with other headphones or earbuds.  And who can argue with the high quality sound for the price?
5	1390780800	Bought these for my husband when they FIRST came out. Been so long I can`t remember exact year. These headphones have lasted ,Still love them. Although just this year,they ear pads started flaking. They sound great! A little snug at first,but they break in. Cord is a good length and thick.Still in perfect condition.You know the house everyone hangs at. That`s us. These have been pulled,dropped,thrown, and used by everyone!My husband wants his headphones back, so I went online to find something for myself. And lucky me, I found they still sell these.It will be interesting to see if they are the same level of quality. We have everything from $5 ear buds to Beats headphones at home. Most of the time, everyone still goes for the Sony.
5	1390435200	Among one of the best of the smaller headphones I have ever owned. Sound is great & Bass is decent for the size. They feel comfortable when used for hours at a time. I have a big Charlie Brown type Head & these don't make my ears hurt like many other bigger headphones. Also, the Head band doesn't crack like so many others due to my Huge Bulbous head. I have owned 3 of these so far, & they tend to normally fail due to the Wire failing near the Plug or where they enter the Earphones. Lasts about a year with heavy use. I'm sure if they made a version of these where you could replace the Wire, they would last even longer! Still, would buy again.
5	1389916800	Very affordable headphones. Good quality and good sound. I like the ability it has to switch from mono to stereo.
5	1389830400	I bought these Sony MDR-V150 Monitor Series Headphones as I gift for a friend, and she has been very happy with them.  She loved them and said the sound quality is excellent.
2	1388448000	The headphones deliver good sound and seal off the ambient noise almost completely. Unfortunately after a very short time the cheap plastic band broke off  next to a hinge, and the cord started fraying next to the plug. I would not recommend it.
5	1388361600	it is not a pair of very High-Definition monitor headphones but you still hear more sound comparing to a lot of other products in this price range.  I broke one of the hinges after a few years of use, i glued it back and use it as back up.  Now it retired but I am still using it for listening to music sometimes.
5	1387670400	I've been using SONY headphones for years in my recording studio.  I like the MDR-V150 because it's light, easy on the ears and the sound quality is accurate.  For everyday listening and even for professional applications, this set of headphones can't be beat.  If you treat them right, they'll last for years.  I have five or six that have been in use for years.
4	1387584000	I use these when I'm going to be under the headset digitally re-mixing CD masters. They are fairly true to EQ
5	1387324800	These are excellent headphones.  They are just right for my computer.  They provide excellent quality of sound.  No more audio distortions.
4	1387238400	I own both these and the newer zx100 I do have to say the v100 has a better dynamic range than the zx100 it produces a clearer sound and delivers better response over the low-mid and high-mid range.The only bad thing I have to say is that after 2 years I have gaff tape holding the adjustment bands clip, that attaches to the main band that goes over the head on.Personal expierience with headphones:Casual music listening form both computer and phoneLive mixing in theatreStudio monitoring in studioLive mixing on radio
4	1387152000	Fit great. Comfortable. Affordable. Louder in the mids, so you'll need to drop those frequencies down in your EQ a tad.
5	1386806400	I bought these years before Bose and Beats were ever around.  They were the best set of stereo head phones I have ever had.
5	1386720000	Nice fitting and comfortable.  they offer a very nice sound quality as well.  i would recommend these to friends as well.
4	1386633600	I I'm not an audiophile in the tech-y sense, but have been playing electronic instruments (keyboard, bass guitar, etc) for the majority of my life. For a lightweight, inexpensive set of cans, the V150s get the job done. These are typically pretty good for instrument practice, as the range of sound is pretty wide compared to regular earbuds or even some more expensive around-ear or on-ear models.The sound is soft and cushy, with a pretty good deal of natural bass and subdued mids/treble. You won't hear every nuance in your music, but what do you expect for a sub-$50 set? Also, if you're used to in-ear headphones of the Apple/Samsung variety, these will sound soft at first, but your ears will adjust quickly. Avoid the temptation to turn the volume way up (for more than one reason).If you're looking for a more precise set of cans for studio work and/or audiophile duty, you might want to step up to the Sony MDR-V6/7506, or look at even more expensive options from Sony, Sennheiser, Audio-Technica, or Denon. However, if you're looking for something really affordable with legit sound that doesn't break the bank, give these a spin.
5	1386547200	Seriously. Probably the best pair I've ever owned as far as how much I liked the sound.  The bass came through clearly and wasn't muddy, but you could hear mids loud and clear, as well (something that gets lost a lot in bass-heavy headphones).  Also, they weren't too big and gaudy like many other over-the-ear headphones these days, but they were also of an adequate size and looked really stylish.  Mine unfortunately broke and I haven't had a pair since (has been a couple of years).  But, after a lot of other headphone purchases, some $50+, I can say I've only come across maybe one pair that I liked as much as these.
3	1386547200	These headphones sounds great, good bass and clarity. But not durable enough for kids & kind of tight on the ears for adults.
5	1384905600	For what you pay these are amazing. I bought them 5 years ago because I quickly needed a cheap pair of headphones and in comparison to some of the other higher end headphones I've used or owned (Sennheiser, AKG, Beats, Turtle Beach) these are surprisingly good. I like the balance of treble and bass, neither are overpowering. No these are not high end headphones but for the price you pay, if you want a decent pair of headphones for everyday use I would highly recommend them. I find them comfortable, which I can't say about a lot of other brands, and the only con is that eventually the pads will degrade (mine did but after 4 years!). The pads are cheaply replaced here on Amazon for way less than a new pair of cans.
3	1384732800	I have used these headphones at work for years. Due to normal wear and tear, I replace them about every two-years. This pair came with a volume control on the cable - very cool. It's not the same as your iphone headphones, where adjusting the volume actually changes the settings on your listening device, rather just a regular old volume 're-stricter'. As cool as the volume control is, this was the first thing to go on mine. The headphones still work, but since all of the signal is piped through the volume control, when the control knob, as it usually does, eventually starts to have carbon build-up on the (potentiometer) switch, it impacts the volume. You have to turn the volume up and down a few times to get it coming through to your ears at the desired volume, and in stereo.
5	1384473600	I was 12 years old in best buy looking to buy a pair of headphones. At the time, I played my electric strat rigorously and went through a lot of headphones that couldn't seem to last for a very long time. I found these, all black, cool looking for a 12 year old and surprisingly a decent sound quality. 12 years later, still working, and went through many memories.you can take this as a musician that has used these headphones to play her guitar and also as a person who likes to pack headphones to listen to music. They've worked with my CD player, iPod, and iPhone.However, my headphones have finally broken, only because I accidentally stepped on them. The headphones still work, the earpiece is just tapped together.  I came here looking to buy another pair.
5	1383523200	If you like &#34;on the ear&#34; headphones you can't go wrong with these!  One of the best features is that the cord is VERY sturdy, you can snag it a hundred times and it won't break!  The headphones overall are really well made, have GREAT sound, and are very sturdy.  I rarely say this but these things are WAY underpriced!  I've had the Bose &#34;on the ear&#34; headphones and they surely aren't worth all the extra money compared to these!  But you know how &#34;audiophiles&#34; are, they have to have the best regardless of price.  I think Sony would make more money if they quadrupled the price, LOL!
5	1381968000	This is a great handsfree headset!  The clarity and acoustics are awesome! It feels comfortable and fits snuggly. This is the headset to buy.
5	1380931200	love these headphones! They fit really good and sound great. Great value and much better than those little earbuds. Have had now for 3+ yrs and still works like they are brand new. Would recommend. and a lot cheaper than most.
5	1380499200	Don't be alarmed by the price tag on these headphones. They put out some good quality sound for such a low priced pair of headphones. In my experience I've found that they sound better than some $100 headphones. I swear by them and use them every day. If you're even thinking about buying them, go ahead and do so. It's worth the $30.
5	1380240000	I went through many many headphones , as well as my family, I know these are no longer made, I searched and searched for them after my first pair was lost. The sound on these is freaking unbelievable...better than a 70$pair i had, better than the newer models, ...they are just simply..the best headphones EVER!
4	1379980800	Great bass, which is what I like. Only use late at night so as not to disturb the neighbors or my cat.
2	1379289600	I bought these for my daughter. They fit her well and were comfortable, but don't hold up well. The problem is that the cups break off easily and don't glue well. They might be fine for an adult who leaves the headphones in the same place, but if you travel with these or let a kid use them, they will break. I'd go with Sennheiser instead.
5	1378857600	The headphones sound good for small applications in the home for your computer or small stereo system but not for clubdjing where clear loud bass performance is needed the MDR-V700 is what i use for big applications but thease are perfect for what I need thank you very much.
5	1378684800	I bought this five years ago and put them through pretty heavy use at times, and since they were cheap headphones I wasn't particularly careful. Besides a slightly broken earpiece that was my own fault, there are no issues. The sound is solid and the headphones are comfortable. For value headphones I don't expect exceptional sound or comfort but I have been happily surprised by the durability. If you simply want cheap, solid headphones that will LAST, I highly recommend these.
3	1377475200	Sound quality is good but on my head, which I guess is a bit bigger than average, these phones are too tight.
5	1377216000	I see headphones costing more and more. Unbelievable......my criteria has been and will remain as follows "How do they sound?" ~ "How do they feel?"I have two pair because I like these so much. I write and record my own music and have tried more expensive pairs because marketing had me conditioned to believethat is how you get quality.....NOPE! At least not for me. These things are tremendous and the mix I get in the headphones is exactly what is reproducedon my higher dollars studio monitors.Couldn't be happier....if one of these pair stop working I will get another pair so I always have a backup. A word to the wise, don't buy the hype! The right headphones for youare and can ONLY be determined by you.JK. Calif
4	1377043200	If you only want to spend $30 on headphones, these are what you should get. They're not stellar, but they sound great if you're not a die-hard audiophile. They're reasonably comfortable (a little tough if you wear glasses), the cord is nice and long, and the price is certainly right.
1	1376956800	This is the 2nd time I ordered this product, and both times only one side of the headphones worked.  Burned.
5	1376524800	These are great headphones if you like to listen to music on the couch or as you fall asleep.  I have not been able to find another pair of headphones that has a cord as long as these.  Most headphones today seem designed for laptop listening with very short cords.  If you want to plug in to your amplifier and listen to your entire Cream collection while couch-surfing, these have the reach.  And, if you like to drift off to music when you go to bed, the ear pieces are light, relatively flat and un-clunky.  The V150 were unavailable for quite a while, and I'm glad that one of Amazon's vendors (in England, I believe) can now supply them.
4	1375747200	I already had this model headphones for my Yamaha YPG 625 keyboard, and they always sounded by far the best of any phones I tried with it.  But the earpieces were falling apart, so I bought another pair.  This particular set might be a bit lacking on the higher frequencies, but they're still pretty good.
5	1375315200	Exactly what I wanted. Arrived on time. I have been searching all over for the adapter that the headphones came with. I very happy about that.
4	1374969600	Sound quality was much better than expected! I thought my computer volume was lacking until I tried these. Just a warning, they get uncomfortable if you have them on longer than an hour and are very tight - width wise.
5	1374710400	These are the best headphones I can remember ever using.  they came fast, faster than I thought they would.  they are comfortable and easy to have on.
5	1374537600	I have had my headphones since around 2000, they have lasted me through highschool and continue to work to this day. The only problem that I ever had with these headphones is the ear pads have begun to break down, leaving little black flakes of possibly toxic plastic everywhere. This is years after the expected lifespan of these headphones. I could replace the earpads for $6, but  As I write this, I will be replacing these headphones with it's big brother the MDR-7506.Sony MDR-V150, you will never be forgotten.
5	1374451200	Thanks for great product, like this style and fast shipping I am glad I was able to buy a spare pair
5	1374105600	My wife offered to get me some expensive earphones for xmas but I suggested these instead (can't beat the price)...I've used them A LOT and they work great.  Good sound and good bang for the buck.
4	1373760000	Super cheap in my opinion and the sound quality is awesome. Probably not bose or sennheiser worthy but very acceptable for most music types.
1	1373414400	fause advertisement.They claim to be &#34;studio&#34; quality  B.S.I have a very old pair I bougt -SONY-MDR-55 Not over the ear and they sound SOOOOOOOOOOOOOO MUCH BETTER!I JUST WISH I COULD FIND EARPADS FOR THIS PAIR1
5	1373155200	I still have my MDR-V150 set that I purchased in 1999 and use them on a daily basis.  I have purchased other headphones and this pair has outshined them.  Great sound and noise blocking.  DURABLE is an understatement.  I have problems wearing ear buds and yes I have tried many different brands and styles.  I get headaches and ear pain from the buds.  Not a problem whatsoever with these headphones.  Long cord and perfect fit for computer and ipod.  Buy these with confidence.  I know when my set finally goes I will replace with the same exact model.
5	1372550400	These headphones are great and have full sound with plenty of high and low end. They are comfortable and fit nicely on my head. I would highly recommend these!
5	1372204800	the Sony line of products is in my opinion are the best I worked in this field for several years and for the $ you can't best them.
5	1371772800	This is the third set of these same headphones we have purchased.  Excellent clarity and very pleased with range of sound.
4	1371340800	I used them at first but found out later that I really didn't need them... They now sit in my clost.
2	1369440000	had three, all broke. not good quality, sound okay but not the quality of the product. I do like the adapter that comes with it, that is good.
5	1369094400	These last FOR ever. I wear them every day, for several hours a day for online education. They are comfortable and the sound quality is great. SUPER deal for the price.
5	1368576000	I can stand wearing earbuds. So this excellent headphone has been my daily companion for my iPods even as I updated to the latest iteration.  Fits well, excellent sound, perfect for housework while vacuuming - the sound boost is great for covering that sound.  Just what I needed and have used it for nearly four years now.
2	1367971200	The Sony V150 worked fine for about one year as I am not that fussy about sound quality.  I did not find they were too tight or heavy.  But after the first year one side of the earpiece began to fall off routinely.  Each earpiece has a sliding, friction based part that allows you to adjust for the size of your head.  However there is no way to increase the friction and after awhile it appears to weaken and the result is the earpiece slides right off the main band on headpiece. It doesn't seem to happen while it is on your head, but when  I am hanging it up or when it is just hanging on the hook.  it just becomes tedious having to put it back together all the time.
5	1367798400	its great. it fits. it arrived quickly.  it exactly as described. couldnt find in store at reasonable price.  would recommend purchasing here versus buying in store. economical and in great condition. nice and loud.
4	1367712000	This is a nice headphone don't get me wrong but  there are some things that may need fixing and that is the ear cups.  They are too small and uncomfortable to the ear.  I have to take the faux earcup part off and use them without the soft part.  Otherwise though for the price these maybe on of the best headphones you can get.
1	1367107200	These are excellent headphones, if only they weren't discontinued. I know what you're thinking, Great, someone has them in stock!! No, they don't, they're LYING to you. I know. Because I bought them and they just told me, Well, we don't have them, so we sent you the latest model. Right, in which case... DON'T SAY YOU HAVE THEM!!So don't buy them, unless you want the Sony MDR-V250 model, because that's what they're going to send you...
5	1366502400	These are very comfortable and sound very good!  I bought two pair and use them a lot.  I can watch my shows on my ipad while others watch their show on the big TV and we're still all together!
5	1366329600	I was looking to replace my Sony MDR-V150 headphones but they don't sell them anymore. The MDR- V250 set I recieved were exactly the same, except they have a volume control on the cord. I don't like the new headphones Sony is producing.
5	1365724800	Good for the price.  Good clarity.  And also a perk to have additional volume control through the headphones.  I'd recommend.
2	1365120000	Mine(MDR-V150)lasted about 5 or 6 months and the left side speaker broke off the headset and 2 months after that they are a set of speakers on a wire. I have been known to go to sleep with them on and the thin plastic that holds the speakers on is just too small for that. The sound was ok and had a nice long wire to hook on the back of the computer with still room to move 5' or so. I wouldn't pay over 15 bucks if I were to get another set of them but I'm looking for something with a lil better sound and quality.
4	1364947200	I use these on my bit music and home theater systems. Fantastic sound, fairly durable, but these are for in-home sitting use only. If you want a pair of very high sound quality phones at a reasonable price... this is it.
5	1364688000	These headphones are really great for the price. They really block out ambient noise, considering that they are nit noise cancelling. I have noise cancelling ones too, but for the price these are excellent.
2	1364256000	they already broke  and one side's volume is already diminished  that is it. cannot be used so they are really useless
5	1363824000	Light weight and they sound good. Very comfortable on the head. Like the volume control  and stereo mono switch where its located
5	1363737600	this is BY FAR the GREATEST pair of HEADPHONES money can buy. Extra long cord, over the ear (CUSHIONED), and best of all these Sony brand headphones have super duper awesome bass that don't get any of that other $&!t when it gets loud. I bought the &#34;newer&#34; version for these and they sucked beyond anything I've ever heard, it just made me cringe when I used the new pair of headphones because everything just sounded.... far-off, cheap, like wearing earbuds. But THESE..... these are a masterpiece and it is a SHAME that they don't make them anymore..... just like with Wonderballs.......
5	1363392000	Great sound, good comfort for a good price.  These aren't top of the line Sennheiser phones, but the price isn't up there either.  For general purpose sound work these are super.  The on-ear style gets uncomfortable after a few hours, but that is a rare situation for live sound recording or for P.A. system monitoring.
5	1363046400	These are excellent ear phones at a very good price.  They are sturdy and fit comfortably on the head.  The in-line volume control works well.  A good buy!
5	1362355200	after a while the plastic protectors of the foam of the earphones will wrinkle and break off but it's great. SONY always make good sound systems and that's exactly what i need for my music.
5	1362268800	These headphones are right for the price! Inexpensive, very reasonable sound. Nice features with the in-line volume control and the mono/stereo in-line switch for one-ear listening.
5	1361145600	These headphones have are the biggest bang for the buck. I have owned headphones that were 5 times more expensive that didn't sound half as good.
5	1359936000	This headset lasted me about a year....The bass is great. However if you drop it a few times or yank the chord a certain way - it'll damage the quality of the sound
5	1359244800	This was a great item. Some people might thinks otherwise. In the end it is up to you to decide.
5	1359158400	This is a fantastic of headphones , they fit great ,very comfortable , sound is amazing and clarity , overall I would definitely agree with the review named &#34;Like putting your head in a vise. After 5 minutes your ears will feel hot.
5	1359072000	The sound quality is great.  Shipment was scheduled to arrive in mid Feb.  Received 3 weeks ahead of schedule.  Price seemed fair.
4	1358812800	I have to say I have loved these headphones.  Like, a lot.  I'm no audio expert and I'm not really that fancy about my expectations for this stuff.  All I know is that they're comfortable and have a richer, fuller sound than my cheapo earbuds.So imagine my disappointment when, just under a year of use, the sound stopped working in one ear.  I tried jiggling around the jack and that worked for a week or two, but it's getting increasingly hard to find that sweet spot.  And when I do, I have to hold it there for the duration of the song/video/movie or else the sound will cut out of the left side again.  I wish there was a simpler way to fix that problem, or at least prevent it.  I don't think I've been overly rough in handling them and I mainly use them at home, so they haven't been moved too often.I'm not sure if it's worth investing in another pair because I love them so much or if I should just look for a comparable model/brand with an L-shaped jack.  Any recommendations would be much appreciated!
4	1358640000	these headphones were great quality and they worked very well in my music studio. i have since upgraded to the newer edition and they all still work the same.
4	1358121600	Just the right fit and they're great for listening to music from my desk in my cubicle at work. They work sufficiently enough to block out most noise.
4	1358121600	I purchased this headphones - I really liked the way it sounded. Its not amazing but its quite fine, considering that I paid less than  20 dollars. This was a good alternate to the ridiculous earphones (read &#34;apple&#34;) which don't even sit in my ears. The earpads are good. The wires are ridiculously long that sometimes I kept tripping over them. Once I accidentally tripped over the wire, and the ear cup broke! Then I went to amazon and ordered one more for less than 20 dollars. In three months, that one broke too. Both incidents were normal; of course, I do understand that if I hit this hard, it will break. The construction of these headphones, I feel is flimsy. I really like this and will recommend it, provide you will take care of this like a new born or dont be heartbroken if it breaks. I have moved on to Audio Technica now!
4	1357689600	I cannot say these are the best out there, the headphones broke off easily for me but the adapter was very handy since I play the piano and a digital piano. it plugged right into my digital piano so I can play without disturbing people. The headphones were good quality, just be careful with them, and pray you don't have a young child lol.
2	1357516800	The plug end shorted out after only a few months. I bought a new plug from Radio Shack and the headphones are like new again.
5	1357516800	Very good productI really liked it due to the benefits are incredibleand the price is too low. Perfect !
5	1357344000	Using these in our church for the drummer and pianist. Great ability to switch between stereo and mono since our input feed is mono to get both sides working or to turn one side off if you want to hear.
5	1357257600	This is the third pair of this type of headphone that I have owned - they're very comfortable and don't feel too heavy.
5	1357084800	When I was a teenager, I used to buy this type of headphones, but in Tijuana they run out of stock apparently. I found them on Amazon.com and I started to scream. Very good quality and very good sound. You can really enjoy music without bothering teh person aside of you. I recommend this product. Tops!!!!
5	1356912000	SUPER DUPER GREAT PRODUCT, GO FOR GOLD, YOU'RE IN IT TO WIN THIS IS IT AND DO IT WELL BUY THIS ITEM! 19 WORDS TO FILL THE REVIEW WOOT! WOOT!
4	1356739200	Smoking good sound for the price was truly amazed. The proof is in the listening. The gift was a big hit.
5	1356480000	absolutely worth the money. They are almost as good as the MDRZX100 but it's only a very slight difference. They are very nice and I use them quite a lot.
4	1356393600	cant beat the sound for the price and are very comfartable.like them much better than ear buds. stay in place what ever am doing
4	1356048000	Sony always provide good sound quality and these cans do a great job of that. I use this set as a basic studio headphone. I have a higher end set when I need to hear more detail from my compositions.
5	1355616000	I've had these headphones for a few years and they work just great! They are reasonably priced and I love the sound they produce.  They fit perfectly.
5	1354924800	I have two of these headphones now (added a second). I love them. Great sound, easy wear.Most of all, I bought them because they are comfortable on my kids' heads too (5 and 7 year olds). They are connected to the digital piano so both of them can wear them while practicing.
1	1354752000	The quality is extremely poor. I've used it for 2 months now, the thin black coating over the ear paddings is peeling off and i find myself taking the pieces out of my ears frequently, it broke in two places - i have scotch tape wrapped around it.
2	1354579200	The only good thing I can say about these headphones is that they have a nice, clear bass. However, they have almost no treble and the mid-range is questionable. Sony should not be selling these as "monitors." They don't come even close. They also squeeze the user's head. My head is on the smaller side, however they give me a headache within a minute of putting them on.
4	1354406400	These are portable and comfortable, but as far as sound goes, they are hardly worth $32. I compared them to the Sony MDR7502's, which were easily worth the extra $20. At the right volume for working in a cafe, the middle range of freq was garbled and unsettling. If you like definition between the highs, mids, and lows, these won't satisfy.
1	1353974400	All I can honestly say about these "TIN" cans is that they have a built in "Space-Time Wormhole Portal" !!!!!All my beautiful pristine audio tracks played through these Vice-Clamps were instantly transported back through time to the year of our Lord "Nineteen Hunderd and Eighy-One and their "Ultra-Modern" recording equipment and techniques... "HIGHLY Oxidized Magnetic Reel to Reel Tape--Obviously containing residual cocaine and marijuana resins and quite possibly(by the sound)Bong water as well"!!!!!!  Only after finally using my dad's "Collector's Edition" Elvis Presley Shoe-Horn/Back-Scratcher was I able to forcibly pry these puppies Offa' Me Noggin' and get a couple of Extra Strength Tylenol down my neck to alleviate some of the pain... Now I have a Semi-permanant FLOCK OF SEAGULLS Hairdoo that will require extensive Hot Oil treatments to straighten out..... THANKS ALOT SONY!!!! By the way.....yer' headphones SUCK!!!!
3	1353110400	Yes, these sound great, but there's no point at all of having them if you can't wear them for more than 10 minutes. They're really uncomfortable and very tight.Wouldn't recommend them.
2	1353024000	Purchased in January 2011. Plug snapped off wire in Nov 2012.  Could have been mishandled by my kids. Could be poorly built in that the 1/4" phone plug gives enough leverage to easily snap off the miniplug. Worked well while it lasted.
5	1352851200	These headphones are seriously some of the best I've ever owned.Coming from a person who is almost always wearing headphones or earbuds, is generally pretty rough on said headphones/earbuds (I wear them walking around, to class, at home, in the car, on the bus, at the airport, and everywhere else, so they get caught everywhere, yanked, pulled, caught in the wheels of chairs, dropped, stepped on, smashed, folded, etc.)these headphones have lasted me the longest out of any pair of headphones OR earbuds I've ever had.  I've had them for 2-3 years now, so they've *by far* outlasted any other pair I've ever had (which usually have a life of 6 months or so.)  The sound quality is great (not tinny or muffled/"can"ny) and not once have I heard any crackling or sound cutting out in one ear or the other (usually the first sign of malfunction or impending death of my other headphones).  My only warning would be that the cord is really long, which makes walking around with them in sort of awkward, but I generally use mine with my computer anyway, so I like that I can roll around and get things without worrying about stretching the cord.Anyway, these are really well-made, have great sound quality, and will stand up to heavy everyday use!
2	1352851200	I bought these to replace my old, warn-out MDR-V150s that I have had for years (5+). I guess I shouldn't be surprised, but the quality difference in sound and build is shocking. The old V150s were rich in bass and built like tanks. The new ones are very hard and plastic-like. They were also really tight on the head/ears (not in a good way). These are getting sent back. I guess I'm back on the hunt for a good pair of headphones. For the price, I suppose they are not terrible, but I'm comparing it with its old self.
5	1352678400	These are, by far, my favorite set of heavy-duty headphones ever. Comfortable to wear; I don't find it tight at all, and I am particular about this aspect. Cushions are comfortable and provided decent noise-cancelling. Generous cord length. Buying my third set now, replacing my old pair because the ear cushion fabric has frayed to the point it is flaking...but this is after 5+ years of use, so I've more than gotten my money's worth. And after 5+ years, sound quality is still just as great as the day I bought them. Highly recommended.
5	1352505600	I got these over 5 years ago and I still have them. They work great. There is now a little wear on the headphones, but that is expected.
5	1352246400	Ok, I hate anything Sony. I have never forgiven them for starting DRM in the first place. I remember how they did it surreptiously. Real sneaky like with nobody knowing. But I bought these way before DRM. I prety much hated them. That is before I bought a XONAR sound card and plugged these in to see what these things sound like with it. Ok, so they rock. That don't mean I'm not still boycotting Sony, but they do rock. You will experience some clipping if you listen to your music at extreme volume levels with headphones like I do. But then again, I don't recommend you do what I do.
5	1351728000	Really what I wanted, good sound, good product quality. In short is perfect for my needs. Look for something like this time until I finally found it. Worth every dollar you spend on it
4	1351209600	They're decent headphones for the price. Keep in mind that they are easily breakable over time if you aren't careful. If you are an average person who watches movies or listens to music, these are your friend.
5	1351123200	Bought a pair of these almost 3 years ago. They are still in almost perfect condition. This was the first good quality headphones I bought, and since then I felt in love with hifi speakers of all types. Today, I own different brands, and I can tell these Sony are at the same level in sound quality than other way more expensive headphones.Very pleased!Ive seen these headphones in radio stations, they are Monitor headphones, built with good materials.If you want to buy music to our ears, and not apparel (like extremely overprized Beats by DrDre) these are for you!
1	1350950400	I bought this sony headphones V150 and other similarly priced sony headphone based on my daughter's experience with sony MDR V6 headphone. I will not comment or give my opinion on quality of the sound reproduction as it differs from one person to other person's liking. So, I will talk about the construction quality. This one has bad,bad plastic construction quality. The small plastic piece that holds two pieces, one plastic piece that slides in/out for the length adjustment inside the over head piece breaks very easy. When one try to take off headphone from over ear piece pulling away from ear than the small plastic piece/retainer snap/breaks. Now, this head phone is useless unless you hold those two pieces with some clip. Believe me. with small tension of pulling ear piece to remove headphone away does break this plastic retainer. Because of this I bought Panasonic RP-HTX7 Stereo Headphones. Panasonic one has metal slider piece so never have to worry bout breaking.
3	1350777600	These are not bad headphones.  For around $20 it'd be hard to find anything better.  One complaint is the clamping pressure is quite high.  Other than that, nothing special, but no complaints.
2	1350432000	I got these over a year ago at Walmart for $20 after my earbuds kept having their cord snapped and I figured they could cover my ears on those cold winter days while commuting. Long story short: they are and sound like $20 Walmart headphones. If you like higher quality sound, no need to read any further.Construction:Initially they were pretty tight around the head and really pressed on my ears, borderline discomfort after awhile. But after a month or so, they stretched out and now they fit alright. The frame and joints are all plastic and very noisy when you touch your headphones or try to adjust on your head, there is a noisy creaking and squealing of plastic rubbing on plastic. WD40 helped it a tad. The cord is definitely not sound isolating, as you can hear every time it touches or rubs against your clothes. These were clearly not made for portable devices because you could wrap the cord around your foot and still keep the iPod in your breast pocket while listening - the cord is really that long!Noise:These are not closed back design, so you get a hefty dose of outside noise. Listening to these while walking in noisy downtown is not a joy, they almost seem to amplify specific sounds while muffling other frequencies. There is minimal sound leakage, though, from the headphones outwardSound:Everyone has different taste and expectations. With these cans, you get what you pay for. I usually listen to Sennheiser HD570 or AKG Q460. The Sennheisers are in particular known for their almost overpowering treble, so listening to the Sony cans, I feel like they are missing something:Bass is there, but not really tight or thumpy. Quite muddy. Mids are very prominent. Treble is somewhat weak at the lower end and the high trebles are nearly non existent.Sound stage is not particularly wide nor forthcoming. There is not too much color to these cans, but what they really lack is detail and clarity. Instruments in complex records tend to just blend together (especially, if you like classical music, you will feel it). A good amp makes some difference, but not by much. They sound much worse when hooked up to an iPod directly.Impression:If you are used to iPod's bundled ear buds, you will find these OKIf you are used to something like Koss Porta Pro's (which are awful looking awesome sounding cans), you will find these Sony's weakIf you are used to circumaural AKG, Beyerdynamic or Grado's, you will find these atrocious.I use these Sony's mainly for listening to audiobooks.Suggestion:If you don't want to spend more than $20 and sound is not an issue to you, go for these, they will serve you well and last at least a year.If you could spare $50 or more, forget about these and look into Grado SR80 (on sale) or AudioTechnica's M50's or M35'sI'm growing more and more fond of AKG's Q460 Quincy Jones which are in the same ballpark as the Grado's. Not strong in treble, but pleasantly colored sound with good tight bass and wonderful clarity and detail, even straight from iPod, without amping them up. Very comfortable, very good noise isolation on these supra aural cans.
5	1349395200	ENGLISH  THIS HEADPHONES ARE AMAZING I'M NOT AN EXPERT IN HEADPHONES BUT IF YOU BUY THIS PRODUCT YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED THIS HEADPHONES HAVE A GOOD BASS, I LISTEN DANCE,TECHNO,HAUSE,ELECTRO,AND ROCK AND WHEN I LISTEN MY MUSIC IT FEELS GOOD I SPEND $25.00 DOLLARS ON THIS HEADPHONES SO IS ALL UP TO YOU IF YOU WANT TO GIVE A CHANCE TO THIS PRODUCT HAVE A GOOD DAY.  .  ESPA&Ntilde;OL  ESTOS AUDIFONOS SON INCREIBLES NO SOY UN EXPERTO EN AUDIFONOS, PERO SI COMPRAS ESTE PRODUCTO NO TE ARREPENTIRAS, LOS AUDIFONOS TIENEN UN BUEN BAJO YO ESCUCHO MUSICA DANCE,TECNO,HAUSE,ELECTRO,Y ROCK,CUANDO ESCHUCHO MI MUSICA SE ESCUCHA MUY BIEN,PERO TODO DEPENDE DE TI SI LES QUIERES DAR UNA OPORTUNIDAD YO GASTE $25.00 DOLARES EN ESTE PRODUCTO ADIOS Y TEN UN BUEN DIA.
3	1349136000	I bought these about 2 years ago for my work computer.  They work fine for that but my opinion is that the bass overwhelms the rest of the sound range.  Some would like that, I don't. I actually prefer a cheap Phillips headset from target (about $8-9) because they sound more natural. Since these are big and bulky, you'd be better off spending a lot more to get better quality (like $60-70). The MDR-v150 leaves me non-plused, just nothing exciting about them other than they cover your ears.  The better models are Sony MDR-v6, Grado s-60i, etc.
5	1349136000	I use these headphones in a cubicle.I like the fact that they reach 6 feet and I have freedom of movement when at work.The sound is awesome........rich clear and so very stereo. The price is affordable.....in fact, this is going to be my second pair.  One for work and one for everywhere else.I like the heavy cord as sometimes I run over it with my chair and it doesnt hurt them.I dont need to turn up the sound high, as the sound is good and blocks outside noise.The head phones fit snug against my ears........not pressing.  I wear them for 9-10 hours a day with no problems.they dont fall off all the times like ear buds.These are perfect for all my needs!I have never heard a pair of headphones I like better then these, no matter what price!
5	1349049600	I bought a pair for twenty bones circa 2004, and they have endured. They still have great sound, and I prefer them over iPod headphones whenever i'm around the house or in the office. Comfortable, won't break the bank, and they sound nice!In fact, i believe in these headphones so much, i'm going to share a little anecdote with you. I let a fraternity brother who was undependable at best borrow these for a month or two, and he returned them with a BENT HEADPHONE JACK. How in god's name he managed that i'll never know. I went to radioshack, bought a new headphone jack cable, chopped off the old one, soldered it on, and wrapped it up in electrical tape. still works like a champ. You think you need Dre's, but you don't. Save yourself two franklin faces and spend 'em on a massage, oil change, and groceries for the week. I'm out.
5	1348358400	I work as a FOH (Front of House) audio engineer from time to time (the guy who sits at the mixer at a concert), and I've used these for lots of those gigs. (I've had my old pair for over 12 years, and just got another pair, for my Blu-ray player in the bedroom.) They aren't bad even at high volume events (115+ dB); but, for medium volume venues (90-100dB, like at a loud worship conference, or a semi-loud bar band), I'd put these up against almost any phones in the $100+ range. For listening at home, to Blu-ray or high-quality stereo, they're at a value well above their cost! They provide GOOD bass response, very clear mids and highs (almost as good as most Sennheiser headphones).They even have an adaptor (which screws on), to go from 3.5mm (cellphone and MP3) to 1/4" (the old standard for stereo systems), so you can plug them into almost any equipment (you'll need another adapter for Apple phones).
2	1347148800	I purchased a new pair from best buy and I rarely used them. I find out that the plastic covering on the ear padding is peeling off into my ear. So my face is covered in black pieces of plastic. I had hardly even used them. On that point, it makes them unusable unless you're going to shower right after or risk walking around with black pieces of plastic all over your face. Right now I'm trying to pick off all the outer coating so I can finally use them.
1	1346025600	I can't believe most of the reviews here. These are some of the worst headphones I've ever had. You can't hear the bass, the highs will soon ruin your hearing, the plastic headset is too uncomfortable, the cable is too long. This product is really bad, even for the low price. This brand is overrated.
4	1345334400	Sony did a great job on these for the price.  The sound is pretty good just lacking in the bass department.
3	1344729600	I bought these 3 years ago. Sound is decent, but not great. I'd say sound is somewhere around average. There are two mechanical problems with the head phones. The "hairband" part dislodges itself from the actual speakers. That's one. The other is that th plastic "film" that overlays the foam which wraps your ears disintegrates after 1-2 years of frequent use. And, the little bits and pieces go into your ears and onto your face making you look silly. For its price, I thin it's mediocre value. However, in this cynical profit-oriented world I think you'r epretty well off buying a pair. So long as you're not an audiophile.
5	1344211200	I haved used Sony MDR-V150 Monitor Series Headphones for a couple of months and find these to be a great pair of headphones for editing and listening to my music.I gave these Sony MDR-V150 Monitor Series Headphones  a five star rating becuase they meet the quality level for my video and audio editing.Sony MDR-V150 Monitor Series Headphones
2	1343520000	I purchased these about a year ago, and yes they sound really great. Although there is one major drawback. I believe that an "Asian" developed them, because they are the most "uncomfortable" headphones I've ever used in my life. An asian with a considerably smaller head, because these feel like a VISE around your ears. Did I mention that they will give you one heck of a "headache" too? I'm trying to warn anyone to not purchase these since there are many more alternatives out there. And I by no means have an oversized head! Check out my "other" reviews, since I feel like I'm a very fair man. I just don't want anyone else to make a poor purchase one these!
3	1342137600	I had these headphones for about 14 months and really enjoyed them. The sound quality is really good for the price youre paying. Nice Bass decent noise cancellation but not high quality the music really drowns out most outside noises if you turn them up. They do press down on your ears a bit but nothing too bad. THE CORD IS VERY LONG this is good if you are using them in a studio but for those who are not it can become very annoying after awhile. This also leads to a short in the cord that stops the sound from coming through clearly out of both sides. Overall 3 stars i think for the price you are getting a nice product good job sony
5	1340928000	Great sound and one of the most durable headphones ive ever owned. I have put these things through the gauntlet and still can't kill them! The sound is very good not great but for the price you can't beat it.
5	1339459200	09-16-09 was when I got my set. I really am not sure where these horrible reviews are coming from. I had a *slight* problem with the headphones being tight in the beginning, but after roughly a month they stretched out beautifully.I also fail to understand these reviewers who swear they treat these phones like glass, yet they break within a week. I have had these since '09, yet as of 6/13/12, they still work perfectly, with the sole fault being the left cup broke off its plastic swivel piece.  And THAT only happened because while in the hospital, I fell asleep and rolled on them. In three years, I've used them four hours a day,  three times a week at dialysis, all night every night while I sleep. They have been stuffed in dialysis hags, hospital bags, purses,  and Kindle cases. They've been chewed on by the cat, manhandled by rambunctious kids under five, and,  because of the long cord and my clumsiness, yanked, pulled, and dropped out of numerous electronic devices. And still worked wonderfully, with darn good sound and excellent highs, lows, and great bass.These are the best pair I have ever owned and are only being replaced because I'm tired of taping up my current set. :-D
3	1338768000	> treble is flat> mid-range merges with the low ends into a very muddy and vague bass> Drivers are fairly small so the low end in itself is pretty much nonexistent.I'd say the one thing these headphones lack is definition. I've been spoiled with high end audio equipment, but these headphones have a tendency to merge all sound ranges into a flat non-descript kind of mess. A shame as they look awesome, have good build quality and feel pretty snug on the head without being too large.At 13.99 from Argos though, they make a great set of backup headphones / kids headphones / headphones to use and not worry too much about :-)
4	1337644800	I am a musician and a music fan. I spend usually around 5-6 hours every day with some sort of headphones on and it's usually these.I bought mine from WalMart about 7-8 years ago and I have had no problems with them. Ever.They have a nice wide frequency response and sound nice and clean. I use them for rehearsal, for tracking, just about everything really. I don't mix on them, but I do use them in my mixing process. It's a good reference point to fall back to, much like many people will reference a standard stereo system, hi-fi, iPod, and car audio systems during a mixing session.My main use for these is for rehearsal though and I find they work perfectly for that.  I just plug them into my mix headphone ur and can rehearse as I would play live, but with killer sound right into my brain!I have often thought about upgrading to much more expensive headphones, but for my purposes, I don't really see the point. These continue to provide hassle free service day after day.I will note that after several hours of continual use, they can be uncomfortable with eye glasses.it is not really the fault of the headphones, but more the design of the frames of certain glasses. I have some that I don't even feel with the headphones on, but some others feel a bit hard after a while. Just sort of like getting poked. But it is not a problem if you remember to take frequent breaks, or just remove your glasses is possible.I used to think that I needed to get the most expensive and highest rated headphones, but I think your better off doing that with Studio Monitors.If the ear ups folded flat it would be killer for transport, but for $20 what can you really argue about?
1	1337558400	I got these as a X'mas gift  to replace a failed set of Apple ear buds  I'd tell you a lot about the quality of the sound but as of the second week I owned them the cheap  plastic supporting the can on the left side failed so the ear piece now will not stay where it belongs.  If I constantly hold it ( Like the announcer Gary Owens from Laugh in days )  then it worksI was suckered in by the cost but you truly get what you pay for.  read Ken Rockwell's blog on headphones  then spend about $100.  I'll leave it at thatlater
5	1336953600	I was in my favorite store today, and could not resist buying these headphones, because....I know the product and the manufacturer.  I checked them out in the store - solid / tight frame, earcups intact, both channels fully functional, no cutting out when I jiggled the cord or its 3.5mm connector.  And now I'm listening to music I use for critical listening;  they effortlessly pass the test - Copeland's Fanfare for the Common Man, Bob James' Ashanti, James Taylor's Gaia - all the challenging passages come through just like they do when I'm listening with my other Sony's, the classic MDR-V6's. Bottom line, these V150 pups flat-out sing/perform/put out. Now, do you want them?  Better hustle, as of this date, these are no longer in production, but are still available, at 'premium' mark-ups beyond their ~ $20 MSRP.If you think you'd be embarrassed about using GREAT 'phones you can get for ~ $30, go buy Sony's MDR-V6, which have been in production since 1980-something.  Either way, you can feel confident you know a good thing.Oh. A little about where I got my V150's: My fav thrift store.  I've no idea how long they've been in service.  All I care about is their solid condition and how they sound...see above.  Oh.  What did I pay for them?  $0.75 with the 25% off coupon.  Eat your heart out......
5	1335744000	Love these headphones, bought a pair bout a year ago when I was trucking cross country and they worked awesome untill today when I accidentally sat on them and broke them. I'm dissapointed at this price, I bought them for 20$ at a truck stop, and here its twice as much. I'm not Sure if I want to pay double for something I already have.
1	1335312000	I was very pleased with these headphones initially - they are comfortable and have great sound for the price. However, after less than a year of ownership and light use, the right earcup broke. The part that prevents it from bending out to the side no longer works, so the headphones won't sit on my head properly. The right one wants to turn so that it is horizontal rather than up against my head. I haven't found an easy way to fix them. Unfortunately, I am now shopping for headphones again.
2	1335139200	I must agree with other reviewers - I cannot keep these phones on long before they start to press in on my ears, and when I remove them, I feel as if a great weight has been removed from my head.Also, in the area where the ear cup is attached to the frame, there is a little pin that keeps the cup from swinging back and forth. In effect, it makes the cup-frame segment rigid, and moves the flexibility to the brace that goes over the top of the head. That's why some users feel the tightness in the ears.When the pin that holds the cup in place breaks off, typically due to too much stress, the cup swings freely... which means it's no longer flush with your head when you wear it... which means it's now useless.Honestly, I have no idea how design or engineering approve construction like this. That a tiny 5c pin in a strategic place can ruin a $40 pair of headphones is simply unfathomable.I give it 2* - would be more but now I have to go buy another. Or maybe one that is better built.
4	1334275200	I wasn't expecting a long cord. The bass was as good or better than my Philips O'neil The Stretch. The cord is made of a sticky material that when it drags on the floor it gets dirty
2	1332720000	I received Sony MDR-V150 headphones as a gift, and the sound quality is fantastic.  So why don't I like them?  Because they're designed to be useless & unrepairable when a small plastic tab is broken off.  I did not abuse them, and must have applied a little too much pressure in a certain way so as to break the tiny plastic tab.  The next time I went to use them, the left earpiece would not stay in place, rendering them useless.  I'm so very disappointed that SONY would design something so easily broken, and unrepairable.
5	1332633600	I have been using these headphones for the last 14 years.  They are an incredible value with stellar sound.  Yes they can break sometimes, but any pair of headphones can, and I'd rather break a 30 dolar pair than a 300 dollar pair.  Also I've compared these headphones against hi-fi sound systems and top of the line headphones, both mixing and listening ones.  I have never heard anything on the most expensive, that I couldn't here with these beauties.  I would stake my life on the quality of this purchase.  You'll get a great value and amazing sound!
5	1332115200	Given that these headphones are not that expensive (didn't want to spend too much as they are for my teens' keyboard and they don't take care of anything), the sound quality is very good, and the value for the money is superb.
2	1331942400	The technical specs have no weight on real world usage. I was drawn by the 5 star reviews. Sadly, it was somebody's word and nothing more. Sony used to have such great products (vhs players, cd players, headphones that came with the walkmans, etc), and I tried to "stick with it", but I was just couldn't take it anymore. These headphones were initially uncomfortable and after so many months of usage were still uncomfortable. I am not kidding, my ears still hurt when I have them on. I guess those so-called "professionals" don't include an average non-audiophiles. Then in the product description Sony says, "The headphones only allow a limited amount of ambient noise to enter the ear canal..." I call BS. Because when I'm in the office, I can still hear EVERYTHING when I have them on and my music a normal volume. Then I have to turn up the volume. Even at a higher volume, I can still hear outside ambient noises, and if I listen to music for a long time it will becomes NSFW.Is it just me or am I not sophisticated or professional enough? I used to love Sony's products, but I am having my doubts. I can understand that if I want to get a good product, I'm going to have to spend a little "extra". It shouldn't have to be that way. Good products at a fair reasonable price is still a good product. This product I am sad to say will be given to my son; he's more professional than I am.
4	1329868800	I like these headphones. They are great for their price. The sound range is good and they don't hurt your ears.
3	1329436800	I bought these headphones on Amazon about 11 months ago, and use them a few times a week. I paid more than normal, as I was tired of the cheaper headphones breaking from use. Well, 11 months later these are breaking, right where they extend on the one side. Not too happy about it, as I paid more hoping they would hold up better. I already ordered new headphones to replace them and went cheaper. If they are only going to last close to a year before they break, I may as well not invest much money in them for what I use them for. I have been happy with the sound quality, but not happy with how they hold up under not that frequent of use.
3	1328832000	Let me say right off that I am not one of those guys who can speak the tech jargon about speakers and headphones. I am just the average guy using some inexpensive headphones to listen to stuff on my computer so my kids don't hear or so I don't hear my kids.I had these for maybe two years before they broke. The reason they broke likely has more to do with my wife and kids than Sony's workmanship. I treated my headphones with care. The rest of my family couldn't be bothered with caring. I found them on the floor many times. So, they may have lasted for many years longer if not for them, who knows?My biggest complaint about the product is that they became uncomfortable to me after wearing them for 30 minutes or so. I wear glasses and the headphones put pressure on my earlobes where my glasses touched them. Another thing I didn't like was how long the cord was. 6 feet 8 inches?! Really, who needs this? It was a minor pain and I kept the excess bundled up with a twist tie or something. Otherwise, they sounded fine to me. Regarding headphones in general, it seems to me there is little middle ground between products that cost $20-$30 and those costing $100 and up. I don't need the best of the best, premium phones but I might pay more than $20 to get something more durable and comfortable. I just bought a replacement pair of headphones (Sony MDR-ZX100) and they seem very similar to these. So far, I would rate them about the same.
5	1328659200	I bought this model(at a wal-mart) over 9 years ago for daily work headphones.  They followed me through 4 jobs, all of which allowed headphones.  They finally just died(halfway) yesterday.  The right speaker was cutting out due to a short that developed, probably due to me reaching the end of my cord one to many times.  Durable, dependable and decent sounding headphones that could end up costing you $2 per year to use over 200 days a year and several hours per day.I replaced them with another pair, see you in 2021.
1	1328313600	These headphones are cheap plastic, too tight, uncomfortable and the sound quality is terrible. Yes, they were only $20, but there must be better options for this price. They are NOT studio quality "Monitor" headphones. The one good thing is that the plug is small and fits an iPhone in a case or bumper. Get something else.
5	1328227200	Theese are the best headphones for the price.They are the cheapest headphones that are good enough to be used in an audio studio.Also, the cord cable is long enough. 2 meters.
5	1327795200	When I first put these on, I thought they were going to get intolerably uncomfortable very quickly.  However, after 2 hours they felt more comfortable then when I put them on.  Apparently the cup padding settles as it's pressed against your ears which also relaxes the tension of the headband a little.The sound - great!  The vocals sound nice and crisp, the bass doesn't sound like a thumping subwoofer, but it's not missing at all and doesn't sound muddy.  I listened to Frank Tovey, Bradley's Circus, The Stones Satanic Majesties Request, Rachel Barton Pine's Instrument Of The Devil.  Some assorted world music on my android phone.  Nothing sounded disappointing, though the Stones could have used a bit more volume from my on board PC audio chipset.  No issue there using them with my audio receiver, though. Plugging it into my EVO 4G phone nearly blew my eardrums out!  I guess my phone has a lot more volume output then my PC.All in all, the best 22 bucks I've spent in a long time!  Makes me feel like trying out a more expensive pair of Sony headphones as well.  :)
5	1327622400	These headphones are the most comfortable and best sounding headphone ever!  Much better than the more expensive headphones that I tried.  The fit is like they were made especially for me! Love them!
4	1327536000	Yes, 15 years!! over that time, I've had to replace the ear cups (there are cheap online) and I've had a crack in the headband (fixed with glue). I think when I bough these I paid twice as much. They are good sounding, but a bit light on the bass. I like the extra long cord. Overall, I can't complain. I think I will use them until they completely fall apart.
5	1327363200	For the longest time I was using earbuds, which work well. However, I am not a huge fan of the earbuds and I happened to find a pair of these Sony MDR-V150's in my closet. I tried them out and I really loved the sound. I'm not a headphone expert or anything, but I'd say the sound on these headphones is very clear. I also liked how comfortable they are. Because I wear glasses, most traditional style headphones are irritating because they are tight and uncomfortable. These headphones aren't too tight and they fit pretty well. With other headphones Ive noticed the foam on the ear pieces isn't very comfortable, which is just another reason why I love these headphones. Unfortunately my roommate borrowed them and broke them. So I bought the same pair and they came relatively quick for ordering them around the holidays. I took them out of their brand new packaging and tried them out and they worked great. For around $20 you can't beat this deal.
5	1326931200	It's a shame Sony discontinued this model, I can't speak for the newer model, and frankly, when my last pair finally crapped out, I bought another pair of these from a seller who still had them new. They sound incredible for such a cheap pair of headphones. Everybody should own a pair.
5	1326585600	I was just sitting here, listening to a really great playlist and thinking I should review these awesome headphones. I've had them for a while, and they still sound fantastic. I use them daily at my computer, but sometimes when I'm traveling with an ipod or my phone, I bring them if I have a big enough bag with me.  I prefer them so much over my earbuds. The sound on them is rich without being overbearingly bassy, so the sound is full and not kind of shrill like on earbuds.  I would definitely recommend these, and the price isn't too bad at all!
2	1326067200	It sounds really good but it's really uncomfortable and not durable at all. I tried to bend it gently so it would fit better, and due to a design flaw on the side the headphones were permanently damaged.
4	1324598400	I've been using these headphones for years and I love them. I don't know anything about sound specs, but what I do know is that I like wearing these more than ear buds because they're more comfortable and don't hurt your ears as much.As for people complaining about how tight they are, it will go away. My last pair was so loose from wear it barely stayed on when I would exercise with them. If you feel you need it a bit looser, just try pulling (gently!!!) the earphones apart a little bit and that might loosen it up. But overall you'll get used to how tight it is, and by that time it will be more comfortable.Another thing I like about these is that the cord is long. I jump on the trampoline with mine and to have the cord long is great because it eliminates any pull from the cords on the headphones, which can create external sounds and damage the wires.However, after many pairs of these I've noticed they break in three different ways (depending on how you use them). One way is one side goes out. If you're okay with listening with just your right ear, then go ahead. This can happen within a period of weeks to months or years. Another thing is that the area next to the plugin sometimes goes out too, meaning that if you move any part of the cord at all the sound goes out.My last complaint and by far the biggest is that the plastic 'bridge' that connects the earphone to the headband (right between the semi-circle of plastic that allows the earphone to hang free and the headband) is very weak. I've had a number of these break right there, and TRUST ME, it is !impossible! to glue, tape, or put it back together.But even with these downsides I still feel it's worth the investment, especially if you want something to stay on your head while you're exercising.
5	1324512000	I will admit, I am sometimes a little rough with my audio equipment. Consequently, I've gone through several sets of cheap headphones. One thing or another will break, and I'm off to the store to get another set. I've even tried the famous KOSS KSC 75's, but both pairs broke. This time, I was at a discount store, and I saw these headphones for a pretty good price, so I decided to give them a shot.As far as durability goes, they definitely pass the test. I throw them in my backpack all the time, and nothing has ever broken on them. Both channels work perfectly, and they still sound good. For $20 headphones, they really perform. Everything sounds even, the highs aren't shrill (a little bit out of the box, but break them in, and they are much better), and there is plenty of bass. For the most part, the sound is fairly mellow, and for what it is, the sound reproduction is accurate. They don't hold a candle to my Sennheiser HD 555's, but for something a fifth of the price, I certainly don't expect that.For headphones on the go, they do a great job.
5	1324339200	My most favorite set of headphones EVER! This set sounds great, and has for years, durable enough to play lots of Tool, really loud.... impressive. I don't know any tech specs, but I was always satisfied with the volume and range of these headphones.The heagear is a comfortable design- lightweight, easy on the noggin, with lots of room to adjust. To be honest, I don't wear this pair out of the house, they're not the sexiest things ever, but that's not why. I simply prefer earbuds in public... don't most of us?These were also at a cost of, when I bought them 4 years ago, $25- that's really tremendous value for the use I got out of them.One thing that sets this set apart, is the really long cord. I love that your ipod doesn't need to be 'on' you at all times, this cord has alot of dangle room, and I like that as much as I dislike that. If I'm going anywhere fast, and I haven't secured this cord, it gets caught on things, and yanks it out of the jack... I'd call that user error, and I think the cord is more convienient for other usage reasons. That brings me to why my first pair needed replacing. The cord, right at the connector jack had worn out and was beginning to cut out the sound. When they wore out I bought a few replacements, both not as good as my last pair, the Sony MDR-V150. So, I had to go looking for these.... I found the exact replacement here about 6 months ago, and to be sure, I bought 2 pair- for when the next set eventually wears out.I highly recommend this set of 'over the ear' headphones, invest while you can still find them.
1	1324080000	The cheap plastic side bracket breaks easily and Sony doesn't provide a replacement, rendering these useless.  You'd think, given a quick Google search shows this is a common problem, that Sony would sell a cheap replacement for this flawed design issue. Nope.  Last pair of headphones I buy from them.  Sennheiser from now on.
5	1323907200	These headphones sound decent, they are definitely worth it for the price. I usually walk home from school every day and these headphones are great for blocking out some noise, so I'm still alert and not lost in music, which is safer, I suppose. The sound is great with all genres of music, I have to mention, because other headphones I've owned sound good with only certain genres of music. For instance, I transitioned from Bob Dylan to Led Zeppelin with the EQ off, and the sound quality was still the same. The headphones are a little tight, but it's not a big problem. I have to take my earrings out to wear these because the headphones are somewhat uncomfortable to wear with earrings.All in all, I'd say get these headphones, they're a great price for what they offer.Peace and Music.
5	1323734400	amazing for the price range these are under. The quality is far better than I expected. I suggest everyone in the world buys them
5	1323216000	I'm a fan of these headphones.  Not to complain about the miracle of MP3 music, but it does sound squashed to someone who grew up with records and the big rich sound of home stereo speakers (what we flaunted before we became high-def flat screen and fancy phone showoffs!).  Earbuds make matters worse: like drinking out of a cocktail stirrer--which is possible, but why do it if you don't have to? Besides the improvement in the sound with these headphones, and the ability to turn down the volume and yet hear more of the music, they are comfortable--softly padded, and you don't have to jam them into the ear. I run in them, sporting a Mickey Mouse meets Dork look, but happy. The long cord is an asset: I don't accidentally pull the cord free of the IPod as I run, which happens to me with earbuds. They've proven durable, too--earbuds start rattling & buzzing before long.
4	1323129600	Can't beat it for the price. I mean for 20 bucks they sound great, they are tight if you wear them on top of a hat, but on your head they are pretty comfy. Sound sounds natural, bass is decent, trebble is decent. I listen to mostly hip-hop so I would have liked more bass but it still sounds good. Only thing I dislike about these headphones is the long cord. I use these mostly when I go out, so yeah these would make excellent headphones if you use them on the computer.
5	1322697600	I  am surprised that headphones exist priced at $60+ and that people even buy them, when there are great headphones for considerably less, such as this one. I was looking into over-ear headphones because earbuds all seemed to hurt my ears, and this fulfilled all my needs. It fits very comfortably, and I was initially worried I would not find something for my petite head. It adjusts to fit larger heads too. The cushioning is very comfortable, and in fact . . . sometimes I wear the headphones when I am not listening to anything because I enjoy the sensation of wearing them and they keep my ears warm! They also stay firmly in place, I haven't had any trouble with them slipping off, and the cushioning hasn't flattened or started to tear off either, like you will see with poor-quality sets.The sound quality is fantastic I must say. Something about the sound in all the earbuds I've used (or maybe it was the way they are positioned inside the ear) hurt my ears and I could not listen for  very long. With these headphones I can listen to music turned up HIGH for hours and my ears don't pain me like they used to. The sound quality is verdant and clear, no annoying tinniness to high notes, deep notes sound rich, and the bass suits me fine.I took these headphone with me when I left for college and bought another pair for my sister because she missed having them around, and recommended them to another friend who is very pleased with the purchase as well. My sister's pair look a little different (the cushioning seems to be covered in a different material and seems to be sewn in differently too) but they don't feel any different once worn and the sound quality is the same,
4	1322265600	I bought these for $9.99 at TJMaxx so I wasn't expecting much, just needed a quick replacement. I was really surprised at how good they are, much better than the buds I had before. I think at $25 you are getting what you pay for - good earphones at a good price. They fit tightly but I assume they are meant to as they are well padded. They can cause sore ears after using them for a long period of time, it's only noticeable for a moment after taking the off.
5	1321833600	I had bought a pair of these headphones about 6 months ago, They were great the sound was awesome, very little outside noise, no hissing or static, They come with what i believe is a 18 gauge wire to the headphones, Anyone who has ever had to wear headphones can appreciate that, You just don't find this quality with cheaper headphones, I normally use mine for when I'm playing guitar and i don't want the neighbors at my door with pitchforks telling me to be quite, Well after about 2 weeks of owning them, I had committed one of my rules (always unplug something when not using it) I came around the corner and caught the 1/4" plug and ripped the cord out of my amp, down passed where it goes from 3.5 to 1/4", For some reason i can't get them to work anymore, I tried to replace the plug with a number of them that i had lying around with no luck, So i just decided to just buy another pair, I have had some headphones that ran up to about $300.00 that is hard to tell any difference until you crank it up, then you can tell them apart, But most definitely if you need headphones at least try these, Unless your into recording or producing, They just wont hold up to that, So i hope that this review might help someone out with making up there mind.
5	1321488000	I've been searching for a great pair of headphones ever since my dog chewed through my last pair. It came down to these or theSennheiser HD 202 II Professional Headphones (Black). My brother owned a pair of the Sennheiser ones, which I tried out. Nice quality, but I decided to go with Sony. I am so glad I did! These headphones a comfortable on my ears and head, keep the sound in very well, and have excellent sound. The bass is fantastic and higher frequencies are crystal-clear.So happy with this purchase! I'm really excited to have a durable pair of headphones again (this time, though, I'll keep them away from the dog).
3	1321488000	I have had these for years now and they have held up well during that time, even with kids using them. I use them for guitar, electric drums, piano, and casual music listening and they do the job. My only real problem with them is that they are a little small and I am not sure if I have ears that stick out or my head is too big or what, but if I use them for more than an hour my ears/head is in pain from the headphones pushing them in. If you want to spend $20+ for a pair, they aren't bad.
5	1321142400	I purchased these headphones for my 3DS and they work great. After a couple hours of gaming the headphones start to become uncomfortable but I have more important tasks than gaming an entire day. The sound is great and the price is cheap.
4	1321056000	I keep buying these!  The on-ear elements are easy to position comfortably on my head without falling off, the cable is not too long or too short, and the sound is very good--no horrible distortion in the bass range like many headphones have, generally very clear frequency response all around without having to pay several hundred dollars.  (This is based on my hearing, which I think is reasonably good, but I'm not a True Audiophile and I haven't used test equipment on it, so take that with half a grain of salt.)The main problem is that the 1/8' connector is very easy to actually break diagonally in half with extended use; you tug on it slightly and half the connector is stuck in the jack and half of it is connected to the cable.  In a fixed position this can be alleviated with an extension cord to reduce strain, but it's harder to manage that in a more mobile setting if you want to hook the headphones up to a mobile handset/tablet/laptop or such.  This has happened twice in a row now, and I'm seriously considering resoldering a new connector to my previous broken one somehow.Also, don't get the version of these with the inline volume control--the latter is poorly constructed and will cause horrible stereo imbalance (to the point of one channel or the other dropping out frequently) unless you keep it in exactly the right position all the time.
5	1320969600	These headphones are comfortable.  I first put them on to listen to music. I was amazed by the clear sound and the way I could hear some of the subtle changes in the harmonic progressions I had never heard before. I was so impressed with these headphones, several months later, I bought another pair for my studio. The cord on these is long enough to make working, while I'm turning back and forth in my office chair,very easy. No one need worry about finding my strangled, out of air,still attached to the chair, body, in these babies. thanks amazon
5	1320624000	I use these headphones in my home studio. I used to use a lot more expensive headphones, but I accidentally stepped on them and now they're gone. I replaced them with this pair, and I have found that these are every bit as good for recording and editing.
3	1320105600	Your experience may be different, I personally just don't find them that comfortable.  However, they make a great set of extra headphones and they're very durable so if you need a pair of "beaters" then these will fit the bill.
5	1319932800	This IS my favorite headphones...such awesome quality, they really dont sell them in stores no more. THE SOUND IS AMAZING FOR THE PRICE OF THIS HPHONES!RECOMMEND IT 10000% ;)
5	1319760000	This is the greatest pair of headphone thatI have ever bought. Riding the train every day in NYC could a terrible experience. Being able to cancel alll outside noice is always a plus. The bass is probably the best feature that this pair of headphone bring to the table. I bought 5 of these pairs already.
5	1319328000	I just ordered my 2nd pair of these headphones, and they are the best I've ever owned.  Yeah, you might look like a traffic controller with this bulky headset, but they are worth it if you can take looking like a dork.  The sound quality coming through is crystal clear.  Compare them to any earbud, and you'll never go back.P.S. The first pair I ordered lasted 2 years with rough and constant use.  Great product with durability.  It's a must buy!!
4	1319328000	Good value for the money. I like headphones instead of earbuds and this has a good rich sound, good fit for my (bald!!!) head, I enjoy it. Plus I take it to work and listen to seminars on my computer there- and you know another advantage- when I am wearing the headphones, my co-workers know that I am listening to something, unlike an earbud, where they often mistakenly just start talking to me. Bluetooth is worse- you don't know if people are talking to you or talking on the phone.
3	1319068800	I have a pair of these at work. I actually bought these because they were suppose to be the same model number. I'm not sure if there are two different types with similar model numbers. This review is for the pair that I have at home, which I ordered off of Amazon, a.k.a. the product you see here.I bought these because the price was not bad. It was less than $35. I just wanted some headphones which I could use to listen to lectures and occasionally TV shows. I don't listen to music often from my PC. I didn't need high quality sound buds. However, I did need something which would be able to cancel out the outside background.  These headphones do their job in that respect.The only reason why I don't give this a higher review, despite the fact that the head phones serve my purpose, is the fact that they are tight. These headphones pinch my ears. I can only wear them for maybe 1 hour at a time. My ears are always red when I take them off!  My head isn't even that big either!You can adjust the straps on these headphones to make them wider. However, there appears to be a limit to how far you can stretch them. They do fit quite snuggly. Therefore, if you have a larger shaped head, I would definitely consider some other alternatives.
3	1318636800	I liked the product since it is good quality compared to what you are paying for it. I ignored the reviews about how tight the headphones are, thinking that I am a women and my head size and my ears are small.But hear me guys, the ear-cups are tightly on my ears and they gave headache after using for 10 mins. Especially with glasses or earrings, it hurts a lot.
4	1317772800	I bought my headphones from Wal-Mart a few years back. They're pretty much bullet proof. They've been stepped on, dropped, and rustled around in my backpack in those 2 years.Recently the two brackets on the right cup snapped, dismembering that cup. Fixed easily with tape, but the cup no longer rotates and looks funny.I bought a set of Turtle Beach Earforce Z1s to replace them in duty on my computer, and they sound better than the Sonys, but they squeeze my head a lot harder than the Sonys, so they don't feel nearly as good.Overall, they've lasted longer than any other headphones/earbuds I've had before, and they fit really well on my head, so I'm satisfied with them, even if the sound isn't that great.
5	1317600000	This is probably the best pair of headphones for the price. I was pleasantly surprised, it gives great sound quality for music and movies. Get these and save some money, you wont regret it.
3	1316736000	First i would like to say I am a musician with a need to study specific sounds in my music.  I also am tired of headphones that break easily and just don't sound clear or defined..So, i owned a pair of these about four years ago.  The retail back then was around 70 dollars at Best Buy i do believe.  The sound quality was very good.  The highs, mids, and lows were pretty defined and separate.  It sounded great.  Crisp highs and punchy lows.  There are better headphones out there, that's for sure.  But these have better sound quality than any of the higher quality Skullcandy headphones.I have one small problem with these headphones and one big problem with them.The small- It may be because i have semi-long hair.  But i cannot wear these headphones for prolonged periods of time.  Maybe 40 minutes at the most.  The foam around my ear simply BURNS my head.  From the friction.  Like i said, it was probably because i had longer hair. I found it very uncomfortable.The big- They break.  and they break.  and they break.  and they break.  and they break.  I had a friend who owned the same pair.  Same problem.  They will break in a thousand places very very easily.  And i repaired almost every last break.  But after about 3 months the left speaker went.  And i was done.  I did not handle them rough and i took good care of them.  I believe general use and very poor design had caused all of the breaks.So, they sound very good (about semi-professional quality), they break, they are uncomfortable, and they seem to be very cheap now.  If this is all you can afford, i recommend them for the price over anything else around that price range.  Try to take good care of them and expect them to break!
4	1316736000	I have owned these headphones for a while now. If you are converting from a pair of, say Apple earbuds, then if you have any ear for sound you will notice a massive improvements. The bass is full without being bloated (like it is on my Creative Fatal1ty headset), and mids and highs seem adequate. Like many other reviewers, I don't profess to be an audiophile or anyone close to it, but I do appreciate a good, full sound. The cord is extra-thick, a nuisance at first, but something I've come to appreciate due to the durability. Unlike other headphones I've owned, I never feel like the cord is going to pull out of the minijack connector on the end, or the headphones themselves, for that matter. The extra cord length is something of a bother for sticking into an iPod in your pocket, but is a big bonus when using a computer. Overall, well worth the price paid and then some.
5	1316131200	As a musician with nearly 12 years of recording experience (in my own home "studio", that is) - these are by far the best headphones for the value that I've found. I've tried dozens of brands in all different shapes and sizes and none have matched the comfort and accuracy of these. I've used headphones that sounded like tin cans, headphones that made the music sound like it was underwater and headphones that fell apart 2 months later - but these do a remarkable job at matching the actual equalizer settings. Sure, there are more expensive sets made of stronger materials, but a pair of these can last between 10 months to even 2 years of heavy use (as in, several hours a day of adjusting and fiddling with them while moving around microphones and whatnot). In terms of durability, they are made of plastic so I'd give them 3 stars on that - but for comfort, I give them a 5. Don't be fooled by the circular shape of them - they do fit over the ear quite nicely (in my opinion) and for a pair of headphones under $50 - these are definitely the best I've ever used in terms of overall sound quality.
5	1315180800	I got these headphones for free with an mp3 purchase at Guitar Center about 7 years ago. I loved them! They have a super long DJ chord, just in case you need to break down into dance! ;)They also had a headphone adapter for my guitar AMP! Whoo-hoo private jam session!I was very happy with the sound quality, I said to myself "There we go, now I can hear the bass".The headphones do cover a wider range than most of us who "Love skullcandies" (Even though the quality is HORRIBLE) are used to, so not only could you hear the bass, but the headphones allow you to hear ALL of the music that you were missing with the skullcandies. It's the same moment when you listen to a CD forever, and finally buy the vinyl and then your like "Ahhh. I can hear the music".So the pair of these headphones I bought about 7 years ago, i still have. They have held up well, other than my cat chewed the plastic inside the earpiece, which covers the foam that cushions your ears...And I have listened to these headphones with the volume to the max, so I blew out some of the lower frequencies and it gives the music a scratchy sound.BUT I am writing this review because of how long they have lasted, and they were so good to me that I bought another pair at my local TJX for $16.99. I never thought I'd find these headphones again, but the quality has made them priceless to the consumers...because we keep buying them.These aren't your high-end bass headphones or dj headphones, but you get that same quality without paying the hundreds for them! This is the BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
2	1315094400	This is a decent pair of headphones, but are not nearly as good as some people think. In terms of sound quality, for me, they are unbearable. They have terrible reproduction of just about every frequency, as well as having that terrible closed in soundstage common to cheap closed headphones. Comfort is just as terrible. I defy you to wear these with glasses and not get a headache every single time. Overall, they are not worth the money or even the time it takes to ship them to your house. They sell simply because the brand Sony is well known for being associated with quality products. Quite frankly, if I owned Sony, I would be embarrassed to have my company's name on this product. Do yourself a favor and buy a pair of Sennheiser HD 201s instead. Those are not particularly jaw dropping either, but can be found at lower prices than these and have far better sound quality and comfort.
4	1314662400	You're not gonna find a better headphones in the $30-$40 price range. My last pair held up for 3 yrs, I use them around 5-6 hours a day @ the office. The one and only down side is the head phone covers deteriorate after a couple yrs. That said, I got my money's worth out of them, so I replaced them w/the same model.
3	1314403200	I've tried a variety of headphones over the years from prices ranging from super cheap to over $500. For the price, these headphones are just "ok". For only about $30 you can find Koss Portapro's, Sennheiser PX-100's, and even are able to find Sennheiser HD228's for around $40.I understand those options are slightly more expensive, but those headphones are WORLDS better than these Sony MDR-V150's for just a tiny bit more money. Once you listen to those 3 headphones, the Sony's sound like you are listening to them with cotton balls stuffed in your ears. It just doesn't sound anywhere near as crisp, clean, and clear.As for the design, I've had mine for about 7 years, and they are still in perfect shape. Very solid. The only complain I have about the actual design is that they clamp really tight on your ears. My head is probably slightly smaller than most people's, yet they are tight, so I can only imagine that it would be even more uncomfortable on those with larger heads.So for the price, they are alright. But for about $10 more, you can find headphones that rival most headphones 5x the price. I have currently been listening to my Grado Labs SR-225i headphones that I bought for $200. I'm still astounded that my Sennheiser PX-100's that I bought for $30 still sound good after listening to the Grado's. I pretty much only use the Sony's to remind myself how good the Sennheisers actually are... and especially for the price.
3	1313884800	I bought these to use with iPad and PC mostly.I own sennheiser HD280 Pro and sennheiser px-100 and I must say these headphones are not in the same level at all.Yes they do the job but the sound is kind of faded and flat (so far).I'm not an expert and the main thing I really wanted to say is that these headphones are extremely uncomfortable.So much so it actually pains. My head is quite narrow so I just can't really think why my ears sore after 10 minutes  of use. I had to fly for 10 hours and was hoping to enjoy some music.. that was hard.One other thing is that the cord does not come out of the headphones from one side which is less comfortable if you are using it for monitoring etc.I'm disappointed. While writing this review I'm using my HD280.. what a difference in comfort and sound.
5	1313884800	I have had these for at least 4 years, and they are still great. I have used them enough that the ear cushions are starting to wear out, but they are still my favorite pair of headphones. They have great bass and sound quality for headphones. You do not need to turn up very high to hear the full range of sounds in your music.
4	1313020800	I like many other's have had the Sony MDR-V150 Headphones for year's, at least 4 or 5 for me. I have put them through some tough use and never had a problem with the build quality. They actually still look new, no scratches excellent wire's etc. I must say that if you really want a better pair for your money look at the newer SONY MDR-ZX300. They sound WAY better then the MDR-V150 headphone's. MY old MDR-V150'S have served me well and still look and sound very good. I have always found that the Sony MDR-V150's volume level to be kind of low in my opinion. Also know that the cord on the Sony MDR-V150 headphones is much longer than the cord on the Sony MDR-ZX300 headphones and may not be a good choice for portable sound monitoring.
5	1312848000	I bought these when I was in high school. I am now 27 and still have them and use them at work to listen to phone calls. I used to use them with my CD player, then with my third gen iPod, and with my laptop, etc. There aren't many products on the market that will last ten years or more. BTW, there is NO wear on the cord or anywhere on the headphones, just minor scratches.
5	1312502400	ilove these head phones .i have brought sony products in the past & i highlyrecomenend theseheadphones they have great sound .
1	1312416000	I've used these headphones almost daily for 5 months. The sound is really good -- especially when you consider the price -- and the headphones are very comfortable.However, do consider my misfortune with build quality when buying these: the plug broke in half (there are two plastic notches on the jack; it split at the first one) and the little metal piece got stuck in the aux port in my computer. I have no idea how to get it out.The headphones now play only in one ear and I cannot plug any other ones in.Needless to say, the warranty period of 90 days is long over.
3	1312329600	These headphones have excellent sound and brilliant bass, but about four months into owning them I find that they constantly lose the connection on one side.  I have not abused them at all.  Weird thing is that the sound sometimes drops out gradually over a few seconds.  Presumably a weak connection.I would also echo the concern that if you are sensitive to headphones feeling a bit tight on the head, this might not be the brand for you.
3	1312329600	I bought these headphones a few years ago at a mass retailer for $25.  The construction is durable and the materials last a long time, but the big problem I have with them is that the earpieces are round--not oval.  No one has round ears and the earpieces are unbelievably tight and they pinch.  I was constantly taking them off because of outer ear pain.  The sound quality is excellent, however--very clear and deep.  However, I would not buy these again.  I have replaced them with Sennheiser headphones with oval earpieces and they have excellent sound quality, too.
4	1311724800	The package arrived on time and in good conditions. The sound is excellent. The only problem is that it does not cover your ears completely, therefore the sound can escape a little bit, but I still recommend the product.
3	1311724800	Good quality for the price. Only complaint is that the ear cups are a little small for my ears and the band a little tight so wearing them for a long time can create a small pressure discomfort on the sides of the head.
1	1311552000	Had two pairs before, and stupidly bought yet another pair when the previous ones finally broke for good on me. The first pair broke constantly, even after repeated attempts at supergluing them back together(they broke along the small plastic pieces holding the headphones onto the band), and I was wearing the second pair when I accidentally got up and knelt on the cord, so that the headphone jack ripped out of the cord completely and nearly got stuck in my iPod(yes, I realise that one was my fault).This pair is my last one from Sony, I've only had them since March, and already they're breaking down so that unless I position the cord exactly right, the sound cuts in and out(sometimes I can hear the music, but no vocals, and sometimes vice versa), and on occasion it cuts out entirely. Just not worth it for the price I paid for them, I'll be looking for a different pair after this.
5	1311292800	About 2 weeks ago I blew out my really expensive headphones that I had bought about 15 years ago.  I did not want to pay a lot of money for new ones right now, so I bought these Sony headphones, and I love them, they have great sound, I decided not to get the ones with the sliding volume control because of what I heard about the problem with the slider.  I am so happy with this product.
4	1311206400	A little tight for my adult head at first. I wear glasses and they pushed on the bows alittle bit. They have lossened up now that the kids have had them. My kids love them better than ear buds. I use a set in a sound booth on weekends and appreciate that you can turn one ear out for a quick listen without having to set them on. They have traveled well in the car and I need another set for the rest of the family.
4	1310515200	Well I got these for a cheap pair of headphones to play drums with, and they fit perfect, I think they are very comfortable, but there is a lot of bass sound and I turned them up all the way and still barely heard the drums in the background while I was playing, even though I've never had this problem before with any headphones, but I still think they are a good buy for being so cheap.
4	1310256000	These are great. I use them all the time for monitoring when recording. I'm sure there are some better cans out there, but I've found these to be really solid, balanced, and true. The only thing bad about them is after several years of use, the leather-like covers on the earphones are flaking off (though the foam underneath is still fine). So I'm going to buy a new pair. They have a nice long cord, and you can wear them comfortably for a long, long time. They're light but sturdy.
5	1310256000	Simple and short, a must have item if you want a pair of headphones to keep the music loud and not annoy anyone else from hearing your kickass music. How inexpensive are these headphones and yet have such a plus plus in quality. Love using them with my Mp3 and Laptop.
1	1310083200	These headphones are only $16, but for that price you should be able to get a pretty decent set. Our set lasted for about 6 uses and then stopped working (this is almost always due to crappy wiring and it shorts out). Amazon is refunding my purchase price, even though it's been more than 30 days since the purchase. Spend a few dollars more and get some better quality headphones! D. Olsen, North Carolina
5	1309996800	If you're in the market for budget headphones, stop reading reviews now and just purchase this item.  These headphones are fantastic.  I had one pair stolen from my office, so I am now on my second pair.  Both have been excellent.
2	1309996800	These headphones sound great for the price. The only issue (which is a big one) is that after a year of use the left side speaker wire got all twitchy, so half the time nothing is coming out of the left hand speaker. It's a bummer.
5	1309564800	I LOVE THEM VERY MUCH TY TY TY  !!!!! I HAVE BEEN LOOKING AROUND FOR THEM SINCE NOVEMBER AND I FINALLY FOUND THEM.WOO HOOTHANKS AGAINZ
1	1309392000	I bought these pair of headphones from Amazon, through the dealer The Price Pros, and the left speaker didn't work out of the box. I was very disappointed. Also, the box was worn out and dusty, as if it has been sitting in a wear house for a really long time. I've sent them an e-mail and I'm hoping to get a new pair soon (that actually work out of the box). I don't know how smoothly returning these pair of headphones will be, but if not good, I suggest not going through The Price Pros. I'll be sure to update you.
4	1309046400	for $15 this is nuts. they dont block out sound, and the cable is a little too long, but these are just great headphones, had em for a long time, havent given me 1 bit of trouble.
5	1308787200	Just purchased these to replace some well-worn Cyber Acoustics HE-200 headphones that I use with my computer and stereo.  The headband of the HE-200 was shot (held together with tape) and one of the few things I disliked about them was the unusually long cord.  So I was looking for something new and the Sony MDR-V150 caught my eye.The first thing I noticed about the Sony headphones is the extremely comfortable and snug earcups.  They pivot nearly 180 so they can be used for side monitoring on one ear, but that pivot also forces the cups to stay snug on your ears when placed normally.  The earcups on the HE-200 were fixed in position, so as they aged, and the headband wore out, the cups gained a little space from the ear over theyears.Because of the snug fit, I did need to adjust the equalizer on my computer, since I was now hearing more than I used to.  That only took a few moments with a good mp3 as the test subject.The one thing I will miss is the volume slider on the HE-200, which allowed me to adjust on the fly when sound levels between songs/videos changed.  Not as big an issue at the computer as the keyboard also has volume controls.Otherwise, the Sony V150 looks to be a very serviceable replacement, and I look forward to years of service.
5	1308787200	I got used to the high quality of these headphones, and when I unthinkingly stuffed them in my satchel and they snapped in two, I had to get a replacement pair.  I use them every day, great product.
4	1308700800	Soy amante del sonido, pero limitado a veces por la capacidad de poder pagar los gustos, actualmente tengo un Ipad 16 GB WIFI, el cual adquiri por amazon, y la utilizo en muchas ocaciones para animar fiesta y reuniones, utilizo una aplicacion llamada Djay y queria tener unos audifonos que me mejoraran el uso de la aplicacion pero no gastar mucho dinero en ello.Escoji estos sony por las caracteristicas basicas, son lijeros, tienen buena respuesta en los bajos y sus medios y agudos satisfacen la necesidad para mezclar musica, pero realmente sorprenden la comodidad y su buen sonido. No se pueden comparar con cascos de DJ profesiones, vamos por el precio que estan son un regalo, pero hacen bien su funcion y para alguien que quiera experimentar un buen sonido con unos audifonos economicos, llevara una grata sorpresa.Es importante destacar, que el uso continuo puede fastidiar un poco la presion que hacen hacia los oidos y la cabeza, pero considero que eso se suavisa con el continuo uso. Aparte es importante cuidar el cable, ya que no dispone de ninguna proteccion adicional.Aclaro algo, son audifonos de uso simple, no esperes tener una claridad de audio 100%, tienden a colorear un poco la musica, a veces gisean si el brillo es muy agudo y son plasticosos. Aunque el material que usan se nota resistentes y las gomas para protecion de las orejas hacen bien su funcion. Disponen de un adaptador Jack para otros equipos standares y el cable es lo suficientemente largo.Si deseas escuchar claridad y no gastar mucho, y jugar a ser un DJ, estos son los audifonos que recomiendo.Adicionalmente dispongo de unos audifonos Bose Triport in heard, y tambien unos sony intra hi-performace MDR-EX90LP.
5	1308441600	I'm pleased with these headphones so far.  I'm sure they are not the greatest on the market, but if you are looking for a durable set of headphones to use while at work or at home then you'll be happy.  I even used them on the plane and was satisfied.
5	1308182400	I absolutely love these headphones.  They are very solid, well built, and produce excellent sound in any range.  Especially of note is the strength of the bass.  The ear cups themselves may seem a little big, and wearing them for too long may cause discomfort, but otherwise I have no complaints.  Overall, these are excellent headphones.
1	1308096000	Price - OKManufacturing - BAD.I only used these a few times and one of the small plastic tab that prevents the ear cup to pivot broke.With the broken tab, this allows the ear cup to rotate full swing which makes the headphones very unusable.
5	1308009600	CUANDO LOS US&Eacute; POR PRIMERA VEZ, ME DI CUENTA QUE NO HAB&Iacute;A ESCUCHADO M&Uacute;SICA HASTA USAR ESOS AUD&Iacute;FONOS, GENIALES PARA LOS AMANTES DE LA M&Uacute;SICA.
5	1307404800	I bought these because my earbuds we getting annoying when I used them all day at work. I was looking for something that sounds as good or better than the apple ear buds that came with my iPod. These Sony's are great!!! For only $12 I was able to get headphones that sound better than my earbuds and are much more comfortable. I can't imagine getting a better value than these!!
4	1307318400	If you are looking for a pair of headphones that will last a long time and have good sound quality but isn't overpriced, these could be EXCACTLY what you're looking for. However, they get uncomfortable after wearing them for about 45 minutes. If you are looking for more comfortable headphones that are still durable with great sound quality, and you don't care about price, I would suggest the Bose QuietComfort 15. They cost over a $100 though, while these have great sound quality for just over 10 bucks.I recomend to anybody who needs a good pair of all-around headphones without being too expensive.Pros:Undistorted BassGood, clear sound qualityVERY durableCons:Uncomfortable
4	1307232000	These headphones were great for the money. One part cracked but I put some tape on it and it still works fine. They squeeze your head after about 2 hours so don't expect to use them for long periods of time
3	1307145600	I do not know what others are saying about these headphones, but they are not good if you plan on using them for a long time. When i say "long time", i'm referring to just over an hour of use. These make your ears hurts quite a bit after long use and mine broke after 2 months. They are made of cheap plastic and the headphones fell apart into two pieces and one of the cushions fell off as well. I did not even handle them roughly. You should buy these instead which are also from sony which cost just a few dollars more: [...]
5	1306713600	Sound is great and the cord is long enough so you can move around easily without yanking on them.  The ear cups flip around a little making it a little awkward putting them on but the good points more than make up for that.
5	1306713600	These are really good heaphones. They play loud and have a lot of bass to it but if you step on them once they break real easy. So watch out and dont step on them it happen to me.
5	1306454400	These headphones are probably the cheapest quality over the ear headphones you're going to find.  They are very slim and lightweight, so you could easily wear them while walking around a city or campus, and be able to slip them in a bag easily.  The sound quality is good for the price if you plan to use them for casual listening or monitoring and not any real technical work.  If you're coming from earbuds, it may take a while to adjust to the subtle sound, but your ears will thank you in the future for the reduced strain.They are a bit tight on the head and can make your ears red over long periods of use (1 hour+). However, over time they feel like they're becoming a little looser, but in a good way (Or maybe I'm just getting used to the pressure).Overall, these headphones are great for casual use, especially if you want slim over the ear phones that don't make you look like an alien and won't take up an entire bag.
5	1306195200	Lightweight, with great sound quality. They do not block all exterior sound - but still a really noticeable difference. Great for use with recording setup!
5	1306108800	I've had these headphones for five years now, and have kept them that long for a reason. The sound quality is excellent for a pair of $20 headphones, most everything about the product is great.My only gripe? About two years of casual office use in, the plastic part where the adjustable bits go in and out broke. I taped it up then, and it's been working just fine since.
5	1306022400	Most people will not be wowed by these headphones. They will say that they don't sound very good or don't respond well. However, the fact is that these headphones are simply extremely accurate. They do not exaggerate the bass (althought the drivers are capable of producing a lot of bass) and the treble sounds amazing. These headphones are comfortable, excellent for audio monitoring and video editing and amazing value for money.
5	1305849600	These were bought for my son who is 14yrs. old.  He seems to go through headphone quite often.  He says the headphone work great, are loud and easy to manage.  So fat they have not fallen apart, we have had them about 6wks now.
5	1305849600	They just do there job, no hassle, great cord, great quality, lasting me for years.They aren't noise canceling but they do just what they are supposed to do great.
1	1305676800	I bought these after hearing from a few people that they made decent low-end headphones.  I replaced them after two months and am never going back.  They really are glorified Walkman headphones, and compared to the Koss KSC-75's with which I replaced them, they sound awfully muddy and unrefined.  Portability was poor too, and my head would start to feel clamped after only an hour or two of listening.  All around, the KSC-75's are a much better value.
5	1305676800	So over the past 5 years, i bought many different pairs of headphones, ranging from ear buds, around ear, over ears etc. In all honesty, these are the best headphones i've ever owned. At half the price of other headphones i've purchased. The sound quality, in my opinion is amazing. You can basically feel the bass of the music, but its not overpowering. Although my ipod is set on bass-booster EQ, it's balanced with these. You can hear everything through them perfectly, the quality is outstanding. Half of my songs sound alot different, in a good way. I've noticed things in the music that I've never even heard before. The long cord is slightly bothersome, but the twisty tie it came with serves its purpose, and its never really in my way. The headphones are very durable, and have already saved my ipod two times.Comfort-wise, these are outstanding, the fit perfect, and feel perfect. Although they fit closely around your ears, you can still hear someone yelling at you, even if the volume is all the way up. Another plus is the fact that they can serve as small speakers, if your in a fairly quiet area at least. Now i have had some minor issues with them, pinched my hair twice, but nothing horrible. The last thing i have to say about them is that after an hour or so, my right ear gets irritated, almost as if it's pinching my ear. I think it's jus because my ears are medium sized. or maybe i have a mis-shapen head, either way, a must for anyone wanting to spend $20 wisely.
5	1305676800	Well here ya go, the kids needed a set of head phones for the upstairs computer that is right next to the family room. I was tired of yelling at them to turn it down, it just wasn't fair to them either. So we decided that when we saw a quality pair of full cover head phones for a decent price, we'd snag em', and here we are.We've had these in use for several weeks now and the kids love them. They love them to the point that they have a tendency to borrow them for their ipods or DS lite's. Needless to say, I see a future purchase of several more sets - can you say Santa?You can get better head sets for sure, but if you're looking for a solid performing full cover set of headphones, you won't go wrong with these.
2	1305676800	i got this to get better sound quality and on that it delivered.but they are super uncomfortable, maybe this is just for me but they hurt my ears. cant listen for more then 20 mins before ears start hurting.i rarely use for that reason
3	1305504000	I bought these after reading many reviews, mostly with positive feedback. Out of the box the headphones worked great, but after 3 uses the right ear piece stopped producing sound. I first thought it was my mixer, but after checking the phones out on multiple audio devices I learned that it was indeed the headphones that were faulty. I am hoping that I got a lemon which is why I will consider buying these again... I just thought interested buyers should know. Luckily Amazon is giving me a full refund.
2	1305504000	Even after a month of break-in these headphones sound muddy and distant.  I like my Panasonic RP-HT21s much better and they cost $15 less!
2	1305244800	These were terrific - great sound, comfy - but they BROKE!!  Gently used, just snapped off, unusable.  SNAPPED OFF!  Weird.  All the ear buds and headsets that have come and gone, this has never happened.
3	1305158400	For the price the headphones are relatively decent. However, the sound is very muddy. I sent them back. If you want quality sound, invest more money and buy other pair.
5	1304640000	I have owned these for a year now. Just bought 2 of these for gifting.I always buy quality stuff even if it is expensive. Saw these first time at a colleague's desk, tried them in the extremely noisy lab and was impressed by the quality of sound. When I heard the price I was blown away. For that price you hardly get such quality sound. Usually Sony is irrationally expensive, but not this case.Pros:1) High quality bass. I am a bass lover, but I enjoy only the smooth bass. This one is prefect for my taste.2) Sturdy build. I have owned my set for a year now in a messy lab. It still looks new.3) Long enough cable. I usually listen on my notebook. I actually have to keep most of the cable folded.Cons:1) After a long stretch (3 to 4 hours) of use my ears ache a bit. That's normal I believe. After all, ears weren't built for the headphones! :)
5	1304640000	I am a radio DJ and have used these headphones for several years.  Now, one of the ear pads is just beginning to fray a bit after hundreds of hours of use.  I use these headphones 3 hours a day, five days a week.  They are comfortable, the sound is very good and they are lightweight.  Over the years, I've used headphones that were much more expensive and nowhere near as good.  Excellent value.
5	1304640000	Excellent quality sound, with bass.  Solid construction.  Tends to block out external sounds (people talking, other music, HVAC, etc.), even without the noise cancelling option!
4	1304553600	They're good headphones for the price that you would be paying for them.  They have good sound quality.  The cable is a little too long and they're a little small. And personally i like big headphones, but they're big enough to cover your whole ear, so thats good. Good headphones if you're looking for something cheap.
2	1304380800	Pros :Sound quality is good.Cheaper to buy.Cons :Highly uncomfortable on ears. After using it for 3 continuous days, my ears started aching.!
1	1304380800	The headphones are poor quality. They cut in and out on the right side and just generally sound poor. Too cheap to return I guess you get what you pay for!!
5	1304035200	The sound is very deep and music hasn't sounded so good. Before I got these headphones I saw a review that the headphones lay on your ears, they don't cup your entire ear. Well, headphones cup your inner ear. Headphones would need to be pretty big for them to cup your entire ear. I decided to look at headphones after getting cheap ear buds that don't work when you get them. That is not a special discount. I had a choice between earbuds that can damage your eardrums. Like another review said, the difference between headphones and ear buds is like listening to your car radio with the windows up, you can turn down the volume and the music is clearer(headphones), and with the windows down it isn't as clear and you have to crank the volume(ear buds). So if your thinking between headphones and ear buds, ignore all the bad reviews, their probably just employees from another company or they are spoiled. PICK THE HEADPHONES!
4	1303862400	These are almost identical to ones I had previously that died (after about 10 yrs, and that from my not storing them nicely probably).  They're better than ear buds in terms of sound quality for sure, although they do start to become uncomfortable after a few hours.The only complaint I have is that they are super loud! I have to turn the volume down to the lowest possible setting so I don't go deaf (on both my computer and my mp3 player). I think at full volume they would serve as better speakers than the ones attached to my laptop, which is a bit obscene.  My previous similar headphones had a volume control on the cord, and these do not, which especially considering how loud they are I miss quite a bit.Overall, great sound quality, comfortable for up to a few hours at a time, absolutely a great value, but make sure to turn the volume way down when you use them.
5	1303776000	Not to say I'm a expert or anything but these are a great pair of headphones. I got a Dell gift card when I got one of their studio laptops and used it to buy one of these. Unfortunately my pair broke a month or so ago. I loved these so much I bought another pair and a replacement in case that one breaks off ebay for under 30 for both. I highly recommend these if you are looking a good pair on the cheap. :)
5	1303776000	This product is a good investment for my sanity. With so many products that the children love to play, all at the same time, it is good to filter out some of the sounds so they don't crash with one another. Everything in moderation. Everyone's happy, especially me. The quality of the product is excellent and they are compfortable to wear. If I am in need of more headphones, these are the ones I will buy. The shipping and packaging were fast and well done.
4	1303603200	I have actually owned my pair of V-150s for about 12 years. I bought them to go with a diskman (dating the phones with that statement). I have since graduated to the digital world and much rather over the ear comfort, and sound quality to the god awful ear buds that accompany the ipod. I will say these are by no means audiophile quality, but they are rugged, as i said I've had them over 10 years. I use them when I mow, as well as all other portable applications. If you are looking for studio monitors for vinyl playback, these are not quite the quality you're looking for.
4	1303603200	This is my third set of the same brand/model. I wear them for 16+ hours a day and have no issue with sound or confort. I gave two sets to my Son and wife and both liked it as well.
5	1303516800	I Just bought a 2nd pair of these for my sister in law because she liked mine so much. I've had mine for about 5 years now and they look and sound just as good as the day I bought them... I produce music but didn't buy these to use in the lab, instead I bought these for my kids to use on their computer and even after years of abuse they are still in great condition... I've had expensive headphones that have not lasted as good as these... sound wise they are very nice, I could probably put a really decent mix on a track if I were to use them, listening fatigue wouldn't be a issue and the range is actually very nice... They work great on my kids pc though because of the over 6ft cord... I have to plug into the back of the tower so w/ the long cord it works out nice.
3	1303171200	First couple of months were the hardest - these headphones are really tight on the head. At times I had headaches from the pressure.Otherwise the sound is really good.
4	1302912000	I Had Them For 2 Weeks And The Head Phone Plug In Broke Off.. The Sound Was A Lil Crackly.
4	1302739200	For $15, you can't beat these headphones.  Be aware, no matter what they're called, these are not "studio" or "monitor"-- quality headphones, but what did you expect for $15?  They're comfy, solidly built (from plastic), and deliver good sound.  I'm very happy with them.
4	1302566400	Overall for the price that I paid these headphones have greatly exceeded my expectations, I was looking for an inexpensive pair to practice guitar with so as not to have to play through the amp and ended up getting a great pair of headphones.  The only downside that I have found with the phones is that they can become a little uncomfortable after long periods of time but besides that a great pair for a great price.
5	1302393600	I'm very pleased with this purchase. I considered new headphones for months, before needing to make a quick purchase. I went for the value and have been impressed. I do agree with the folks that the headphones are a bit tight, but not uncomfortable. If you're looking to wear them for more than an hour at a time, go for something that fits around the ear.
4	1302220800	Good overall. Discreate sounds, each instrument, voice, drums, etc, are discrete.Comfort good. I use these phones on my computer for music & when using my electronic Keyboard.Very good, but don't expect a great sound as on your surround sound speakers when listing to classical music or complex jazz.Good value.
1	1301875200	These things will break very easily on the bracket that holds on to the headphone. I did some research and I cannot find an easy fix for it. I would not suggest getting them unless you never plan to travel with them etc, so that you know they will not get broken in your bag like mine did after having owned them for just a month or two.
4	1301788800	Generally speaking, this product is good. Its sound quality is good and the shape is beatiful. However, I think it is a little tight, which make it less comfortable to wear. Besides, when you wear it, you can hardly hear other sound arround.
3	1301529600	I love the way theses sounded, however the same C clip that connects the cups, to the actually head set broke. On both sides.If this could be fixed, these would be 5 star headphones.
5	1301356800	This was a great product only problem does not have to do with the headphone, but the device you use. I use a small MP3 player and these headphone do not work too well with these head phone. only one right ear piece give a sound.but when i use another device like my laptop it work beautifully. great product, just need compatible device.
5	1301184000	Just arrive last week. I love this headphone so much. Love the price and love the quality it can gives you. recommended for who want a good quality headphone with affordable price.
5	1301184000	the earcups fit my 5 year old all the way up to me!  the band part is adjustable.  i believe the sound quality depends on your computer but these work well for us.I am editing this less than 2 months later :( Not sturdy enough for kids and switching from one computer to another. The metal part of the cord that plugs into the computer broke off
4	1301184000	These are excellent headphones for a great price.  The sound and quality are great.  My only complaint is that even at full extension they are to tight on my head and therefor limit the amount of time that I can wear them. They do fit my daughter perfectly.
5	1301097600	These headphones are a great buy for the money. Sony is an excellent brand of headphones and have never disappointed me. I bought these headphones like 4 years ago and they still sound great and haven't broken. about a year ago i purchased a pair of $50 skullcandy headphones as a upgrade, but these outperformed and outlasted the skullcandys by a long shot. These headphones outperforming skullcandys is not to big of complement, saying that skullcandys are cheeply built and last only a couple months. even so these headphones really great buy for the money and you wont be disappointed.
1	1300924800	broken and returned.refund went back to our gift card which we dont have anymore...dissapointed with automated customer service.Guess i am just out the money,thanks
1	1300838400	Please consider other headphones before getting these.  I bought them about 3 months ago, before that I used some cheap Radio Shack $5 headphones, and those where great, but after 7 years they were very worn out.The first time I put these headphone on, they felt ok.  But, after about 30 minutes they were simply unbearable.  They make a great amount of pressure in my ears, and what's worse, the pain will last for some time even after I take them off.  I gave a couple of tries using different settings, but there was one way I would get used to that level of uncomfortness.
5	1300838400	I purchased these headphones although every bad review said that they were painfully tight on your head.  When I received them I noticed they were painfully tight on my head... SO, being that I use them at work and my phone at work was wider than my head, I put the headphones on my phone over night (as if my phone was listening to music, which looked funny).  When I got back in the morning I put my new headphones on AND THEY FIT PERFECT!  They sound GREAT compared to any ear bud or regular headphone and the price can't be beat!  To anybody complaining that this product hurts your head, get half a brain and do what I did.  Find something a little wider than your head, put the headphones on it overnight and BINGO!  They will fit like a champ!  I love these headphones and it's as if they were CUSTOM FIT for ME!  Best bang for your buck!  BUY THESE HEADPHONES!  Anything else will just waste your money!  Trust me, don't be a dummy.
5	1300665600	These headphones are great, just what I needed to monitor the recordings and also listen to my music.  They are comfortable and sound really good.  They also work well with the Sansa MP3 Player.  AND much lighter than the Koss Pro/4AAA phones I've been using for 35 years. I love them.
4	1300665600	decent headset for the money. sound quality is ok. volume aside, apple ear buds are superior in this sense. these lack a good high freq. range as most inexpensive headsets do. but these stay on your head. a little tight as previously mentioned. but this is an easy fix. someone suggested heating the head piece gently and this worked perfectly. great for my kid's ipods. these are driven easily by the ipods- so good power output.
5	1300320000	There are certainly better headphones out - wider frequency range, more durable, etc, but the MDR-V150 has, in my opinion/experience, the best qualities for the price. I use headphones at work almost all day (music, podcasts), and then go home and use them for several more hours (music, gaming), I liked these so much I bought an extra set for work and a back-up set for home.pros:- comfortable enough for long-term usage.- good sound quality.- headphone design muffles a lot of external noises. Not as good an active noise-cancellation system of course, but it definitely does better than most similar models I've used.- price! It would be a steal at twice this price- fairly durable. I've used my current (home) set for over a year and the only issue is that they need 'squeeze' my head quite as snuggly any more.cons:- not *that* durable. You can tell just by picking them up it's just plastic.
4	1300060800	in a nutshell, for the money you can't beat it.  i have had mine for 5 years now.  they work great.  they sound very good - the bass comes thru surprisingly...as others have said it is a bit tight though.
3	1299628800	they lasted two years exactly, I was overall satified with the quality of sound, but today I noticed the sound was 90% down from what it usually is and even though my computer sound volume setting was 100% I could barely hear anything.. anyway, I pulled the jack hoping to fix the sound and after a few jerking moves it came off completely.. and there went my earphones.. straight to the garbage.  Ohh well..
5	1299628800	Never thought i could actually enjoy mp3 on a laptop ......these are great comfortable and sound great I could say too great for the money but that would not make them justice i would have paid much more
5	1299628800	These headphones do hurt, but I used them to listen to podcasts and they lasted 2 and a half years.  I think they are a great value for the money and I plan to buy another set. But if you are willing to spend extra cash, there are better headphones.
1	1299542400	After about 4 months of use (8 hours per week), the right sound channel failed to work.Prior to the failure, I did enjoy the sound quality.Expected the headphones to last longer tha 4 month.
5	1299456000	Got these today, delivered pretty quick - Thanks Amazon and UPS!I used to buy cheap ear-buds at local stores but they didn't sound near as good as standard headphones of course.  They usually fall apart after a bit of abuse and are easier to loose.I choose this pair of Sony headphones after reading all the good reviews here.  15 bucks isn't much for a nice headset and I really like these.  I don't think I have ever spent much more for a pair of headphones but these are the best sounding.  Not "tinny" sounding at all.  Of course they don't have much bass but low notes still sound nice.  I don't like my music deafening-loud but did try them briefly at high volume and they still sound just as good.I will use these mostly for listening on the pc when it is late enough that speakers will disturb others in the house.It also came with an adapter for the larger jacks found on professional products, I have no use for this now but do have a couple boxes to keep various electrical adapters in and it will no doubt find a use at some point.  Nice little bonus, and considering these are sold as "Studio" headphones it makes sense they are included.
5	1299196800	these headphones are worth the money! very comfortable to use and the sound system is great as well...money well spent!!!
3	1299196800	I really like these headphones. The sound is very good, they're easy to adjust, love the extra long cord - there's many things to love about them. But after using them for months, I just can't bear them anymore.  I tried to watch a movie with them the other day and it was just the last straw for me.  For a quick listen to a song or something, they're okay, but any prolonged listening (I'd say anything longer than 15-20 minutes) will have you taking breaks just to give your ears a rest.  Let me also say that I am a female with a very small head.  As in, I usually need to buy children's hats to have one that fits well.  I can't even imagine how these headphones would feel on someone with a normal-sized head or even a large head.In the end, discomfort outweighs all the pros of these headphones, which is really too bad.
4	1299196800	Monitor headsets can go beyond sound quality, construction quality, power and cost to certain levels of choice,but when you are thinking of buying a headphone for your mp3 player or phone (or in general a portable devicewhich does not run on power but on battery), then you have to worry about how much power does your headphonetakes from your device's battery life. I have used big headphones with my puny Nokia 5310 and my PSP before and believe me,the battery goes down quicker. That is why I wanted something which will give me good base along withgood battery life of my device. Sony mdr-v150 is perfect for this kind of usage. I am into heavy drum and base,which is fun only if you have a good headphone, and because of its low power usage, your device won't losejuice every-now-and-then either. Also, I believe it is fairly cheap for its sound quality. I have given it onestar less in "comfort" ratings..., do not worry, the headphone is fairly comfortable, but after prolonged usageof 2-hours or so, your ear lobes might start paining. Which is only natural actually, this is a problem I have seenin every single headphone I have bought in my entire life, and besides no one should use a headphone for suchperiods of time, its unhealthy nonetheless.On final note, if you are looking for a heavy base headphone for your device, this is good(you can always go better for your PC/laptop).
2	1299024000	Felt like I wasted cash after I took a chance against the other reviews saying these hurt.  I figured I have a small head and perhaps I'd be okay.  Unfortunately, I thought wrong.
5	1298851200	These Sony headphones have great sound quality for their $15 price.  The cord is ample and flexible, and ear-cup comfort very good.  No reliability problems so far.  I own two pairs, which we use on the iPAD and laptops.
3	1298678400	About 35 years ago I worked as an on-air announcer at a local music radio station in my hometown. Off and on for several years after that I worked with a friend running a local dj service. I've been to a variety of live band concerts and dj appearances over the years. And I have always enjoyed playing and especially listening to a variety of music, mostly rock but also blues, jazz, pop and folk styles. And FYI: I still have my hearing, thank you very much. From all of those experiences, I don't believe that I have to step aside out of respect if or when I find myself disagreeing about how well or poorly something sounds. So I can't believe that some folks actually feel that these headphones have a balanced sound. I'm NOT a formally trained audio expert or professional, by any realistic measurement. But I feel that I've put in enough time and had enough exposure to be able to find a reasonably balanced audio experience for my own enjoyment. The Sony MDR-V150 headphones simply do NOT give me that experience. Perhaps with some significant equalization they would, but otherwise I have to disagree with a lot of the reviewers here. I've tried these headphones on an iPod Nano, a yellow Sony 'Sports' Walkman AM/FM cassette player, my MacBook Pro laptop computer, and the Sony MHC-GS200 stereo system that I run my HDTV's sound through. In each case the higher end of the range is clearly lacking in these headphones. Regardless of the music source, there's no crispness in instruments like snare drums or cymbals, and vocals, guitars and keyboards sound rather 'muddy' through the MDR-V150. I don't argue that for many folks these headphones may be just what they want; I'm just not swayed by their arguments for my own listening preferences. To each his or her own...
5	1298592000	I love these Headphones for the price you can't get any other headphones with the sound quality of these!Comfort: When i first got them they were tight but after using them awhile they loosen up.Sound Quality: Has the best sound quality compared to other products in its price range.Ease of Use: Uhh plug in and go. lolConstruction quality: The plastic is top quality, earphones pivot to accommodate your ears sticking out a bit.Other Thoughts:  Best value for your money, you wont regret this purchase. I have bought 3 of them i love them so much. I lost the first one and stepped on the second one.
2	1298592000	These are really tight!Delivers good bass, but sound is lacking on the high end.Construction is up to Sony's usual high standards.
5	1298505600	These headphones are the bomb. The sound quality is great and if you put your CD/mp3 player on full blast, it feels like they've vibrating on your head which is cool.You can hear things on these real clearly.These are the only pair of headphones that I've had that lasted me 3 years before I had to get new ones. Normally other headphones blow out on me within 2 months, not even. They also easily clamp down on your head, so you don't have to worry about them falling off, that's how tight they are. The only bad thing I have to say about the product is that the cord is long as hell. I have to keep it in a twist tie or rubber band. I could almost jump rope with it. Another issue is that if you live in a part of the country where it gets hot and humid, your ears start sweating and it sticks to your flesh and occasionally you have to take them off.
4	1298505600	I have owned 2 pairs of these both of which the headbands broke after a year.  But, if like me you can't stand earbuds and don't want to travel to school or on a train with an expensive pair of headphones these are great. I just bought a set of pioneers and yes the sound is better but I'm not gonna risk carrying them in my backpack but since these are cheap the risk isn't as great.
5	1298419200	I found the reviews for these headphones helpful. I'm not technical, don't understand anything about specs, I'm just a music lover and I trusted one of the reviewers (also figured it's just $14, so where's the risk?).GREAT HEADPHONES! Great sound--far superior to ear buds. They're also comfortable. No, they're not great for running, but I use them when at work, sitting in front of a computer all day. I also can't stand the idea of putting ear buds into my ears--that's just gross.
5	1298419200	I love the sound quality on this headphones! You can hear every single note, and you don't need to be blasting it to hear it all. It has nice bass, not too much, just right.
3	1298160000	Yeah these are dirt cheap for studio style headphones, but wow do they hurt your ears. The constant pressure starts to take its toll after wearing them for about an hour. I bought these to have a second set of headphones for monitoring sounds while I edit videos in my apartment at school, but you are better off purchasing the Plantronics game com headphones with the hidden mic atachment. I have worn the gamecom headsets for 6+ hours straight and barely have any discomfort. I don't usually leave negative reviews but I have no tucked these headphones in my desk drawer in case of an emergency and I need a set of headphones right away. (Hey at least they came with a 1/4 inch adapter lol)
4	1298160000	I can't comment on comfort, etc because I haven't used them - we bought a pair for each of our kids (8 and 5) to replace the earbuds that come with iPod etc.  The fit looks great, the kids wear them for long periods without complaining about discomfort, and from what I can hear when they take them off briefly, the sound quality seems excellent.  It's a WAY better choice for anyone than earbuds, but especially for kids!
5	1298160000	These are great with my mp3 player. The cord is long, but that works for me. They're okay for a stereo. The sound lacks a little bit of depth. But, for the price, they serve me well.
5	1298073600	About 5 years ago I purchased these same exact headphones. I use them for my job and leave them at my desk for daily use. Once they broke (the plastic surrounding the pin broke and one of the earphones fell out) I knew I had to replace them. I was happy to see that they are still available and snagged up another pair. The cord is nice and long so you can stand or move around in your chair with them on.  I don't use them on the go so I'm sure thats why they lasted so long. So if you are planning on using them for work, they will last a long time.If you are looking for a cheap quality pair of headphones, look no further. I do prefer the to hear through them if you have them low, which is good for the office.  I never turn it up half the way it could go, they are loud.  For the comments of them being so tight they hurt. Yes they are snug at first. If you have a bigger head, don't worry, they break in and fit perfect after a few uses.Highly recommend :)
4	1297641600	If your looking for your average headphones these are this is the way to go. Overall a very good sound. Great for price! But if your looking for something REALLY nice. Eh not so much
4	1297641600	I just got them today and just tried them on. I am quite satisfied with these compared to the Skullcandy Low Riders. Although, these are a bit tight on the head. I have a pretty small head and I'm a girl so it actually kinda hurts my ears, but only because I have studs, but they are a bit tight. I'm hoping that it will loosen a little once I break them in. These are light weight so convenient to carry around. If you're an audiophile, you should know better not to get these. If you just listen to music, watch movies/shows online, play games, etc. then these are worth getting. I'll only use these to listen to music so they're pretty good for the price. I got these when it was $12 something a few days ago so well worth it for me.
3	1297468800	This product is really tight and there is no way to adjust the level of tightness. You can only adjust its length but it does not helps in comfort level. I bought it after reading the reviews and low price, but the item is now sitting idle in my closet. The headphone compresses your temple and ear area if you put it on for more than half an hour. And my head is of average size. My gf has the same issue with this product.
2	1297468800	These have to be the most uncomfortable headphones I have ever owned.  They pinch your ears so after a half hour or so you have to take them off.  The sound is ok nothing special.  I really tried but I just can't use this style of headphone.  Might be good for a business who needs cheap headphones on short applications but other than that I can't see who else could really use these.  The price is good but in all honesty they are far too uncomfortable to be practical.  I'm gonna try out some seinheisser 555's even though they cost a little more I think comfort and sound are worth it.
2	1297209600	The headphones were nice. The cord was longer than I needed, but not too bad. The sound in one of the headphones broke in a week. Amazon doesn't accept returns without the original packaging, which I didn't have. It shipped in one of those plastic containers that you have to use scissors to open. I contacted Sony which is what you have to do when their product has a defect like this. It cost an additional $6.00 to mail them the item to be repaired or replaced. The quality was nice and they were enjoyable to use. My problem is with the support that Sony gives you after it's broke.
5	1296777600	I bought these head phones to monitor guitar playing and to listen to music. I think these are excellent headphones for the money.I'd recommend them as a basic pair of monitor type headphones. They are pretty comfy and they've held up -- I've had them for around 3 years and use them quite a bit (given the style of headphones they are).They would not be great for travel so if that is your intention, you best look at others.
5	1296691200	I purchased 5 of these head phones for my local Red Cross Blood Donor Center. I donate platelets every two weeks. For those who don't know it's about a two hour time frame from start to finish. Just right to watch a movie. Since their are other donors in attendance and since not everyone wants to watch the same thing they have individual TVs set up. They had junk phones. I did a little research and found these. They got decent reviews so I thought it was worth a shot. Upon delivery they only made one of the five available...so that they would not walk away and that replacements would be available when the other phones broke. I have donated twice since I purchased them and am extremely pleased with their quality. As a matter of fact they are better than I expected.
1	1296432000	Decent sounding headphones, especially for $15.  Unfortunately a tiny plastic piece broke on the right "hinge" when I was putting them on.  Flimsy would be an understatement, I had them for under a week.  I would recommend something more durable.
5	1296345600	Great, comfortable headphones for the very low price. The only disadvantage I can think of is that it's easy for my kids to remove the padding of the ear cups. I'm not sure why this padding needs to be removable, I would imagine that replacement cups would cost almost as much as the headphones.
3	1296345600	not the best sound quality good but sucks to put it on they kill after and hour but easyer than the cheap ipod types so i like it its ok get it but dont listen to music foreer your ears get hot
1	1295827200	I was given these as a present.  They had a full sound.  Initially they were comfortable but after an hour they hurt, especially with glasses.  After a month the plug broke off in the socket of me electric piano!  Pretty cheap construction.
3	1295568000	This is the 4th or 5th pair I've owned of the MDR V150's. I like them because they always had a flat but clear sound that helps when doing mixes for projects. If not these than its a set of [...] dollar headphones and after going through 2 sets of those these at 20 bucks a pop is what I go with.The first thing I can say is that yes these head phones are tight but really so is any head set you get. It's like a baseball glove you have to work it in. I usually just leave mine over my computers tower so it can stretch out and feel good. Once you get them to where they are comfortable they feel great. I wear these headphones about 40-50 hours a week and I mean it's important that they are comfortable.With all that aside I just wanted to get into the fact that I think Sony changed the mechanics of these phones up. The new pair I have doesn't sound nearly as good as my old pair of the same model I purchased maybe 1-2 years ago. These sound very very very flat to the point that they just aren't as attractive to listen to.Flat is good but these are too flat if that makes any sense. They truly are "studio Monitors" and I think a lot of people don't understand that. They just think they are normal headphones but they are supposed to sound flat. I can however clearly hear the difference between my new set and my old set and I prefer the older batch of them better. These actually sound cheap now.For twenty bucks It's hard to say if these are still worth it knowing they are not as good as the older ones. We'll see though.Update: 1/28/2011After breaking the set in they fit perfect now but what I want to bring to attention is that these new models are extremely base heavy. I mean they will hurt your ears. I constantly have to adjust the sound setting when using my computer. There's no way these are the same as the ones sold 2 years ago. They sound low quality flat and the bass is ear drum booming. Not a good combo.Update: 3/28/2011The set I based this review off of BROKE! the headphone jack snapped right out. These definitely are not the same as the ones before. They were much stronger. Luckily I went to a major retailer and asked if they had any more of these in stock. 10 minutes later the guy comes back from the stock room with 5 "dusty" headphone sets. YUP! he found old inventory of the MDR-V150's Big difference. They sound better than the newer MDRV150's and they fit better. The only difference to tell them apart is the packaging. So hopefully if you find a set it's the older version.
2	1295222400	My primary complaint with this product is that it is easily breakable and not designed for the wear-and-tear that comes with heavy use or light traveling. I knew at the outset that the plastic portions would be more fragile, so I took care in how I packaged them when taking them anywhere. They still broke in about 6 weeks--perhaps I shouldn't have expected much based on the price. Seriously, don't expect portability. So, if you're not planning on putting them in a bag or taking them anywhere, and only plan to use them at a desk, they're fine for the money. But unless you want to have to replace them every 2 months, consider spending more to get a more durable pair.
4	1295136000	They are a great product for the price, reasonably comfortable and durable.  Last about a year of pretty heavy use and just being tossed into a bag. I have bought them twice.
4	1294790400	There are decent headphones for the price but their weakness is the mini plug. I lost one side after bumping the plug. Being a decent electronic technician and having some parts on hand, I replaced the mini plug with a full size stereo plug (1/4" Switchcraft -- I was using these for a small recording console). Afterward I dissected the mini plug and could easily see how tenuous the internal connections are. The quality of the cable itself is quite good.Also, if you are going to wear them for hours on end, you might consider moving up to a model that has circumaural (around-ear rather than on-ear) design. These can feel tight after a while.So if one side stops working, it's the plug. Just treat it gently, maybe use some kind of strain relief on the cable so it does tug inside the plug.
5	1294790400	I have purchased these twice over 6 years, the only reason for this is that I used them so much. They are extremely comfortable---so much so that I can sleep with them on (the main reason I have had to buy them twice)---contrary to many of the negative reviews and I have quite a large head. The sound quality is fantastic and, unless you require professional studio quality headphones, these are the best you can get. They're also quite stylish and match all of my sony products.
5	1294531200	I have been using these Sony headphones for 7 years and they sound great. I use to use them when I goto the store or other places with my mom but now I use them when I goto the library, or when I' am at home, etc by myself. I do use them to listen to my mu...sic, playing video games, etc on my computer. They do have very clear sound and good bass, mids and highs like big studio or stereo speakers. Overall these headphones are pretty flat response so you can use them in the recording studio. I do wish that the highs were little more brighter though but for $20 they are great.When I put these headphones on for couple hours I do take them off since they start to feel kinda hot at times. They only hurt if I put them on wrong like I have to make sure the earpads are placed right on my ears so they don't put pressure on one area too much.Sony has been making these headphones since 1999 so for the price these headphones must of been popular since then. I did get them around 2004 and they still work good as new since I take care of my stuff.
4	1294444800	great price....great quality sound and construction...only prob for me is it starts to hurt the cartilage on top of my ears after a while
4	1294185600	Bought these for my daughter to use with her stereo and MP3.  Better than the buds that came with the MP3 and blocks out significant noise from outside.  I could have gotten better but would have spent a lot more money.  For us, these were perfect.
5	1294012800	I was given a $50.00 gift card for amazon this Christmas. As I was browsing music I realized that I needed headphones for my MP3 player. I began looking and saw these. At first sight I thought maybe they weren't that great, at least not for the price they were. I decided to give them a try though not expecting much more than a basic set of headphones. Boy was I surprised! I had no idea how much of the songs I was loosing in my factory laptop speakers. I hear everything clear and smooth. These are by far the best headphones I have ever owned! Another thing that surprised me was the comfort. The over ear style is all I will ever buy from now on. These headphones are especially great when plugged into by Electric Guitar Amplifier. It's a great way to listen loud and clear without annoying anyone. If I had to give this one through ten, I would give it a nine(nothing's perfect). I would recommend this to everyone from rare users to 24/7 music lovers. Price not being a factor, this is a great deal.
4	1294012800	These headphones are provided as the rental headphones for the library at my college, and I enjoyed them so much I ended up buying a pair.They are comfortable, and they adjust well enough to fit on my small head, and my brother's enormous head (He's adopted, so he has bigger genes).I'm no audiophile, but I enjoy the extra full, rich sound that just doesn't come from my ear-buds. There's a lot fuller bass, and you can pick out the individual pieces of what you are listening to more so on than on my (admittedly cheap) ear-buds.The cord is nice and long, which is a two sided coin. On the one side, it gets really annoying if you are walking and listening to music. However, when i was wanting to take care of my laundry while listening to Pandora on my laptop, i was grateful for the long cord.  The cord is rubberized for anti-tangle (another two-sided coin) so while it doesn't get into knots, it is very springy and slightly difficult to stuff out of the way. But, I've never had it tangle on me, so there you go.One star is missing because they are not foldable in any way, so I'm a bit worried that I will break them if i travel with them.But, for the price, they are fantastic headphones, and I would definitely recommend to a friend.
1	1293926400	I had 2 pairs of these headphones. I liked them. Then one day sound stopped coming out of one ear. I exchanged them at the store. But what do you know... a couple months down the line these did the same thing. The plug also came detached in the jack on my computer, and separate from the cord. Obviously not made to last.
5	1293753600	It's a nice buy and everything sounds great. The problem is that after a few hours, it starts to become a little uncomfortable.
5	1293753600	I was looking for a good set of headphones but I did not want to spend a big amount of money.I started reviewing products and found this set. Good price, nice sound and the plug fits perfect through the iPod aluminum case, besides, its size would not make my computer backpack bulky either.Great comfort, good price/sound and great portability. Why would I spend more?
4	1293580800	I bought these headphones for about $20.  They are a great deal for the price. The reason I'm giving them 4 stars is because I wear glasses and the headphones cause discomfort when I wear them.  Yet I expected that and it happens with all on ear headphones.  I'm returning them for some over the ear headphones in hope that they will not be as uncomfortable. I know this is a personal problem. Overall, great headphones! (If only I had contacts...);)
5	1293580800	I bought these headphones for my two kids nearly two years ago and they are still going strong.  My kids use them for watching a portable DVD Player while travelling on planes and sometimes in the car.  They work very well, and are fairly kid proof, meaning that they have indured multiple sibling spats in the back seat of the car without getting damaged.  I have tried them as well, and find the sound quality to be excellent. This is another excellent product from SONY!
2	1293580800	Just get something around the sixty dollar range because this one broke after less than three months. I guess I get what I paid for. Since this doesn't have noise canceling this is nothing compare to regular ear buds. At the same time I should had used a pair of ear buds to listen to music when I am in the public. O yeah, the construction of the overhead sometimes pulled my hair, be aware of that. Like I said get a Sony with noise canceling, the collapsible one is amazing... cheap too!
4	1293494400	When I broke my iPod ear phones, I wanted to get new ones, but I didn't want to pay 30 dollars again, so I looked for cheaper ones on Amazon and I came across these. I read most of the reviews and learned about the differences between headphones and the iPod ear phones and I became convinced to buy these babies. Which I did and was very happy with my purchase.It took some getting used to but I eventually got used to having something on my ears instead of in them. Plus, the sound quality was just amazing. Learned to appreciate sounds and music a bit more, as well. Overall, I love these head phones. Just sad that mine broke recently...
5	1293235200	I have about four headsets and this one has become my favorite. The ear cushions are very comfortable and the price is very attractive. I have not had anyone complain about voice quality. I use it several times a day with an adapter and my magic jack phone system.
5	1293235200	The following is an excerpt from a post on my old blog, which you can probably find by copying and pasting a selection of the following and dropping it into Google's search box with quotes around it.=========I remember when I first decided I wanted, needed V150's. I first took serious notice of them in early 2007. I was perusing Rock Records in The Loop, a music store whose longevity is nothing short of a miracle in the sky-high rent neighborhood of Chicago's business district. I already owned a pricey pair of Koss, but they were so quiet they were hard to hear sometimes, and so heavy that wearing them gave me headaches. Then there's the pair of RadioShack 1225's I had recently bought, a lucky find whose quality defied their relatively generic brand name and $25 price tag. The 1225's extra appeal was individual volume controls for each cup, which allows you to isolate pans. But they made me look like Princess Leia, and the cable was really short.I normally scoff at Sony's inflated brand value, which I'm convinced is the reason for their ridiculously high prices on most technologies available cheaper from other manufacturers at comparable quality. But the MDR-V150's caught my eye and held it. They were smaller than the massive cans I was wearing at that moment, which looked like boxing gloves hanging around my neck when I slid them back off my ears. And the Sonys were only $20. But even that was an unjustifiable splurge in my undergraduate, big city poverty, and counting the earbuds that came with my iPod, I already had three other pair (which wasn't really a reason not to buy them; indeed, I needed the new pair to solve a problem created by the others. But non-understanders would argue this point).I held off that day. But last summer, when my girlfriend and I were getting ready to leave for France, she bought a pair of MDR-V150's at retail from Best Buy. Jealous and eager to spite her by doing better, I found a new pair on Amazon for about $15 and bought them impulsively. I went to her to gloat, then returned to the computer and bought a used pair on eBay for $6.I took the used pair to France, leaving the new ones at home as a back-up. (I like to have two of everything I like. Ever since I was little, I've been afraid of my finer stuff breaking and having to settle for an inferior replacement because the original is no longer available.) The used pair didn't make it all the way through the adventure, but I'll be damned if they didn't sound rich and heavy like dark chocolate cake, and they worked long after their first several breaks.Audio experts and studio monkeys will tell you (and have told me) that the MDR-V150's are lacking in high-end response and that, consequently, they are too bass-heavy. I set my iPod's EQ to "treble boost" and was satisfied with the compromise.I recommend them to you without reservation.
3	1292976000	I purchased this product based on positive reviews. That was a mistake. These have small on the ear pads and as such squish my ears. I can't even wear these for five minutes. The sound seems fine so I will give them to a small child.
5	1292976000	Easy pick for a quick decision, and a money saver. These are tough headphones that fit right over your ears and plug in to most audio headphone jacks.When worn correctly even wearing glasses these do not press hard against my skull which is amazing. The audio quality is great, i almost forget i have speakers on, and the better the speakers the better the quality. Knowing the Sony brand and the quality of its products for years, i am not disappointed one bit.the cable length is great also, I mostly use these for gaming when I need the highest of attention to sound I can. They do the job amazingly well for what was initially $20.
5	1292889600	Amazing sound plugged into my old Philips 2 GB mp3 player.  So much better than "earbuds"... totally different sound, and you don't have to worry about them falling out.  They're very comfortable.  This "on-the-ear" type is the way to go, if you don't mind how they look out in public.  Obviously a little more noticeable than the buds.  But it's worth it for the great sound quality. Also, they can be about as loud as you want - I was surprised my old mp3 player would drive this much volume.
4	1292889600	have been using the headphones for a few weeks, great sound, not too loud and dont hurt my ears as bad as some of the comfort models i have used so i am pleased.  wish i would have waited a few more weeks tho cause they arent exactly the ones i wanted but hey, still good headphones if you are looking for some cheep headphones to use for gaming.
4	1292716800	Great Set of headphones but... the chord is too long.. This wouldn't be a problem if I was using them in a car or maybe a dj booth...I use them for my mp3 player when walking to class or jogging.The sound quality is great and the price i paid for them was even better.
5	1292198400	These sony headphones are wonderful. They allow you to hear your music clear, crisp, and with more detail and they are very comfortable.They can get very loud while still retaining the quality of your music.  Once you buy these listen to your favorite song with your old headphones then use these, the difference is AMAZING! my sister and I both own and love these Sony headphones. Best headphones I've ever owned!!! A Must Buy
4	1291680000	hi, i just received my mdr v150's and lo and behold, they were stupid tight.  i boiled a pot of water, turned it off. i placed the center of the headband{(where the center is cut out)in the water,  and held that part in the hot water for about 15-20 seconds. i took it out and quickly dried it off with a towel. you can than carefully reshape the band to fit your head. i think i will also put a peace if foam, self stick weatherstripping( the kind used around doors)on the inside of the band and this will be a great, cheap pair of headphones.  it was worth the few minutes it took. viola
1	1291680000	Without getting technical, these things just hurt to wear. I've been wanting a pair of on ear, or over ear headphones. I went cheap and got these. I can't listen to them for more than 15 minutes without getting a headache. I have a pair of skull candy titan ear buds that sound so much better than these. They aren't exceptionally comfortable either, but I can wear them for a few hours at least. The sound from these Sony's sounds muffled to me. Back to the drawing board. Trying to find the right pair with a great sound, great comfort, and great price. These definitely aren't them.
5	1291593600	For $15 shipped, these headphones are amazing.I use these for home recording where I don't want the headphones to "color" the sound; these work well. Sure there are much better headphones but I am satisfied with these and considering the price, I'd say I'm very pleased.The cord is a reasonable length (about 6 feet, I think) and seems durable. The fit is fairly comfortable, my biggest complaint might be that they sometimes feel as if I have them on backward (left to right)because the headpones don't swivel. This is very minor and doesn't bother me but I do sometimes notice it.I would buy again and recommend as well.
5	1291507200	I've been looking around for a decent set of headphones that's not too thick and ones that weren't the earphones. All I can really say is, "Thank you, Santa!"These headphones have some of the best sound quality headphones that I've seen in a long while. The headphones fit comfortably, good long extension cord, comfortably fit around my neck, doesn't really cause any stress on my head (referenced from past reviews). The only thing that I would change about these headphones is that the durability could be improved. The design is fine as it is, but there should have been more bracing or something because these headphones are made to not take any sort of abuse whatsoever. If these headphones drop, there's a large chance they could break upon impact.
2	1291420800	After several months of use, the plug stopped working and had a loose connection, so that only one side would work sometimes.They also don't cancel out room noise very well.
1	1291334400	I would not recommend this product.I work in a studio that just bought these phones in bulk. A big mistake.These headphones do not provide an accurate representation of the music you want to listen to. I know they're cheap, but I've bought other cheap headphones for reference that are far better than these. Like the Sennheiser PX100.The phones are muddy. The low mids 300-800s have overwhelming presence. The high's above 10k do as well. As a result, this creates an undefined sound with a muddy bass lacking punch, vocals that get buried, and a lack luster performance overall.I would never mix with these phones due to a desire to overcompensate by over-carving & creating an unbalanced mix.I understand just wanting a cheap pair of headphones to listen to music with. I don't wear studio headphones when I walk about or exercise listening to music. But these are worse than other cheap headphones out there.My advise is to bring in a CD of music you know really well & enjoy & try on different headphones to find the pair that fits the sound you're looking for.
4	1290556800	These are really good studio headphones, wondeful sound. I am a bit rough and tough on my headphones, so I've sustained a bit of damage due to lazily throwing them into my backpack. But even with a nick, the sound is still great. Timely delivery, very satisifed.
5	1290384000	Very comfortable set of headphones at an attractive price point. Sound quality is excellent given the cost. Cable length is more than ample for my needs. If you need to wear headphones for an extended period of time, these are highly recommended. Great for in-flight use.
1	1289952000	Bought this for my netbook because sound is very low on it (as reported by reviews when I purchased it) and bought headphones as other netbook purchasers suggested.  The volume WITH the headphones is LOWER than without them.  Very disappointed.
1	1289520000	I really don't mind these headphones except for one thing- THEY HURT. My ears start hurting after less than an hour of use. These sit directly on top of your ears, not around them. Also, for someone with a big head (like me), they are a really tight fit.For $15, you are getting what you pay for, but there are certainly better headphones on the market. I don't recommend these.
5	1289260800	I had been on the market looking for headphones... forever... I was even tempted to get on of the "bose" ones, then saw a collegue with one of those, so I decided to get one... BEST DECISOIN OF MY LIFE.... it is working perfectly fine and it is just what I was looking for without spending too much money... thank you Amazon, and thank you Sony for making such great product!!!!! ((8
2	1289174400	I was so excited to get this Sony headphones at only [...] with free shipping. It looked well made considering the cost and comfortable on my ears. But when it comes to the sound quality, I can not say I agree with the most other reviews here. I'm wondering how the others can leave such good reviews. The most unfavorable thing isit has egaggerated bass. So boomy that you can not here the exact sound of the original recording. I tried to give some break in times but after 3 days of trying, I gave up and returning this poor headphones back to Amazon. Thank you Amazon for your easy way of returning.
4	1289174400	I purchased this product based on the reviews here at Amazon and I am very happy with my purchase. I have been using these for the last 2 months now and found these to be very nice. They were a little tight on the head for couple of weeks, but after that they're comfortable. The sound quality is very good. I wear 'em on my way to office and back. For $15, they're the best buy, IMHO.
1	1288828800	I thought I was getting something good because of the Sony brand and the cushy-looking pads (despite being in a Wal Mart).  It sounds as if someone turned the "tone" or treble all the way down --no highs.  Giving mine away.  Try before you buy!
5	1288656000	I bought these for work. The sound is good and the cushions are fairly comfortable. They're not too clunky while big enough to let people know I'm busy. ;-)I'd buy these again.
5	1288224000	Sure, they are not $100 noise-cancelling headphones.  But for $15, they are easily the best stereo headphones I have ever used.  The sound quality is astounding, very loud bass.  They are also extremely comfortable, I had them on for over an hour, and the cartilage in my ears were pain free.  Highly recommended!
2	1288051200	The headphones offer decent sound quality for the price.  Not great; if you intend to listen to CDs of classical music then these are definitely not for you.  Fine for mp3 quality recordings.Unfortunately, the headphones are very uncomfortable due to their inflexibility.  I put up with it for a few months, never being able to wear them for more than a half hour or so before I had to give my head a break from the compression.  At that point the piece that stabilizes one of the earcups broke from normal handling, and now they are essentially worthless.  The earpiece won't stay flat against my head anymore.Sony offers no electronic support and their only phone support is not toll-free, inexcusable for such a huge company.  Not going to waste my money on Sony's junk headphones ever again.
5	1287964800	These headphones have decent sound quality. They have lasted me the longest out of any pair I have owned.
4	1287964800	Pros: Great Sound, great price, solid construction, long cable, receiver adapterCons: Can get uncomfortable for people who wear glasses.Bought these after reading the reviews. Have been using them for a couple of months. The sound quality is really good. These do sit a little tight over the ears and can be uncomfortable if you wear glasses if worn for a long time. Beats every pair of earphones I ever owned. And since the construction is really solid I don't have to worry about pulling out any wires. Use them exclusively except when I go to the gym. Best value for the price.
1	1287100800	There is no doubt that these Headphones are worthless if you are looking for accurate music reproduction. One reviewer blamed the bad reviews on people not understanding "the specs" and full spectrum sound, but the problem is the headphones do not live up to the specs they claim and there is no full spectrum sound coming from these headphones.  If you don't mind listening to flat listless music then you may not regret buying this item. They may be OK for listening to news reports or book readings but if you are looking for music to sound they way it was meant to when it was produced you had better look elsewhere.
4	1287014400	I've had these Sony MDR-V150's since 2004, and I use them daily. No issues other than some minor discomfort after a couple hours (+6) of use. Was going to bu a set of Bose headphones, but these things won't die - and with that being said, I highly recommend them over some more expensive brands, as long as you are not a hardcore audiophile.Cheers!
2	1286496000	While I had no problem with the sound quality, I was only able to enjoy these headphones for a short bit.The headphones were too tight from the start and quickly made my ears hurts.  It's even worse if you wear glasses as it causes your earpieces to dig into your skin from the pressure.After a few short weeks of use the one of the tabs that hold the actually ear pieces in place broke.  These tabs that hold the ear pieces from moving are very small and it's amazing they even last more than a few days.
4	1285804800	The earphones are pretty comfortable and sound nice. I don't know if I'd use them for music, but I bought them as a gift for an aspiring filmographer and he seems to enjoy them just fine. He was using earbuds at first, so they're an obvious step up. Good price.
5	1285632000	I'm extremely happy with these headphones. I was skeptical that I would get a good product for such a low price, but the headphones surpassed my expectations. They are very comfortable - which was a key point for me - but I am also amazed at how good they sound. I listen to audio books and meditation CDs on it. The adaptor makes them versatile, too. I highly recommend these headphones.
3	1285372800	I actually had no problem with this headset but after a couple of uses a piece of the headset broke off which caused the adjustment head band to not work properly. It might have been done to my destructive little sister (11yrs) but another important part of the headphones broke off causing both ear pieces to come off the head band and it took some interesting taping to make sure it would stay in place. Didn't even last me a year but I loved the long cord.  Great while it lasted.
3	1285200000	These headphones might produce better sound than the ones that came with your iPod, but it will clamp on your head and hurt your ears so that you'd rather not be listening to music. This is especially bad if you wear glasses. Unless your head is particularly small, I do not recommend this product. Nor do I recommend this product to anyone who wants to use it on a mp3-player or an iPod because the cable is much too long. It seems to be designed to be used on a desktop where the headphone slot is in the back of the computer. The things used to make these also seem very cheap, and I won't be surprised if mine break like everyone elses.In short: these are uncomfortable and the wire is too long.
5	1284854400	Hands down the best over the ear headphones you can get at this price point. Though lightweight, the construction is solid, and the sound is as crisp an solid as headphones that are quadruple the price. But these!
5	1284768000	Quality & Construction A+. Sound quality excellent. Excellent frequency range. A little tight on my head, but the ear cups are soft and very comfortable. Nice heavy, high quality wires. 2 plugs for different audio connections. I use the headphones on my laptop and I could not be more satisfied. Great value.
4	1284768000	This is the second pair. The plug broke on the first one after a few months.
5	1284681600	People in other reviews said these get uncomfortable after prolonged use but I have yet to experience it. I have long hair also and no snags. The sound quality is real nice and as far as them not getting loud, they get loud enough for me to rip them off my head. Real good value for the money.
5	1283904000	These are simply great headphones. For 15 dollars, there's no way to get anything better. They isolate the listener from the outside world, greatly improving the listening experience. I would recommend these to anyone who's looking for an affordable set of headphones.
2	1283731200	I bought these on the basis of the reviews, the price and the need to cut down on sound in a mildly noisy workspace. I'd say that there is about a 10 percent reduction in noise, even with music playing; much less than I expected. I don't recommend these and should have done more research. And they aren't very comfortable either.
5	1283385600	These head phones are very nice and comfortable. The sound quality is great. When you first take them out of the package though they look like guitar head phones at the end, like they would plug into an amp. or something but you just take that off and it plugs into anything else like an ipod.
4	1283126400	These headphones Are pretty stellar for the money. I spent a lot of time trying to find an everyday headphone to replace the horrible little ear buds that come standard with so many mp3 devices.The sound quality is really good, and you can't beat simple black for style. My only complaint would be that they fit rather tight on your ears/head - not a deal breaker for me though. The cord is also very very long.
4	1282780800	These are great headphones for the price. They are comfortable and they have great sound. They actually have some bass. The only problem is the chord is like really long so these are great for a studio, but the string can get in the way if you are just relaxing with them on.
4	1282694400	The ear phones are good quality, but each phone has a wire hanging down forming a "Y". This is clumsy  and a pain. Wires get twisted quickly and messy to untangle.  Why not one wire to the Phones?.The head band construction is a cheap plastic and can be broken easily if you sit or step on them... Not something for kids...
2	1282694400	This product sounds great with good bass and balance, but after a week the left ear cup broke
5	1282176000	This is my third pair of MDR-V150's and I love them - the first pair did not survive me - the second pair did not survive my children. We are all tough on headphones, headsets, etc. It's survival of the fittest.Am using this pair of V150's with a Sansa Fuze - and they sound great - much much much better than IPod earbuds - I'm a bass player and need to hear the bass line to enjoy the music, plain and simple - cupped headphones seem to be able to provide the "sound" I'm looking for - full, rich - with some power... They are also quite loud and they come with a sturdy cable.Picked these up for $15.99 at Best Buy - just ask for the website price - they will give it to you.Compared the sound to some Sony swayback headphones (they are okay), Earbuds, and also checked out some other headphones - these sound great - I might also pick up a pair of Koss Porta Pros because they are great also - but look - these headphones are very low cost, easy to find, they fit my huge noggin just fine and they sound GREAT - and if they break? I'll go grab another pair.The Winner and Champion of low cost headphones -the Sony V150's - try them out yourself.
2	1282176000	I'm always trying new headphones, I've owned everything from Coby,Grado to Dr Dre's. Well this is another pair to throw in my headphone drawer. They sound like twenty five dollar headphone! better than some not as good as others. The thing that sets them apart from others in the price range is after you wear them for a short period of time, twenty five minutes or so your ears get unbearably hot,which is annoying and uncomfortable. I gave them a shot and now they are exiled to my file drawer with the other disappointments like the Sennheiser HD 20's and the Skullcandy lowrider camo. (Skullcandy in ear headphones are great sounding). Invest your money in something else other than these sauna cans.
5	1282176000	I'm not an expert, but these headphones are just great for ipod, laptop, etc.  I had an identical pair for about two years and they were used so much that they just finally gave up the ghost, in that the headband came apart and the ear cup's covering wore through.  But, they continued to work.  So, when I shopped for another pair of headphones, after reviewing many listed on Amazon, I came right back to these.  Good sound quality, good bass, comfortable, and priced right.
5	1282089600	It's amazing how tough it is to find a decent set of headphones that are comfortable to wear for long periods of time and deliver good sound. After purchasing a few different sets of earphones to use at work for both music and work related media I found that ear buds were just not comfortable and the standard foam headphones not only weren't comfortable but didn't do enough to block out outside noise. After borrowing a pair of MDR-V150's I quickly ordered a pair for myself, the sound was comparable to headsets that cost much more, they were very comfortable for long periods of use and blocked out distracting outside noise. I now find myself taking them back and forth from home to work and am seriously considering purchasing a second set to keep at home.
5	1282089600	I'm pleased with these headphones.  They work just fine for a typical music listener.
1	1280966400	To start off, there was nothing wrong with these headphones in terms of sound quality, comfort, or price. To some, that's all that matters.What did irk me about these, was the fact that I only got 4 days of use out of them before the cups became detached from the headset, rendering them all but unusable without using liberal amount of glue, tape, and general fixing.I realize that for a cheap pair of headphones I shouldn't be expecting much, but can't I at least get a few months out of a product without it breaking almost entirely?Would not recommend to future customers on that basis. If you're ok with that, then go right ahead.
5	1280707200	My sister has a very small head and other headphones were just too big. She loves these; they fit perfectly and the sound is amazing. It was a perfect gift for her. This Sony brand headphones would be great for children or adults with smaller head sizes(My sister is a petite woman) The shipping was fast and packaged nicely. I would recommend this brand.
5	1280707200	After getting tired of having my music drowned on on the daily light-rail commute I decided to get some headphones rather than earbuds. I happened to pick these up at Ross (a discount store) and was floored when I got home and tried them.The range of sound is amazing. The best way to describe the audio is RICH. I am now enjoying listening to music intensely, going through my old music collection rediscovering how the songs were supposed to sound.Now, I thought this amazing sound quality was due to the difference between ear buds and these style of headphones. I was wrong. My fiancee, after trying my new headphones wanted to get a pair but bought a different brand. The sound was average, being not much better than ear buds.I very highly recommend these affordable headphones to anyone who really cares about listening to music.EDIT:After a length of use. I do NOT recommend these headphones for those that have a big head. They did not flex over time to my slightly-above average noggin. They broke where the top band meets the sides. I can slide it back together but it will fall apart often. Headphones of this audio quality should have a higher flexibility in the design for people of all head sizes.
5	1280620800	I bought these to use with my iPhone and iPod when I am doing some activity that might beat up my more expensive but excellent Sony studio monitor headphones ( MDR7506 ) such as when I get out of the shower and my hair is wet or working in my work shop.  I have completely given up on the Apple head phones; the sound is quite excellent for the price but they tilt in my ear and get totally mufled in a few seconds of putting them in.These Sony MDR V150 phones are just perfect for the rough use I bought them for:They plug right into my first generation iPhone with out having to use a jack addapter ( my studio Sonys need an adaptor; the Monster one is excellent; Monster 3.5-mm Headphone Adapter for iPhone 1G ; have used  same one for years no prob. = I don't agree with all the negative reviews).Smaller V150  phones allows me to shave and still continue to listen to my podcasts.  I don't worry about getting soap or water on them like I do with the prized  MDR7506 studio monitors.They are lighter and fit tighter so stay on better when bending down when working.Very nice, durable, strain relief on the well made plug.Good enough quality sound in a throw away (and buy another pair just like them), durable, inexspensively priced, headphone.
5	1280620800	Grrrreat sounding headphones for a cheap price. For those of us who are worried we'll lose them, sit on them or break them some other way and therefore, can't makes sense enough to justify buying a really good expensive set, these are the next best thing!! Great bass sound, and super clear. I've been buying them for 10 years!! Definitely sturdy enough to last you at LEAST 2 years with lots of wear and tear ;) Hope this review helped!
4	1280620800	These headphones are an excellent value in the $15 - $20 range. They are a little snug on the head at first but will loosen up over time. Sound quality is very good although I did expect a bit more on the low frequency end but nothing  to complain about. If you're the type that cannot where ear buds, these are something you really cannot pass up at this price.
5	1280188800	When I picked this thing up it was for the following reasons, (a) I wanted some new on ear phones for comfort, (b) I play drums and wanted something to use so I could play along with songs, and (c) My other ear phones gave shallow sound quality that left me wanting some nicer headphones. Of all the reasons that I got this item it blasted all my expectations out of the water. Then again this is Sony most of their stuff is real quality stuff. For the price can't beat it, so if you are wondering whether to get it or not the answer is simply HELL YES!
5	1280016000	I have used several headphones on my mp3 player but this headphone really improves the sound quality
5	1280016000	NEEDED BETTER SOUND AT THE GYM AND EAR BUDS JUST SUCK,UNLESS ISPEND A MINT. MY BROTHER BOUGHT THESE A WAL MART FOR $25 AND I GOT THEM ON AMAZON FOR $15. TWO DAYS LATER I HAVE QUALITY SOUND I CAN PLUG INTO MY CELL PHONE WITH NO PROBLEM.SOUNDS JUST AS GOOD AS ANY CRAPPY IPOD. LUV UM!!!!
4	1279497600	These headphones are Awesome for the price i must say, at first they lacked treble and sound like they had too much bass but after you bleed them for 24 hours at about average volume (70% volume) they gain better sound quality and gain some of the aspects which they lacked. these are by fare better in sound i would way 6-8x's better than the MDRNC7/BLK Noise Canceling on-ear headphones which Sony has out, they would've been ideal in that shell but oh well  nothings always perfect but. i would definitely recommend these to anyone who wishes to save money and get the right sound feedback from their Recordings and or Music Listening. well this is my review, just remember to Bleed them first (i did mine with my PSP playing music at about 70-75% volume overnight, and when i listened to them, much of the aspects which they lacked came into par, so bleed willingly ^_^)
5	1279411200	Going to keep it short.  I don't think you can find better headphones for 15 dollars.  I've had my set for several years now and they are still working great.  They have very noticeable wear now, but they are still structurally solid.I recently bought a Sennheiser Headset and its sound quality for music (rock) is only marginally better, yet it cost more than 10 times as much.  Extremely impressive.
5	1279152000	I've had a pair of these headphones for several years and would definitely recommend them for anyone who wants some good-sounding headphones for a low price. The headphones provide a pretty full sound, and the padding around the ears helps keep out noise from the outside. Also the cord is quite long, so you can go a few feet from your music without yanking the headphones off of your head.My one small complaint is that they start to become a bit uncomfortable after a couple hours of use. This could have to do with how snugly they fit around my head. Repositioning them slightly when I notice discomfort usually takes care of the problem for a little while longer.
3	1278979200	I like the sound quility, but it is a tight fit & they break VERY easy. I have broke 2-3 sets & will buy the more expensive version next time. It is not a bad head phone.When I say break I mean the plastic ear pieces. It always breaks in the same spot too. The head phone keep working, but you have to put them yo to you ears. So it must be a manufacturing issue. They should re-engineer these. I really do like them & you can't beat the price though. I just wish they would last longer then a few weeks. They should not break so fast & in the same splace everytime. I used to use super glue, but now I need an upgrade & plan on buying the higher quality Sony ones. Can't wait! At least I have Prime & can have it shipped the next day for $3.99 or have it delivered for free using second day delivery.
5	1278806400	I recently came across these headphones from a friend of mine and I tried once and fell in love with them.. They high grade studio gear guaranteed all day cuz
2	1278806400	While the sound quality is quite good for the price, the lack of comfort is a huge drawback. After about 25 minutes of wearing these headphones the pressure against one's ears becomes unbearable. These headphones are terrible for long flights, but great for a short 30 minute music jam session. There are definitely better head phones out there.
5	1278547200	Im with all the others who rate this 4 and 5 stars which is obviously the majority, for only 15 bucks i couldnt find a better  alternative, i tried skullcandy lowriders, jvc flats and a few others and none of them sounded as good as these. 4 people in my family got a pair of these and we all love them. Sony is by far in the top 5 for great sound quality products.
4	1278547200	GOOD HEADSET. I BOUGHT IT TO LISTEN TO CHINESE LANGUAGE TAPES AND IT WORKS VERY WELL FOR THE PRICE I PAID.
4	1277942400	I'd been looking for headphones that weren't ear buds and that didn't look like Princess Leia's ear buns, and these fit the bill. The price was terrific, too. I used them on a long flight and they were perfect. The fit was great and I could hear everything quite well. Unfortunately, due to the confines of an airline seat, I accidentally snapped off the connector mid-flight and I had to use the airline headphones. I could really tell how good these headphones were then. The difference between crappy airline headphones and these was astounding. I'm going to buy another pair just to make sure I have them available whenever I need them!
5	1277424000	I've had 2 of these in the pass, but they last much longer than any other earphones I've had and that's why I like it.
5	1277424000	These are very VERY great headphones. I was going to buy some more expansive headphones, but ended up buying these at wal-mart (20 dollars, say 5 bucks buying it here.) I'm very happy, some complain about the base, but it seems fine to me. I'm also happy because if they break, I can buy a new pair for $[...] bucks.
5	1277337600	These are the best head phones I have ever had. Sound quality is great and they are light weight. This is the second set I have owned.
2	1277164800	I bought these headphones quite a while ago and have been experiencing many problems with them. First I noticed that if I left them on my ears for too long my ears would begin to hurt. They also don't block out outside noise very well, so that if there is music going on from a television in the background it can sometimes interfere with whatever I happen to be listening to. Most annoying of all though is that the plug for the headphones doesn't fit into my computer correctly so that sometimes if thee plug gets jiggled around or so much as even touch it the sound will mess up getting staticy and losing a track, and I have to fiddle around with the plug for a few minutes to get the sound back on track and after a while doing this get's very annoying.Overall I think these are very poor quality headphones, and that is very dissapointing.But I have to admit they do work and if you don't intend on using them for an extended period they'll get the job done, just don't count on quality.
4	1277078400	I've owned one of these headphones for a number of years, using them with my computer and ipod. They have a great sound range and are comfortable to wear, though the adjusters could easily be obnoxious if you have long hair (which I don't, so this has never bothered me). Really the only thing I don't like about these is that the portion of the cord after the split, leading up to the headphones, has an obnoxious tendency to curl up and get tangled on itself.After several years of use, my pair died; now only the right side actually emits any sound. Even still, I'm planning on buying another set because of the headphones I've used I have yet to find one that matches the balance between comfort, sound quality, and price as these.
5	1276819200	I have had these headphones for 5 years. After 4 years, the plastic that holds the ear phone to the head band fell apart on both sides, which I fixed with some glue & they just recently broke beyond repair. I'm most likely going to buy another pair because I think 5 years of student-use is an amazing life span for headphones!I am moderately picky about sound quality and I thought these were great; there's actually bass in the music as opposed to ear buds that filter it out completely. Another thing I cannot stand about ear buds is that they fall out way too easy when these stay secured to your head when you're working or just plain don't feel like dealing with putting the bud back in your ear every 12 seconds. I also don't prefer the feel of plastic being crammed in my ears.Some people are complaining about the fit being too tight which is a little understandable. When you first buy them, they're brand new & just like a new pair of shoes, they will tend to feel awkward & uncomfortable until they shape out a little and you get used to them.All in all, I would recommend these headphones! I'm not used to buds and you may not be used to on-ear headphones, so they might be uncomfortable for a while but the mild discomfort you may feel for the first month or so is well worth the amazing sound quality & durability!
1	1276473600	It does not matter what these headphones sound like; using them is too painful. The cups are mashed against your ears so tightly that you won't be able to enjoy whatever sound is coming out of the speakers.After 5 minutes your ears will feel hot, after 7 minutes they will start to throb, after 10 minutes you'll start to get a nasty headache, after 12 minutes you'll struggle with the head band trying to find some way to adjust this torture device, after 15 minutes you'll realize you've wasted your money and you'll want to write a bad review.From now on I'm never buying any thing I can't try on first.
5	1276387200	I like this headphone for the sound quality, comfort, and price. Before buying it I was a bit hesitant. Sony means quality, but the price got me a bit worried. How good can it be? For such a low price? And it's a Sony? It did not quite compute in my mind. I was wondering if I should skipped it and go shop right away for 'better' (read more costly, costing atleast twice as much) headphones.  Hmmm, and I was going to use this just for the occasionaly watching a DVD on my laptop or portable DVDSony DVP-FX930 9-Inch Portable DVD Player, Black. I wasn't comfortable buying a high priced headphone, so I decided to try this one out. I was surprised with the quality. I'm sure those expensive headphones must be very very good, but this one is good enough for me. I'm very happy with it.Perhaps an alternative as a kids headphone. Our 5 year old uses it quite a bit on the portabtle DVD. We bought him one of those kids headphones (for almost the same prices). Also from SonySony Mdr-222Kd/Blk Childrens Headphones (Black), but that did not turned out as good as this MDR V-150. This Sony MDR V150, costs about the same, it fits him better, and is much more comfortable. He doesn't fiddle with it as he would with the 'kids' headphone. But the Childrens Headphone does have a feature to prevent the sound to get too loud for childeren, which is a feature that the MDR-V150 does not have. For our son, I will always keep the volume on a low. Fortunately he likes it that way, and does not play with the volume, onece I've adjusted it for him. When he's using it, I will still check so now and then, just to be sure. So we don't find the volume a problem with the MDR-V150. Still that might be a feature you may want to have for your kids.
5	1275782400	I have purchased 3 pair of these. The first 2, were eaten up by my new puppy..I accidently left t hem in the floor...price wise..Best ever for the product..amazing quality, great sound..best head phones i have ever bought. I will never use another brand but these!You will NOT regret buying these.
2	1275523200	I get headache after using these headphones for more than half an hour so I won't use them anymore.Sound quality is good. They are just uncomfortable for my ears and head.  If the width of your head is wide, you may get the same problem I got.
1	1275091200	In the past, I have always trusted Sony products. I've had these headphones less than a month and the left side has completely quit working! Since I trusted this brand, I got rid of the packaging, so now I have no way to return them. I guess I'm stuck with them. Next time I'll go straight to the store, that way if something goes wrong it will be a lot easier to return it.
4	1274918400	this sony headset is great. it is simple, light and sleek. there aren't too many glitches or hiccups with this. it's just a good pair of headphones, especially for the money. the sound quality is decent, but not state of the art. you won't be listening to a bose sound system, but the sound is clear. this is not a heavy duty DJ item, but something that you can afford to use everyday and enjoy.
2	1274313600	If you like to hear all of the frequencies in your audio clearly, you will hate these headphones.  Bass frequencies are overemphasized and treble and middle frequencies sound muddled.  The result is a muffled sound quality that makes it hard to hear any details in the music. I am an audiophile, musician, and producer so I prefer headphones that do not color the audio this way.  Even if you don't consider yourself an audiophile, you owe it to yourself to check out superior-sounding headphones in this price range, such as the Koss PortaPros or various models from Sennheiser.As for the build quality, it seems to be passable for a $15 pair of headphones.  Sony products tend to be pretty well made, so I expect that these will probably last a long time if you take care of them.  These headphones are not especially comfortable because they have a closed-back, supra-aural design that tends to clamp down on your head and make your ears start to feel hot after awhile.Overall, I would not recommend these headphones, even for casual listeners.  You will have a much more enjoyable listening experience if you spend $10-20 extra for something better.
5	1274227200	as i see it the biggest complaints others have is the comfort. those people are used to earbuds. these dont fit like earbuds because they are headphones not earbuds.i love these. as im typing im listening to a vinyl record through these . im on side c. they arent squeezing me to a headache, they sound great. great range, great channel seperation, and the sound is far enough away from the ear to still present a good soundstage.bottom line if your used to earbuds you will not like the fit of these (or most other headphones). but they sound great.p.s. did you hear that really low bass note i just heard. ofcouse not and neither did my neighbors. excellent product.
2	1274054400	I was not expecting these to be great headphones, and they aren't. The sound quality is not that great. There is some scratchiness for certain melodies and notes. For example, Jason Mraz doesn't sound too good. The Black Eyed Peas, however, sound fine. The earcups are not very comfortable, and ear fatigue occurs in less than an hour. That said, the sound quality is better than the tin-like sound that comes out of the laptop speakers. The cups seal decently and this helps minimize exterior noises. The cord plug is plenty long, which is an improvement over my old ipod earbuds. My main impetus for purchasing these was to get an alternative to the earbuds, and they manage that fairly well. If you can find a $20-something model with good reviews, that might be a better purchase. These are what they are. I'm still undecided on whether it was a good purchase or not. Also, I haven't used the larger adaptor plug, so I can't comment on how well that works.
2	1274054400	Comfort wise, this is a zero. Listening with these headphones for more than 15 minutes gives me a headache, and I feel that the sound is too stuffy. Definitely expected more. Decent for the price.
5	1273968000	As I type, I'm listening to gorgeous piano music on these headphones.  I'm certainly pleased with them.  They have worked perfectly since the time I first plugged them in (about 2 days ago).  Can't speak about how they will endure, but I expect they will last quite well--they're made by Sony, and I have always had good luck with Sony products.There's a substantial and flexible cord, about 1/4 x 1/16" thick but nice and long--I would guesstimate about 6 feet.  This is important to me, since I have had headphones with cords so short I had to buy an extention cord to keep from having to bend over too close to where I plugged them in.  Not with these.And the quality of sound is excellent.  The padding is comfortable too.  In short, a lot of quality for the very reasonable price.Highly recommended.
2	1273708800	I got these for $26 at Best Buy because I had forgotten my normal cheap buds and wanted something to tide me over.The first thing I noticed was the quality of the cable, which had been the cause of death for multiple pairs of ~$20 headphones in the past. It is quite heavy and sturdy, especially at the jack end, where there is a lot of rubber-like reinforcement. When these break, it wont be the cable.Instead, it would probably be the band at the top. If I put a little pressure to "open it up," the thing feels as though it will snap. Not good. Not something to throw in a suitcase or in a backpack (though they are not really meant for travel anyway, so I guess that is to be expected).However, this pair will not break (at least not by me) because I am on my way to return them. The real problem is the comfort of the headphone cup. They are small and round and dig into your ears viscously. It does not take too much time or too large a head to do so. I don't know my hat size or anything, but it is nothing exceptional. Also, the stiffness of the plastic headband adds to the problem of pressure on the ear.  Again, not good.Now, the sound quality to me is fine. They are like my cheap ear buds, but fuller of course, because they surround the ear more. Nothing really to complain about in this area, but the other quality issues really distract and detract.Overall, look somewhere else for full-ear headphones.(Oh, and the other feature advertised is the "flip the ear thing out" thing. This does not really work as the ear thing does not flip all the way, more like 80% or so. This means that it just kind of digs in your head at a new angle. Easier to simply slant the thing off your ear, which defeats the purpose. So, if you want to look like a DJ, don't do it with these.)
4	1273536000	After 5 years of constant use, one of the ears is finally cutting out. It's funny when you use a product for years and never think much about it...but now that buying another pair, I can 100% vouch for these headphones. For an average user, it will be the best $20 headphones money can buy.
5	1273104000	I had been using the iPod headphones for quite some time when I realized it was time to step it up. I bought these after testing a few headphones like the Sony's and finding that the sound quality was just fantastic. It works excellent with anything from rock to electropop to hip-hop and back again. I was not looking for a earcup to fully cover my ear and so the noise-cancelling could be better but for the most part its perfect. If you want to listen to and appreciate your music buy these headphones. Your wallet and your ears will agree it was the best purchase you made all year.
3	1273104000	Truth be told. I have been purchasing these headphones since about 1997. I have had about 3 pairs total. I don't know how long this model dates back. But I do know it is of the same build and sound quality. These are hands down the best headphones for value and sound. It is exactly why I keep coming back to them. It rivals some of the more expensive headphones I have come across. Though the positives outweigh the negatives. My gripe has always been the build. Cords are thick so I never had a problem with a speaker going out. It is the freaking frame itself. The adjusters always wear down because of the cheap plastic. Also, the tightness of the fit wears down considerably after a while. I swear. After constant use after a year or so, tilt your head and they fall off easily. This greatly impacts the sound over time. If you put pressure on the headsets against your ears they sound like new. Better material would make these headsets the best ever in my opinion. Also don't expect these to be great for noise cancellation. There is quite a bit of spill as well, so the louder you crank them the more others around you will hear. But man, these always pull me back to them. 20 bucks? Yet you still get more than what you pay for. After my current pair wear out, as they are. Had them for over 3 years now. I may just get another pair. I can't help but love them. I just have to be honest about the poor quality of the build.
5	1273017600	These are great! They keep the noise in, I don't think they are too tight. Brings out the music quality. Can be used with a stereo or a mp3 player. Very cool.
5	1273017600	I can't compare this headphone with other headphones, because I am not too used to listening to music with headphones. I have just used this one. The sound quality is awesome. You don't feel like  you are using a headphone. It so naturally fit with ears that u fell so very comfortable. Excellent headphone.
5	1272931200	The headphones are very comfortable. I really like the sound quality too. The only problem i had was they broke when i carried them on a plane in my backpack.  Other than that they are great
5	1272931200	This Sony headphone delivers crystal clear sound for professional and high fidelity applications. Reversible earcups enable single-sided monitoring flexibility.The design is excellent and fits both ears very comfortably.This headphones have larger range of sound and lower impedance.For me the sound quality seems better than any other Sony's competitors.
4	1272844800	Thanks Amazon, you do yourselves proud when you sell merchandise such as the headphones that I recently purchased. Kudos.
1	1272758400	I picked these up to replace my old Sony headphones that I've been using for years because they're starting to fall apart. What a mistake. Beside the fact that they aren't very comfortable, the sound is atrocious. I listened to several different songs to see if maybe it was just the music and not the headphones but to my dismay every song was completely drowned out by bass. Loud, loud, bass. Every song listened to through these headphones is a ton of bass with a faint vocal in the background. Needless to say they are going back to the store and I'll just stick with my old Sonys until they completely stop working.
5	1272758400	Great deal for a quality product.  A little uncomfortable if you wear eyeglasses, and the jack projects out far from the device it is plugged into, making it susceptible to be broken off easily if stepped on by a dog - which is why I bought this as a replacement for the identical model.  Loved the original so I bought it again!
4	1272326400	This little unit has it all. Great sound and easy to use. Very well built and a fantastic value for the price. Go for it.
4	1271980800	This is the second pair for our house. My 13 year-old son didn't like the buds for his iPod, so he bought these. He also uses them to watch movies on his laptop. My nine year-old daughter borrowed them and also liked them much better than the ear buds. Hence, pair Number Two. Much more comfortable and better sound.
5	1271376000	If you're expecting to find a comparable pair of headphones for [...] bucks, think again. I've owned these for 5 years now. They've been on 3 nationwide tours, to two different colleges and back, and everywhere in between, and they're still in amazing condition. The sound quality is absolutely stunning for their price. Comparable to 80 dollar headphones. Get three pairs of these. Seriously. You will not be sorry. The cable quality is also very nice. Thick rubber, very good construction.
4	1271203200	These headphones were wonderful, but I just stepped on the ear piece and it broke.  It's all good, I'm just telling you this because I don't want this to happen to you with these awesome headphones.  Really inexpensive, base-bumping quality, comfortable. RIP
3	1270857600	First off I've always been fairly satisfied with Sony headphones. These are a good low to middle of the road semi-pro headphone. For $15 the sound is not bad, the highs are slightly muddy, but the bass and mid-range is pretty good.  The downside of these is the comfort.  They are NOT comfortable at all.  They feel like hard plastic with a little bit of foam on the ear pads; and the headband is hard plastic with no foam.  I'm a writer/director so I picked these up to wear while i'm on the set to monitor the audio.  I don't plan on continuiously wearing them as I'll be taking them off and on throughout the shoot, so personally I don't mind the uncomfortableness. However if you plan on wearing them for any consecutive length of time, i wouldn't recommend them.
5	1270857600	Got mine during Thanksgiving Sale for $9! Definitely worth my money. After months of constant use and harsh handling (I often drop them), it still works as great as the first time I bought them.
4	1270771200	I bought this product as an inexpensive headset to wear on airplanes. While it is certainly worth the price, it doesn't do much for airplane noise. It muffles and over-rides noise but limited noise cancellation if you are not playing music. But it was what I expected for the price and did help some. The fact that the product was comfortable was a plus. This is a fair choice if you can't afford the much costlier headphones.
4	1270771200	The price is unbelievable really, i have seen these headphones at normal stores and they range from 30 to 50 dollars! i was like 10 dollars might get me substandard headphones but these are great. A good buy, however, the only inconvenience is that it may take a while getting used to since it seems a bit tight in the beginning for me at least. In addition, prolonged use tends to make my ears warm but overall its an excellent product. good buy!
5	1270166400	I just had to review this headset now that I've owned 2 pair... I'm not an expert on sound quality, but they sure sound good to me... As, for quality of it's construction, I can tell you a couple things about this headset...First of all, I have had my original headset for over 5 years now... I fall asleep every night listening to the radio with them on, and it has never broken, which is amazing to me since I sleep like a tornado...Secondly, I have a cat that for some reason likes to chew on the cord of this headset every day, sometimes even when I'm still wearing them... The cord is STILL intact after years of chewing and the headset still works great, but I fear soon my little furry friend is eventually going to chew all the way through so I just bought another set...So, all in all, I would say this make and model of headset is more than worthy on 5 stars in my opinion.
1	1270080000	They are heavy. The sound is lousy. They do not block out noise, infact they amplify office noise. The cheaper headset is a much better deal and a much better product. The cheaper set has much better sound quality.
4	1270080000	I expected lot from SONY, basic thing is comfortableness in headphones...if you were continually 2-3 hours ears really hurts very badly...for overall it's OK... OK..product.
2	1269648000	I find the sound quality on these headphones to be nice, but they are very uncomfortable to wear. The first 3 days I used them I got a terrible headache and jaw pain from the pressure, which eventually went away. During the second week of use, I noticed the pinna of my ears to be very tender and wearing the headphones is very painful. If I could do it over again, I would not buy theses headphones and save myself the trouble.
2	1269561600	My office has a really noisy A/V system.  I sit half my days with these earphones on; they cut the sound significantly.  Very comfortable.  I also listen to news & music and the sound is good.However I caught the cable on my leg the other day, and ended up stepping on them.  Cracked the arm and I'm not sure how much longer they will last.
4	1269388800	Great sound quality. Could be a bit more comfortable, but for the money I am very satified.
4	1269302400	I bought a set of these headphones a few years ago at a brick and mortar store for nearly twice the price you'll pay here.Pros:The sound is good and not harsh like some other cheap headphones I've experienced.The cord is fairly thick and substantial.Cons:They fit tight on my ears, which necessitates frequent adjusting or removal.The cord is really too long, but that can be remedied with the twist-tie.The "stirrups" above the earpieces are fragile, so if they smash against a hard surface they'll break; mine did that on both sides, before and after gluing them back together.I tried a couple other cheap pairs, one from JVC, which was louder (but harsher) and stopped working on one side.  One good thing about those JVCs though was they were loud enough that I could sometimes use them as speakers :-)  I ordered another pair of the Sonys mainly because I like the way they sound.  Hopefully I'll treat these a little easier and the cats won't pull the dangling cord and until they hit the floor this time.
1	1269216000	I have been using this brand of headphones for years. I had my first pair for 2 years until they got stolen. My second pair lasted a long time as well, and even though the earcups snapped off after a friend's misuse, they still technically worked.I bought this pair 3 weeks ago for my new ipod. They worked perfectly for about a week. In the middle of the second week, I noticed that the sound on the right earcup stopped working. I would have to jiggle and hold in place the end of the headphone plug to the ipod port to get the sound working properly. I figured that this was a problem with my ipod and not the headphones. I tried the headphones with a friend's ipod, and the same problem recurred. We then tried a different set of headphones from an old cd player and the sound was just fine. This concluded that the headphones were either defective, or ill-fitting for the ipod's headphone port.Nonetheless, I figured I could deal with it by taping in place the position of the headphone plug to the ipod. However, the problem continued, to the point where the left earcup stopped working as well. I had to keep fidgeting with the headphone plug, moving it left and right while it was plugged to the ipod. Finally, the plug just snapped off. I am nothing but gentle with my electronics, so clearly this set of headphones was cheaply made.I am disappointed because I never had a problem with this brand before. Maybe I just got a faulty pair from the factory. In any case, I hope spending more money on another brand or model won't give me this problem again.
5	1269216000	I was amazed at the quality and clarity of the sound eminating from the headphones.  (I purchased this based on the recommendation on this site.)  Additionally, the 6' cord is a blessing, as I frequently move away from the portable CD player, without having to pick it up & carry it with me.
4	1269129600	The headphones fit pretty tight on my head (they press a little hard on my ears), but the sound is EXCELLENT!! And they keep out ambient noise pretty well.Plus, it comes with a detachable audio plug adapter for those really large headphone jacks--the ones you find on keyboards and guitar amps.Oh, and note that these don't have a volume control wheel on the cord.
5	1268956800	Super headphones and at an affordable price point.  The buds that came with the Sansa Fuze MP3 (great player!) sounded great but wouldn't stay in my ears.  Very frustrating, hurt my ears, and the sound quality was lost.Sony to the rescue. These have great sound quality and now I can enjoy my player -- without another big outlay of cash beyond the MP3.Also comes with a larger sized connector, amp sized.Thank you Sony! for coming through. And thanks for all the Amazon reviews so I knew what to safely buy!
5	1268697600	i hate ear buds so after i got my iPhone i was in the market for over the ear headphones. i found these and decided they were worth trying for the price. so i ordered them. i love them. some reviewers find them too tight but i don't. i highly recommend them to everyone. great value for the price!
4	1268524800	These Headphones are a nice quality for the money. If you move around some the tend to make some audible external noise even at hi volumes. They are comfortable and overall a great set for the money. Sound quality is also pretty good for the price. I would buy these again for general round about use.
5	1268352000	I've had these headphones for over 4 years. I use them regularly for exercising (I don't like ear buds when I work out) and they haven't given me any problems. Of course it has gotten some wear and tear over time but nothing has broken and I can still hear music perfectly through both speakers. I highly recommend them if you are looking for some cheap headphones that will last.
5	1268352000	Picked up at Walmart (not big assortment to choose from) and lucked out.  These do what I want them to, decent sound and more comfortable than other one's I've had.  I was using to listen to music when I didn't want to wake anyone up, but decided I want another to leave attached to computer to watch movies (which works really well, just wish were wireless, but that would cost a lot more).  When I use them to watch movies, sound seems even better than when I'm listening to music.  I don't think these can be beat for the money.  Oh, and Amazon has them for about seven bucks less than Walmart and with super saver delivery, so if you get them, here is probably the best place.
5	1268179200	These headphones are definitely the most bang for the buck.  It is a great product and reasonably priced for Sony.
2	1268179200	I originally bought these headphones because I thought they might sound and feel better than my Sennheiser HDR-120s.  The Sennheisers are more expensive but they are wireless so I thought I might get an advantage out of wired.  I am no audophile, but I was hoping for an improvement.To my taste these are too tight, and the sound is not particularly good.  Maybe I just prefer Sennheisers but of my headphones I rate them as follows:1.  HD201 -- much better Sound **** Comfort **** Portability **2.  HDR120  Sound ***  Comfort ***  Portability N/A  Range ****2.  PX100  Sound ***  Comfort **** Portability ****3.  MDR-V150  Sound **  Comfort **  Portability **My 12 year old thinks the Sony's are fine and they may be a good cheap headphone for kids.The HDR201's were recommended on many sites, and I thank those reviewers for their advice they are my favorite headphones so far.
5	1268092800	great headphones all around. sound qualities very good, but for the record i think sonys little formula remains unchanged regardless of specific headphone build (all their lower end headphones have very similar sound quality, though that really isnt a bad thing...sound quality is still good.). these headphones have really good bass and are as loud as they come! for the price, the sound is amazing overall.they are comfortable enough, and i dont get pain when i wear them for a long amount of time.the only problem i have with these headphones is the fact that the chord is WAY too long. a lot of people on this review are talking about how great that is...i find it incredibly inconvenient. i dont use these babies to work on my pc...i just use them to work out for 2 hours a day. the chord gets in the way of a lot of things...either way, these headphones are GREAT because they are INCREDIBLY inexpensive, and are excellent in terms of overall quality. i recommend these headphones to ANYONE in need of headphones beyond those PATHETIC excuses for "earbuds" that come with the iphone/ipod. you can buy 2 sets of these babies for the price of those pieces of overrated crap. BRAVO SONY.
2	1268006400	Here is a case where you actually get what you pay for.  Did not expect much at this price, and did not get much.  What else is there to say?  No, I did not compare it against my expensive Stax phones or even Sony's own MDR-7506.  I enjoy those.  But they are certainly larger, audiophile phones.  And they need a headphone amplifier.  I wanted these inexpensive phones to take to the gym to use with my iPod.  So, I compared them against my several year old little Sony MDR A22 earphones.  Those are the ones I use with my iPod now.  They are fine, a lot better than the little earphones that come with the iPod/iPhone.  But I wanted something with a little bigger speaker surface.First, contrary to the description on Amazon, these headphones do not over your ears.  They lay over your ears (on top of your ears), no matter how small your ears are.  Second, they have boomy bass!  Ridiculously exaggerated bass.  The highs are missing.  The little MDR A22's produce much better, balanced sound.  If you want boom, boom, these will do the trick.  But I cannot imagine why anyone would want that, instead of clean, clear midbass and enjoyable highs.I just hope that after a few days, they will open up a little and become more listenable.  Otherwise, I will be gone.  But that is OK.  It was cheap learning experience.  That is why I wanted to share my experience with others.  I am going to try the small Sennheisers next.  Hopefully, with better outcome.Good hunting.
4	1267920000	Everything is good, but the cord was too long... if used in a room or somewhere you stay relatively still, it should be fine, but the cord tends to get tangled up when moving. In fact mine broke because it got caught up in something it shouldn't have... But overall I liked this pair...(The reviewer was compensated for posting this review.  However, the opinion stated in the review is that of the reviewer and the reviewer alone. Further, the reviewer independently selected this product to review and has no affiliation with the product maker/distributor, Amazon or the review requester.)
3	1266969600	Like the other people say, the sound quality is great and a great value. But I find it hard to even wear these headphones for more than 30 minutes straight without getting an earache. If you are looking for comfortable headphones, you might want to avoid these.
2	1266883200	i cannot wear these headphones for more than an hour without my ears hurting. if you are goin to be wearing these for more time than it takes to walk around the block, then id suggest some over ear headphones like the sennenheiser hd 202s.Sennheiser HD 202  Headphones
5	1266883200	These headphones have three great things going for them: they don't try to fall off the back of your head every time you move it (as behind-the-ear 'phones have a way of doing), they're lightweight, and they're comfortable.  They also offer a good consistent sound quality.  They're definitely far superior to the ones sold at Radio Shack, and they work with anything electronic you happen to have--stereo, computer, TV.
4	1266537600	I bought my first pair of these headphones about 10 years ago and used them to listen to music in my cubicle while working.  They were inexpensive and the sound quality was OK, so I had no complaints.Since that time, I have upgraded several times; including upgrades to wireless headphones and high quality ear buds which left the sound quality of these in the dust.  These Sony headphones got relegated to the family van where our kids would use them to watch movies while we traveled.As you can imagine, the kids were really hard on these; but they continued to last... until about 2 weeks ago when one of the ear pieces finally broke off.Anyway, I jumped on Amazon to see what was currently available; and, you can imagine my surprise to find the exact same model still being sold.  When I saw the price, I added them to my cart and bought them as soon as I had something else to buy that would put me into the super-saver-shipping zone.Although I have headphones and earbuds that sound better than these, I don't think there is a better value available.  Hopefully these will give us another 10 years of solid use:).
5	1266364800	You cannot get any better then this for this price. Amazing and Robust is the best way to describer this headphone
5	1265760000	Product came quickly. Great sound.  Cord is a little long, but that provides some flexibility.  Others said these were too tight.  I haven't found that to be the case.
5	1265673600	Ive tried all different headphones and found these to very good for the price. They are very compfortable on the ears unlike many other headphones I have used. For the money...You can't beat it!
5	1265673600	Best value of all and it's a Sony so you know it's the good stuff, Ed.
5	1265587200	I love the headphones and I think they're awesome!They're comfortable, they were priced great and they came on time.
5	1265414400	I GOT THIS CHEAP HEAD PHONES AND I USE THEM FOR MIXING OF ALL THINGSWHAT I LIKE ABOUT THESE THEY OUR WHAT I CALL"LIPSTICK HEADPHONES"WHEN I MIX I LIKE TO HEAR THE DIFFERENT INTERPITATION OF SPEAKERSAND THESE OR GOOD FOR ME MOST CHEAP SPEAKERS OR HEAD PHONES HAVEWHAT I CALL A LOT OF "SUGER\LIPSTICK" ON THEM TO PRODUCE A REALLYCRUDE SOUND...THIS ONLY APPLIES TO US STUDIO NUT HEADS..WHO STUDYTHE SCIENCE OF SOUND TO THE AVERAGE PERSON YOU WILL BE FINE...SUREWHY NOT BUY THEM..NOT BAD[...]
5	1265414400	I bought these 3 years ago at a Meijer and they are still in wonderful shape. When I'm drawing I wear these while listening to music to block out external sound. My husband loves to laugh at movies he watches downstairs whenever I'm doing homework. These things will block him out ha ha!  The padding feels wonderful against your ears, however you can start to get sweaty in the warmer seasons if you wear them for a long time.  These things can take a beating, I've rolled over them several times with my computer chair. The sound quality is great and they are fairly comfortable. If you don't like ear buds and don't want to fork out a lot of money to higher quality head phones. These will be perfect for you!  I can't stress enough about how awesome these are to wear while working because they block everything out. It makes you feel more productive while listing to your favorite music.
5	1265328000	I have always used these phones for professional audio mixing. They do not deliver a "flat" sound but an average sound. I don't like to mix audio with a "flat" set because no one else will be listening to the audio product on a "flat" audio system. These "average-response" earphones consistantly give me a sound representative of what most other systems will reproduce.
5	1264896000	I love these headphones, the sound is amazing and the comfort is great. You can even use them with your IPOD. The sound is very clear, if you want to hear a specific instrument these headphones are great for that. Each instrument is loud and clear.
5	1264809600	I bought these for my 10 year old who hates the ear bud headphones.  She loves these as they are very comfortable and the sound is great.
5	1264809600	I was pleasantly surprised by how good the headphones really are considering they are only $15. Used it several times on flights and was very impressed by its sound quality. The only complaint I have against it is that the headphones sit a little too tight around the ears. Otherwise, a great buy.
1	1264809600	The headphones were very poorly made and broke within one use.  A small plastic tab holds the earcups in place, which broke.  We returned both sets for a full refund.
5	1264636800	For the price, these are excellent headphones.  I bought them primarily to use on my iPod, but they sound great on my laptop and home stereo.  The earbuds I own are Senheiser CX-300's.  While noise blocking earbuds like my CX-300's are great for airplanes and other noisy environments, they just don't produce the quality of sound of "cans" or outside the canal headphones.  Even with earbuds costing $100-plus, I would still argue there is a sacrifice.  Buds are still a great choice if you want something small, mobile and discrete; however, if you don't mind lugging around something a little larger, the V150's are great.With an impedance rating of 24 ohms, an iPod, laptop or other mobile device won't have any problem lighting these up; and even at 24 ohms the V150's sound pretty darn good - especially when you consider their price. I also have a pair of 64-ohm Senheiser "cans" (HD-250) along with a portable amp.  This set-up is ideal for my iPod as far as sound goes, but a pain to lug around.  The MDR-V150 won't fit in your pocket, and are a bit bulky, but are still portable and for less than half the price of a decent set of buds, sound twice as good.As far as comfort, they are snug but comfortable, and the cables and jack are heavy duty and well insulated.One note, if you use these in an office or tight space and like to blast, take in mind your neighbor is going to hear you.
4	1264550400	I was a little skeptical at first about buying these headphones but I can honestly say that for such a low price, you will not find better. So do yourself a favor and just buy them already, you won't be dissapointed
3	1264464000	These are the best headphones you can buy for 15 dollars. Until they break. My third pair just broke. The first pair broke so that sound only came out of one ear. The second was my fault. I tripped over it and yanked it out of the computer, bending the imput beyond repair. When the second pair broke a few weeks ago, I immediately  ordered a new pair. They had been working just fine until today. I plugged them into my computer, played a song and I noticed the right ear is much louder than the left. The left ear is muffled; it realy bothered me, so I ordered a replacement. However, If my fourth pair does break, I will definitely not order these headphones again.
5	1264291200	I lost mine and i loved them, so i decided to get the same headphones, they are very comfy , great sound and a great value also, very recomended,
3	1264204800	Pro's:-Excellent, deep bass (for people who listen to hip hop or other bass rich music)-Nice treble on all the songs-Stylish-Since they're monitor series headphones, they come with an extra jack that goes screws on over the smaller jack (used for iPods, Zunes, mp3 players)Con's:-Too tight on my head and after a while they give you a headache-Your ears are squeezed and they can't breathe so after I take off the headphones, my ears are blood shot red-The sides of the headphone just above the speakers jut out and are very uncomfortable-The cord is LONG (5+ feet from the jack to where the cord splits) and THICK (my cat chewed on them and couldn't even bite through the things)-It catches your hair-I have an iPod nano (not the newer one) and it makes my ipod look weird.. like really small. the jack is huge.I must say this though. They are constantly being thrown around (i.e. into my backpack with books crushing them) so they are pretty durable. I was actually looking for a good pair of jogging earbuds when I found these and I fell in love with them. They have their pro's and con's (as everything does) but I like them. I've had them for almost a year and they've look the same as the day I bought them.
4	1264032000	I thought that with the Sony name, the quality whould have been better but it suitted my needs. OK for the money
5	1263945600	These earphones give an amazing sound and comfort. For the price i paid for them i absolutely got my moneys worth. Great value!
2	1263686400	These are the muddiest sounding headsets I've ever owned. It helpsto add treble to your EQ settings, but that's not a perfect solution,either. It sounds like you've stuffed your ears full of cottonbefore you put them on. Everything else seems fine. Tough cord andconnections, nice fit, but I bought them so I could discriminatesounds. Everything blends together into mush. I'll have to go backand replace these with something else. If all you like is bass, getthem. The lows are bass, the highs are bass, the mids are bass. It'sa bassy mess. I paid $21.
3	1263081600	surprisingly they r very good and even better cause there cheap and comes with extra headphone tipgood qualityleaks a little to muchvery very long cordconfortablestylishtight fit wont fall offdependablelast very longdurableif loud enough can tune out most things including nagging parents while ur doin ur hwjust very nice overallshould get them if ur lookin for good dj sound quality for really cheap
4	1262822400	delivered early, phones work well in recordings, also in stadium type settings. can here rich and good bass sounds from other musicians, only thing is after having on a long time, approx. half hour or more, gets a little uncomfortable and hurt my ears. otherwise i would recommend.
5	1262563200	Bought these during Summer 2003, they still sound as excellent as they did from the start. I'm not hard on them, but they do travel with me long distance on occasion, and get normal use pretty much every day. The foam is still excellent on both ears, but the fabric covering on one ear is starting fray a bit at the inside edge, cords are still tight despite more than a few yanks over the yrs- they have held up better than one would expect for under $20. I'm now looking for an over-ear cup for extended late-night listening since the on-ear cup does tire the earlobes after a few hours, but will also order a back-up of this model and am very glad to see they are still being sold.
4	1262304000	Can't ask for much more. $15, nice thick cord, comes w/ the 1/4" stereo jack,  did I mention $15 IIRC these are PRIME eligible. I live in Dallas so I had them the next day before work.  The SQ is better than my Bose NC headphones, although the bose of course do a much better sound of canceling noise.
5	1262131200	Ordered 4 sets of these for the family and they are easily the best headphones I have ever bought for $15.  Have owned them for a few weeks and they are used for ipods and portable DVD players.  Have not heard any complaints yet.
2	1262131200	partially my own fault though, should have anticipated that such an earphone would be tight.
5	1262131200	Their only $10 and they last like 2 years. I've had other more expensive headphones and the sound quality sucked and they only lasted a few months. These are the best quality I've heard in headphones so far.
1	1262044800	These might be nice headphones, can't really tell, THEY ARE BROKEN.  there is a little dainty stirrup shaped brittle plastic piece that holds the "reversible" earpiece to the headband.  This piece is not sturdy enough for adults and I'm sure children would snap this earpiece/earphone off.  It is under pressure when the headphones are worn, and this is the weakest link when it should be the sturdiest!  I am tired of repairing headphones, I would not advise these headphones to anyone who wanted to use them more than a couple days.
5	1261958400	This is one of the best headphones out there for the dollar.They sound good, and hold up well to various DJ's, and personal.
5	1261872000	These are the best headphone I've ever owned. The Sony MDR-V150 headphones are great and for home theater they are amazing. When I was listening to the empire strikes back on my ps3 and on my sony mrd-v150 headphones I could feel the LEF effects throough the headphones in the sceen in which luke skywalker gets blown out of the window in cloud city. The headphone are that great. Plus they are good for the price. I whould recomend these headphone for anyone looking for a pair of good headphones for home theater.
4	1261785600	they are just fine!  I traded up only because i needed a headset w/ mic!but for the price (even at $20) its not a bad buy!
5	1261353600	I purchased these Sony headphones to use to attach to my lasptop to listen to my personal music, and alsoto use them while traveling in the air and by vehicle to listen to my MP3 player. The ease of use and quality of sound produced by these headphones is exemplary, and I would recommend them for anyone wishing to use them for the same type of applications.
5	1261094400	I'm generally not a fan of Sony products, but these headphones are excellent.  They're comfortable, have great sound quality, have a long cord, and are extremely durable!I've been burned by headphones with extremely thin cords before.  They have poor sound quality, and usually break down after a couple months.  Even many expensive headphones have this problem.  But, I've bought 3 sets of these headphones (one for work, one for home, one for backup), and not one has broken yet, after several years of use!I feel that if the wire was shielded, the set would be even better, but you won't find anything comparable to that for under $70.
3	1260835200	The cord is the perfect length for FM reception. If your radio uses the headphone wires for an antenna (most "walkman" type radios do) these headphones will improve the reception quite a substantial amount over standard portable 'phones.Their sound quailty is not bad, but far from outstanding. While it's true that they do sound a bit better than your average budget headphones, they no doubt sound like budget 'phones. You do get what you pay for when it come to audio and these are no exception to the rule. The advertised 20-20Khz frequency range is a joke at best.If it's cheap 'phones you're after or if you're looking for much better than average FM reception then these will do. However if it's good sound quailty that you want I advise that you spend a bit more and get some Koss Porta-Pros or (if you don't mind in ears) the even better for the money Sennheiser CX 300.If it's really good headphones that you seek you probably already know better than to get anything in this price class.
5	1260835200	I love these they are awesome good sound quality. the price is great better then best buy's price.
5	1259625600	These can't be beat for under $20.  They sound great.  They are a little tight, but still fairly comfortable.  I like their small size.
4	1258243200	Works fine. I was hoping for a little more noise filtering from the ear padding but for $15, I guess I shouldn't expect too much.  It is worth the $15, tho.
4	1257638400	I got these headphones about a year and a half ago. Two things to note right off the bat:1. A year an a half ago I knew VERY LITTLE about the technical side of audio.2. It's stupid of Sony to call these "Studio Headphones" or even "Monitor Series" headphones.FIRST OFF, know that these are not "studio quality" by any means, and will be horrible for use in any home or project studio, even if you're just starting out. Go spend $100 on some AKG or Sennheiser phones. Spend more if you can afford it. It's an important investment. These don't provide the audio quality necessary for mixing, or the isolation necessary for tracking in the studio. I'm surprised that the specs say 18 Hz to 22 KHz. Those frequencies are DRASTICALLY and unusably attenuated, if even present at all. If you retain one sentence from this review, it should be this one: These are NOT studio headphones.THAT ASIDE, these are acceptable throw-around, day-in day-out casual commuting headphones. Before I purchased my Yamaha HS series monitors (not the world's best monitors, but they work for me) and AKG K271 MKII headphones, I thought these Sony headphones sounded really really good. Now that I have good headphones to compare them to, they're a horrible muddy mess with a limited frequency response... but I don't really care when I'm walking along a busy, LOUD street, listening to my iPod, or when I want to pack headphones that I'm not worried about breaking and paying to replace. I'm surprised people say they break theirs all the time. They're not bullet proof... but... what the hell do you do to your headphones...? Mine have held up fine. I do prefer on ear headphones for casual listening, as they're not as huge as over ear models, and because I absolutely hate ear buds. The comfort of these are pretty decent, IMO. Could be better, but they're 20 dollar headphones.IF THIS REVIEW IS TOO LONG, SKIP TO THIS PART.To sum it all up, for $20 headphones these can't be beat. They're comfy enough, durable enough, small enough, and decent enough sounding for the average consumer... ESPECIALLY the consumer that only wants to pay $20 for something as important as headphones.
4	1256860800	While by no means comparable to Sennheiser, this is a surprisingly good little headset for the money.  I rate it superior to Grundig.
3	1256515200	I've owned this series of headphone for some odd reason, because they're not all that good, more than once. It's a quick fix. They're cheep, and do the job. But that's all they do.The highs aren't high. The bass is virtually non-existent. It's only so-so high point is the mid range, which isn't all that important compared to the other two items.The construction, as you'd expect by the price is very.. very cheep. I wouldn't be surprised if Sony started throwing these in cereal boxes for the free toy in a few years.I have to wear glasses, and during long listening sessions (over an hour) my ears began to hurt since these are an "on the ear" headphone. I wouldn't suggest these to anyone, regardless of price, if they wear glasses on a regular basis.I won't be buying another set. Ever.
5	1256515200	This is my third pair of Sony mid-sized earphone and I really love them. They are lightweight and comfortable and have a very solid "look" -- that is, they are just "cool" enough without being too "hipster."  I live in NYC and more and more people are wearing full-sized earphone rather than earbuds.  They sound infinitely better than any in-the-ear device I have ever used.  They don't fall out or fall off,  help block some of the exterior noise and are lightweight.  I use them "heavily" and so I would caution all users to be gentle with the cables -- and never "fidget" by folding or pulling on them.  They are optical and so wear out over time just from ordinary use so don't hasten them along.  When packing them, coil the cable loosely.  This is true for most earphones today,not only these nice Sony's.  Good luck.
4	1256342400	Nice and light-weight and also has nice sound quality. It works similar to the bose in that it uses a slight vacuum in the earcups to boost sound quality.However, the earcups were a little to small to cover the entire ear and the reversible cups are totally useless.
5	1256256000	I use these headphones everyday.  As a flightsimmer and avid online car racer I need a good set of phones.  These are the best I have ever used, well made and comfortable.  They are made to last!
4	1255824000	No, these aren't the greatest headphones in the world. However, for under $20, they do the job just fine. I've had mine for years now and have never had an issue. I also have very long hair (to the middle of my back) and have NEVER gotten it caught in the headphones. They're very comfortable. The sound is just fine. I love the fact that it has a long cord, but I don't see where it's "too thick" as another reviewer stated. All in all, for reasonably priced headphones, this is the one to get!
4	1255651200	The sony Mdr-v150 headset is a good value for the price. I compared them to my other [coby] headset with my Ipod and I discovered notes that where missing on them. The cord is a bit too long for my taste. I accentaly broke the headband but was able to super-glue back together. Expect to pay between 15-20 $ for them
5	1255564800	These headphones are great for my IPod when i am mowing or out for a run.  I dont like the small headphones that go in my ears, i think they are dirty and hurt.  The only thing I wish was that the cord was shorter, right now i have a twist tie keeping it bundles up.
3	1255564800	Quite good sound if you like a more dynamic, punchy style with a bit of accentuated treble. Not nearly as good as the MDR V6 in terms of presence and transparency, but they're really not bad in those areas and they're 1/3 the price. Originally tried the Sennheiser HD 202's which came with a bad mini-plug. The 202's were better balanced sonically, but were too 'polite' for my tastes, with a much more subdued presentation. The Sony wiring seems thicker as well, although that could just be more insulation on same gauge wire...
5	1255305600	While these are a pain to transport and a bit bulky -- I love most all else about them.  And did I mention they are comfortable?Great to be able to swivel the single side to be able to hear a bit without putting them all the way on... great value for the money, I think.  I looked at a TON of headphones before picking these, and am so glad I did.
5	1254787200	Wow! Sony really outdid themselves on this one. These cans are really nice for listening to MP3's or music on a home stereo. But be aware that this is the lowest model of Sony MDR Studio 'phones, so there may be another model that would be better for you, depending on what you plan to use these for. Now I will go into details about these wonderful 'phones.Construction: These are quite sturdily built, being made out of some sort of plasticized rubber compound. These have been crushed between two seats in a car and did not show any sign whatsoever that there was any damage or cracking of any kind.Sound Quality: These pack a good punch bass-wise, and after about 40-50 hours listening time, the mids and highs come out too.Design: They are quite comfortable until you've worn them for about 2-3 hours straight. They have this "leatherette" stuff for the earpads, which is quite comfortable, but the supra-aural design is not quite as comfy as a circum-aural design. The cord is a little long at 6 feet for portable player use, but is a good length for watching TV or listening to your home stereo. The closed-back design lets out little sound and lets in a relatively small amount of sound for a supra-aural headphone.Overall, these headphones are good for casual music listening, TV watching, or even gaming. Here are some similar products to look into:Sennheiser HD201 Headphones,Sennheiser HD 202  Headphones,JVC HA-S150-BN Flats Lightweight Headphones - Black.If you want more studio-quality type cans for some more money, check these out:Sennheiser HD-280 Professional Headphones,Audio Technica ATHM40FS Precision Studio Headphones,Sony MDR-V600 Studio Monitor Series Headphones with Circum-Aural Earcup Design.I love these V-150's, but will be passing them on to my younger brother and will purchase some more expensive ones. Hopefully I will have the same great experience with whatever new cans I get as I had with these.--Update--After nine months of steady use, these cans up and broke! I don't know what happened, I had them in a backpack for close to a month. I pulled them out the other day, set them on my desk, and the next day I picked them up, and the right earpiece fell off! I have heard of other people having this problem, but what can you expect from $13 headphones? These were still really good while they lasted, and I still reccommend them if you're looking for the best budget cans in the universe.
3	1254182400	These are some of my favourite headphones, as they have great sound and are affordable, however, Sony must use terrible wiring/connections in their hardware, since most pairs I have owned short out after so many months of use. The pair I bought were used and already had a short in them, but I can't expect too much for a used product.
2	1253491200	To start off, these do sound pretty good. They are not very comfortable, just like every on the ear design. One of the earcups on mine fell off at the hinge, snd I cant get it to stay on anymore, so they are unusable now. I dissected and was a little disappointed to find out that they had the exact same speakers as the set of the cheap sets of headphones that came with walkmans way back in the 90's. The speaker is even set in the oblong shaped plastic piece that is used in the walkman headphones. They basically just put bigger earcups over the walkman headphones, making them more uncomfortable and raising the price.Instead, I would get a set that is big enough to go around the ears for comfort reasons. Something like the Sennheiser HD-202's
1	1253232000	These are cheap, and the sound quality matches the price. At certain volumes and/or frequencies the sound "cracks." Tinny high ranges, washed out lows. I traded my set in for a Koss solo set at about the same price. Not as comfortable (their major drawback), but with much better sound, and less background noise gets in. I'd definitely advise avoiding the Sonys in this price range. Tried a $49 Sony set at the store, however, and those headphones were comfortable and sounded very good. Get what you pay for...
5	1252886400	I bought these for my children and they work great!  Nice to have a product that not only works but is a good quality product as well.
5	1252886400	I use these headphones with a Sony DVD player and they work great. Excellent sound.
4	1252886400	I really like the sound I get from this set. The tightness did hurt my ears for a few minutes but I got used to it before the day was over.
4	1252886400	Quite decent.  Sony quality.  Light weight.  The tension is sufficient to keep the phones in place, but not too tight to cause headaches, YMMV.  Sound quality is acceptable.  So far there are no issues with reliability.  Its a simple design so there's very little that can break or go wrong with these.  The ear cups are foam with super thin vinyl/simulated leather cover that'll likely start tearing up after a year or so of moderate use.  The cups fit on top of you ears, not over them.  BTW, the plug fits the 1st gen Iphones with no problems.  This is meets or exceeds all my expectations and needs for this price range.
2	1252800000	I bought these headphones for the purpose of listening to music/video and also to do some mixing with music recordings. I have to say, while I do like a lot of sony's earbuds for their sound quality and bass response, I was somewhat disappointed with this pair of headphones. Bass response was mediocre, not as powerful as my $10 earbuds surprisingly enough. The mids and highs seemed fine. However, these headphones were extremely tight and uncomfortable. I thought it would be good that they are tight and thus would keep a lot of sound out (which they do, but at a cost). After maybe 30 minutes to an hour my ears were aching a lot, so much that I had to take off the headphones and rest my ears for a while. With glasses it is even worse. Do not buy if you want headphones that you can keep on for long periods of time.
4	1252454400	I bought the Sony MDR-V100 back in the late 90's that I had used every day at work for all those years, and just now had to buy a new pair, this MDR-V150.  I was very happy to see they still produce a comparable product.Over ten years of everyday service really is amazing.  However, the plastic head band will never last that long.  They broke at least four times over the years from repeated everyday bending, but that's to be expected with plastic and the price.  I was able to repair with Epoxy.Finally, in Sep 2009, the conductors somewhere in the cabling deteriorated to the point of losing signal in one of the phones.Comparing this MDR-V150 with the old MDR-V100.1.  The cord on the MDR-V150 is 5ft, whereas the cord on the MDR-V100 was 10ft, which was better.2.  The sound is a little different in the frequency range.  There's a little less high frequencies, but that can be compensated for with the audio player.Otherwise, the MDR-V150 seems to be good quality for the price.  We'll see how long these last and will report back when they break down.
5	1252281600	I bought this Sony head set thru Amazon under $15. It has a long cord and very good sound system. I was looking this type for a long time and bought two of them and save shiiping charge. I recommend for this item. I bought one for my son and one for myself.
5	1252108800	Excellent product - worth for its price, though litte costly - Shipping was on time and received in excellent condition...
5	1251849600	Honestly the reviews that say 5 stars for this item are spot on so I am not going to expound really. The cord is long I like that. The sound is rich enough that you don't have to blow your ears out. I wear them around town and outside sounds are just the right ignored level. Great product, great price.
4	1251504000	Glad I purchased this product.Headphones are recommeded for educational webinarprograms,I was able to hear all details in the program comfortably, much better than listening thru speaker system. Recommend highly
4	1251504000	The earcups could be larger and with better shield but then, that exactly what the more expensive ones have. I do not see any problems with performance. You need to understand that you may blow your years off with these headphones but it will require something more powerfull than an iPod. What you get here instead is more fidelity, even with a mp3 player
5	1251504000	I bought a pair of these headphones in 2002 and they are still going strong.  I've had other headphones in that time as well, but these have been rather constant.  There have been a couple of hundred dollar headphones that didn't last anywhere near as long.  Earbuds have their uses, but step up to fuller, richer sound with some real headphones.  I haven't even taken good care of them!  the sliders that fit your head are loose (but they still stay on my head!) and the phone pads and their covering are still in pretty decent shape.  They also do a reasonable job of isolating outside noises.  These have no reason to be made so solidly, especially for less than $20, but they are.  The cord is also reasonably long, and at this price its not a problem that its not coiled.  Anyway, I think everyone should have a pair of these just as a spair if not as a primary set.
4	1251331200	These headphones really do produce good sound (compared to my sony earbud headphones); however, I just wanted to note on the comfort of the headphones.  I bought these to listen to music in my office.  They form a nice tight fit and are pretty good at blocking out ambient noise, but they aren't suitable for very long periods of use.  After using them for ~2.5 hours, my ears get sore from the pressure.  So I'll probably be going with earbuds with the soft rubber coverings for all day listening in my office.  I'll be taking these headphones home for use with my digital piano and drumset.  They should be perfect for those applications.
2	1250812800	These headphones are pretty good as far as sound goes - not precise, but balanced. But they don't fold at all, and the earcups are held in place by a flimsy plastic peg in the design, which breaks quite easy, as does the headband. I've had three, then, and all pairs have just broken in normal transit. I'm upgrading to Sennheiser HD 280 Pros or Grados, which have much more robust construction. The cheapness of these guys just doesn't offset the fact that I need a few pair every year or so.
4	1250640000	I'm a bit lazy tonight so here's a list of pros and cons.pros:sounds greatdurable feelingcomfortablecons:cord can bunch
4	1250640000	Well I have been looking for a headset for quiet some time now.I came across these a few days ago and thought I could give a shot after reading the reviews.I am not disappointed in them at all.For the price I paid these are really good. The bass and treble are just perfect; not too much not too little. Even at high volumes they dont cause pain, I mean there is some amount of sound leveling. I would have loved them if covered my ears completely for 2 reasons, one it provides a better listening experience because of sound isolation and two it does not push the ears which could be painful in prolonged usage.So apart from this I am happy with the ear phones.
4	1249776000	I bought these after I read all the great (and bad!) reviews on this product. And I decided, all products have their down sides. I was in need of new headphones, was on a really tight budget, and tried these. I don't consider myself an audiophile, and haven't tried very high end headphones. I also don't use these for studio monitoring. I just use this for my Mp3 player and at the computer.Design: The headphones itself are very light. The headband is some type of plastic that seems to be very durable. The size for the ear cups are extendible (as they should be.) The padding on the cups don't seem to be leather, but I'm not very sure. Maybe it's some different cheap type of leather.Comfort: Since the headphones are very light, it sits nicely on top of your head. The extendible part works very well in having different sizes. Since these headphones are on-the ear types, they cups actually sit on your ear instead of around. This may be uncomfortable to some people and why around-the ear headphones are better for them.The padding is comfortable enough to have the headphones on for quite a bit of time. Your ears may get a little hot after awhile though.Sound quality: When I first opened them from the box, they were a little bass heavy. But maybe because I'm used to Shures. They are pretty balanced, nice mids, not screeching highs, and a small thump of bass.I said out of the box because these may require some burn in time to reach full potential. After listening to them for about 3 hours, I did hear the higher end open up a bit, as well as the bass getting richer and deeper.You can always play around with the EQ settings on your iPod or mp3.Features: What I found pretty cool and didn't find on most over the ear headphones, is an actual number for the size of extendible part for the earcups. (I'm sorry, I don't know what to call it.)The numbers go from 1-9, 9 being the largest (the longest extended.)I found this pretty useful for quickly putting on the headphones if you unextend it when you're done listening. You could quickly memorize your size and click it for both sides instead of playing around with the extendible on your head.The cord is very long and thick. Which is good for protection and studio monitoring, but not so good if you just use these for your mp3 player. You may have to tie it up with a rubber band or something if you're using it for your portable device.It also came with a 1/4 inch jack adapter for amps and such.Pros:-Light, durable plastic-Long,durable cord for studio monitoring-Good sound quality for price-price!Cons:-Very light, may seem "cheap" to those who have headphones that have some aluminum in it.-Super long cord can get in the way if you're using it with your mp3 player.-May get hot on ears after a while.-I've read reviews saying the headband puts too much pressure on the ears, and gets uncomfortable.All in all, I think my 15 dollars were well spent. Great quality headphones for a great price. I recommend these to the people that want over the head headphones with good quality, at a low price.
5	1249344000	I own 2 sets of these headphones. I've used them from studio recording to listening to music on my mp3 player. They are not noise cancelling. They are not the best recording headphones around. They are simply a good product at a good price. My oldest pair just started breaking down and it's over 5 years old. Not a bad way to spend 20 bucks. I definitely recommend this product.
4	1249084800	Just wonderful. Comfortable, good stereo and sound quality, and great volume(Labeled L & R for easy placement. Price is also reasonably low.Sony MDR-V150 Monitor Series Headphones with Reversible Earcups
3	1247788800	I own a recording studio, and generally use SONY MDR-7506 headphones. I decided to give these a try, but ultimately returned them. By comparison, these are tight fitting - they hurt my head. And the bass response is over-hyped, which makes the sonic balance out of whack.
4	1247443200	Good headphones for the price. They do not block out of the surrounding sound (no wonder, their not sound canceling headphones). Adequate bass, clear sound, and they really are not too tight (...or I could have a small head). Overall, a good buy.
4	1247443200	These are being used for our Mobile DJ company, they work great for the price>
5	1247356800	Ok, you gotta keep in mind that this ain't 400$ Headphones, but for 20$, this is as good as it gets. Great mids, high pitches are great and very good bass. I definitely recommend this product.The only thing to be careful is with the connecting part to your ipod or whatever you connect it to, because this part could get broken.Overall, I love this headphones.
4	1247184000	I'm not an audiophile or an expert, but these headphones sound just fine to me. The plastic of the headband is less elastic than I would have wanted, which means they "clamp" a little more tightly than is comfortable over many hours. (I'm pretty sure after being man-handled for a few months they will loosen up.) The cushioning on the ear-pieces is minimal, so they are not going to provide that lushly cushioned and soundproof ear-pillow that more expensive headsets will give you. Bottom line: These headphones are decent and serviceable. No supreme luxury here.
2	1246838400	plastic hinges on the headphones are delicate and break easy. great sound though - really helps down out the coworkes
5	1246406400	These are lightweight, sturdy, and comfortable, with great sound quality, and a long cord.  Everything I want and need in headphones!  I haven't found another pair that compares to these at this price and availability.
5	1246233600	They are some very good headphones they have good sounds and they don't squeeze your head like some other ones do. I though they had gotten messed up cause i can only hear out of one side and now they both work so I'm happy about that overall good headphones and they are very inexpensive good deal.
5	1246233600	I've owned two different pairs of these headphones, since twenty dollars is the most expensive thing I could afford.I wanted to try something a little more expensive, something that had more thumping bass.I remember when I first turned the music on, hoping for the best but, in some way, expecting the worst.When I pressed 'play' on my Mp3 player, a smile slowly grew on my face as the rich, quality sound pumped into my ears.You must realize, mind you, that I am writing within the context of a pair of twenty dollar headphones.I considered giving them a four, just because they cannot POSSIBLY be the best sounding earphones, but I quickly opted for the five-star since they are the best twenty dollar earphones I have ever listened to.Here are the pros:1. Much better than stock earbuds that generally come prepackaged with an Mp3 player.2. The bass can be 'felt,' and has a nice thump.3. The overall sound is just more 'professional' sounding than anything cheaper.4. Good price.The bad, however, exists, albeit fewer:1. Cranking up anything on the equalizer is a toss-up. If you keep the equalizer undisturbed, then everything sounds good. If you want some more bass or more treble, then you are probably just going to have to find something that can handle the power.The bass gets pretty muddy if you want it more prominent. Everything else does fairly well, though. (Then again, the stronger the stereo system, the better these things sound)2. It really does push tight to your head and, for some reason, seems to pinch the ears. It feels as if your ear has been folded at the edge and squeezed against your head. Not good.3. The cord is too long for listening while moving about with an Mp3 player, for example: if you're jogging; but it is not long enough to give you a lot of ambling room if you have it attached to a stationary apparatus. (Such as a computer)That's the gist of it. If it's your first twenty-dollar pair of stereo headphones, you might be impressed with the sound.If you are already an audiophile, you might be less than impressed.I've NEVER had a pair of earphones better than these, yet, but hopefully, my upgrade to a 50$ pair will prove better than these. (I'd hate to think that, excellency notwithstanding, these are as good as it gets)- Atari
2	1245888000	I was not impressed with this item. The ear cups were too small and felt to tight on my ears. It seems to have a less than quality look about it. I would not buy a similar item from Sony.
4	1245715200	I use these headphones for listening to music, etc. at work.  I'm very pleased with the quality of the sound.  The tension on the arm is a bit too much - my ears feel squashed after a prolonged use, if I can feel them at all :-)  I wish I could take away half a star for that.
5	1245715200	These headphones are amazing. Great sound and bass. No volume or bass controls but that's the way I like it. I use this for my MP3 player and my computer. Great price and I love the compact size.
5	1245196800	I bought these about a month ago and the difference between these and the crappy ear buds I was using is definitely noticeable.  I am not an audiophile, but even I can tell these are a huge improvement.  A great product at a great price!
2	1245196800	I guess you get what you pay for but these are terribly bassy and boomy.  Indistinct across the whole frequency range.  I thought it was the source material but I tried everything I could find to listen to, but it was the same.  I would recommend these to sea creatures who are used to hearing sound underwater or if you want to best replicate the sound of owning an apartment with a neighbor who listens to loud music.  For those sounds, these are great.  For listenable music, not so much.
5	1245110400	Shipped very fast and arrived in perfect condition recommend this seller for future purchases. Very very satisfied
2	1245110400	I couldn't be more disappointed with these headphones...  Plenty of bass and good volume (sensitivity) but NO clarity.  Where's the treble and mid-range?  Can barely understand lyrics.  Maybe I got a bad set, but man-oh-man are these muddy sounding.  The free headphones I got with 2 different discman players sound better.  I guess I'll have to relegate these to use while mowing my lawn...
3	1244937600	Recently I bought a pair of Koss Portapro headphones (about 30-40$), and they have definitely shown how great low budget headphones can be. I have owned a pair of Sony MDR-150's for about 3-4 years(they are quite durable). They have been great for casual use around the house and on my computer. But after upgrading to the Koss Portapro's, I have realized many flaws in my pair of Sony's. To begin the sound quality is only a tad above average. They sound muffled and you don't get a very crisp treble and strong bass. Also the design of the headphones is questionable. They can agitate your head/ears if you where them for a while, so they definitely lack in comfort(and they rip out your hair). There is some good however. The cord is very long and that helps when you move around your computer, they have a mild amount of noise reduction, and they can fit almost any sized head. Overall these are ok for the money, but I would look else where.
3	1244678400	These earphones deliver a wonderful, full sound, as expected from Sony.However, I have been unable to wear them for much over 10 - 20 minutes at a time, as they are too tight. The plastic headpiece holds too strongly and the earcups sit too tightly upon the ears, causing pressure pain within a short time.  I found myself constantly adjusting them, hoping to find a spot that was comfortable.I have gone back to an old set that is made with more "give".The terrific sound means nothing if you can't wear the earphones.
1	1244678400	I got two units for my company to see if we should order 10 more.  After 5 minutes I needed to send them back. They look nice, but that's all. The quality of the sound is not too bad, but you can only enjoy it if you are not moving, talking, or breathing, I am serious!When we tried them on, every time we moved or talked, the unit would crack and make a sound of rubber and plastic combined (I said we because other people tried them before I decide to send them back). The sound was so bad that it was hysterical.They are also to tight, it squeezes your ears, and it really hurts your head.I do not recommend this product.
1	1244505600	This product might be the best. We will never know because it did not fit the DVD player we bought as a packaged deal. We are not sure we can return the headphones because we opened the package.
2	1244160000	I bought these headphones in September of 2007, they lasted until June of 2009.The plastic "U" that attaches the headpiece to the side cup cracked so now the left ear-cup is detached and dangling.I hate to throw things out but they finally bit the dust after two years.RIP Sony Studio Headphones, 06/05/2009
2	1244073600	These headphones have really good sound for being so cheap and small, but they break very easily. Every pair i've owned of these (over 10) have either cracked in a crucial place or started to lose signal in the plug. The pair i have now has both of these problems.
5	1243641600	This product jumped right onto my head, nestled over my ears, and worked perfect from the start... not too loud, not too much bass, no screechy treble and overall left the impression that I was hearing everything the source had to display.
5	1243123200	These headphones are lightweight and the sound quality is excellent.  They are so soft and comfortable around the ears.  This is especially nice when you are using headphones for long periods of time.  We use them when watching movies on Netflix, or when playing computer games.  We keep the computer in the family room, so with the headphones, it doesn't disturb anyone else in the room.
5	1242864000	It is a Sony. The sound is great considering how much I paid. The price is definitely omitted  but I would give you hint it is Low. I used it to listen to my I-Pod and also stereo. Definitely a good buy
5	1242777600	This is quite a good buy for the price. Earphones at this quality probably are worth more than 100 dollars. I use it everyday and they have yet to fail me in terms of quality.
3	1242604800	These headphones work okay, and I guess you shouldn't expect much at the price.  The sound from my DVD player is fine on them, but the headphones almost seem to amplify, or bring in, outside sounds when you're trying to watch a DVD.  I bought them as an interim while I ordered noise cancelling headphones, and that's what they will be.  I don't know how much they bleed sound out, but I have to view my DVD player away from any competing sounds.  They fit pretty snug, too, so that's surprising!  It's a plus that you can position the reversible earphones to fit in a portable DVD travel case.
4	1242604800	The sound quality is very clear. Why didn't i rate it 5 stars? well, they are a little bit tight and make my ears hurt a little bit.
2	1242604800	These head phones sound fine.  The problem is the pain that it causes to your ears.  I tried them with and without earrings...didn't matter.  My husband also did not feel like they were comfortable.  I am sorry that I bought them!
4	1242604800	I've owned 4-5 of these through the years, theyve been on the market for a long time and for good reason. They are quality headphones for general use as well as adequate for recording and sound editing. They are comfortably balanced, reasonably loud, and work fine with any mp3 player ive ever used.The few negative points for this model relate to how they sit on your head. For folks with large roundish heads or with lots of hair, these wont have a problem staying put. The plastic holding the earpieces is sturdy, but doesnt really conform to my head, so as far as using these on the go, I wouldnt recommend it to people with short-cropped hair. Same goes for using them while laying down reading a book, they arent very convenient with the plastic piece anywhere but on top of your head.They are fine for using if you are sitting on a train or bus, however they arent really sound insulated so prepare to have your music compete with the ambient noise sometimes. They perform below average in keeping the sound confined to your ears for headphones of this type, as they are not large enough to completely envelop the ears.I think with exception of 2 of these units, they all eventually suffered the same fate, which was a breaking of the plastic piece where the earpieces swivel. This is the weakest point and a good drop can crack it. Some tape can mend these, but its a bit tricky and you lose the swivel. Be careful not to snag the rather long cords, as enough pulls will also destroy them in short order. Same as any other headphones tho. I must stress that I put some heavy use into these, they are by no means fragile but be prepared to replace them after a year or less if you are a person on the go as I am.In all, a great price for very comfortable and high quality headphones. They will likely drain your mp3 player batteries faster than average, but for home recording on a budget, or general gaming, movie watching, etc, they are pretty nice.
4	1242432000	Excellent product for the price paid.Does exactly what light weight "studio monitors" should do. Sound good, feel good.
2	1242259200	Bought a few of these hoping to use them for a promotion. The sound is unacceptable. Extremely muddy and colored compared to the true monitors they would pretend to compete with. Now I have to return them. Sadness.
5	1242086400	These are great headphones to play music from a computer, ipod, or mp3. There is not point in saying all the boring specis since every one that has left something before me has, but what i will say is if you rough house a lot or are clumsy these headphones are not for you I broke them in a month and a half from the first time I used them, but if your not planing on messing around or really monitoring music or editing movie sounds this are a great pair of headphones.
5	1241913600	I'm not an audiophile -- I just bought these headphones so I could listen to stuff on my computer while I worked away on other things.  However, I found them incredibly sensitive to both music and voice.  They're comfortable and they do the job nicely.  They're also light, compared to previous headphones I've owned.  As to the technical stuff, I'll leave that to more qualified reviewers.
4	1241654400	I really like the style of these headphones.  The cord feels durable and that it can take some abuse.  The cups, however, are a bit tight and hurt my ears after 20 minutes.  You may be able to stretch them out a bit but I am afraid to breat the frame.  The sound is pretty good.
4	1241395200	First, I have to say that I had a pair of Bose headphones before buying these. With that in mind, I am extremely happy with these. I was a little nervous that going from a highend headphone to these, that I would be sorely disappointed. I was pleasantly surprised. The sound is great, they are comfortable and a great value for the price. Would definately buy them again!
4	1240963200	these are by far the best headphones i've ever bought. the low end response is great. the only downside is the cord gets coiled.
3	1240790400	I was looking for a cheap replacement for my busted Sennheiser PX100 and found this in Amazon. The price ($13 when I bought it) and the Sony brand attracted me, so I grabbed one. I have to say it cannot match PX100's clarity.However for its price, it's a good desktop headphones. Some might complain it's too tight and I do get my ears all sweaty after half and hour or so. But again, you got what you paid for.
3	1240531200	It is excellent in sound quality and an efficient tool for video and sound editing.  However, after a long time of use, the earcups irritate the earlobes because of the pressure.  It is not very comfortable when it is used for a long period.
3	1240531200	they work very well, my only reservation is that they they don't fold to better fit in my carry on bag
2	1239840000	I bought these to replace an inexpensive pair of Sony MDR-026.  I found them to be too tight (and I have a small head), and the sound not as good.  Would not recommend these headphones.  I returned mine.
1	1239667200	My impressions after using this product for a few months. Very uncomfortable! After an hour or two my ears ache from excessive pressure. I would not recommend these headphones to anyone, they are almost unusable for me as I wear headphones all day and these just kill my ears.
5	1238976000	Perhaps the best entry-level earphones on the market, the MDR-V150s are just exceptional. I've used Koss, Skullcandy, Pioneer; and so far, value for money can't be topped. The sound quality rivals some upscale sets (Bose comes to mind), and in my line of work (hard style trance DJ), these are superb. Sure the volume levels leave room for improvement, but the overall range is far greater than you'd get at this price, let alone upwards of $200 contenders. The headset is snug; though in personal use not as tight as some claim. Noise reduction is very good, though my only gripe with the V150 headset is the relatively short cord. If only they had used the same cord as they did on the MDR-XD100, I'd be so much happier.. Overall, a fantastic headset for even the most discerning of audiophiles, and well worth the bargain basement price.
5	1238716800	SOUND IS VERY CLEAR AND SONY HEADPHONES ARE VERY COMFORTABLE....MY 4 YEAR OLD GRANDSON USED THEM .....I WOULD RECOMMEND TO ANYONE YOUNG OR OLD THAT LIKE'S QUALITY SOUND.....
5	1238457600	I use these headphones for my computer games. They work great and they're not heavy at all. Everything I wanted from gamer headphones.
4	1238284800	For the money these work just as well as claimed by Sony. I especially liked the ability to let another person listen to one headphone which is great if you are using them on an Iphone or Ipod.  Pretty good, though not exceptional, sound.
5	1237766400	Firstly, they are comfortable, over the head and on the ears, lightweight and self adjusting on the ears. They haven't those sponge (stick on)covers on the phones, so they do not stick to your ears during hot weather.Now, sound, for those technically inclined the frequency response covers most of the range you'll require. Yet the bass is suprisingly dominant, not intrusive , just there, and it does tend to mask the higher frequencies. I find them good value, and at the price a deserved 5 star.
2	1237766400	I bought these headphones as a replacement for a pair of Sony MDR-XD100s that broke.  I found them to be an uncomfortably tight fit on my thoroughly average-sized cranium.  Worse, the sound is quite muddy and indistinct.  These headphones aren't unusable, but I wish I'd just coughed up the extra $5 for the MDR-XD200s.
3	1237593600	I use many devices and I use many different types of headphones. As far as these go, they are decent for cleaning the outside sound out, are good forming to the head, but are a bit tight on the ears after say 1.5 hours wearing them and the max sound quality on them is only at a medium level. If you are set on getting a headset from sony, this is probably a decent buy, not the best of their line by far, but definitely worth the 15$.
2	1237593600	With Sony you usually get no more than what you pay for.  These headphones don't cost much and they aren't worth much, either.  Overall flimsy plastic construction, not sensitive (loud) enough, so-so frequency response.  I paid about the same price for a set of JVC headphones that are much better in every way.
2	1236729600	These headphones are compact, well-priced, and offer pretty soild sound... but they have a horrible design flaw, and break very easily.Unless you use them exclusively while sitting at your desk, these headphones will snap. I put them in my bag, walked to the library, and when I took them out one of the ear cups had snapped off due to the small weak piece of plastic holding it together.I glued it back on using rubber cement, and glued the unbroken one just to be safe... but after a few weeks they again broke even trough the rubber cement.So I applied multiple coatings of Rubber cement to keep the ear cups permanently attached to the loose plastic thing that continuously snaps...That part seems to be fixed... unfortunately it now broke at the piece of plastic that connects the  band to the aforementioned weak piece of plastic.I'm going to try one more time to repair them, but it seems a futile effort. Unless you never plan on traveling with your headphones (and even if you do... it's probably still risky)... Do not buy them... Invest in something else... I'm thinking The Sennheiser HD 202.These headphones have become such a pain to me that I have stopped random strangers I've seen wearing them... warning them to rubber glue them BEFORE they break... and hope for the best.Overall, great headphones in that they are compact, great sound, and well-priced... but very poor construction.What bother's me most is that upon purchasing these, I felt they might break easily... I brought this concern to a person working at Best Buy (where i bought it), they said that since It was Sony, a well known company, it was probably a safe buy.I should not have listened.
4	1236729600	I agree with some of the reviews that they can be a bit tight but the ear cups are cushioned well and cancels out a lot of surrounding noise. The sound quality is good and the jack adapter is a huge plus.
2	1236470400	While the sound quality is fine and the cord a decent length, the earpieces press tightly against the ears.  After 10-15 minutes with these, my ears protest, and as it pains me to pain them, I reluctantly remove the headphones.  I have asked around and received multiple assurances that my head is reasonably normal, therefore I believe the trouble lies with the headphones, not with my physiognomy.
4	1236124800	First off, let me explain why I took off 1 Star.  I took it off because after wearing these for an hour or two, it begins to feel uncomfortable.  However, that is a small price to pay for the excellence of the rest of this unit.The one-ear listening function is an interesting feature, but it was not very well thought out.  The cord that runs to each little ear piece prevents it from turning the whole way, and makes listening with one ear a bit difficult.As far as sound quality goes, this unit far surpasses every other set of headphones I've ever owned.  I tested these against a similar Bose headset in Circuit City (when they were still open).  These headphones held their own over the Bose, and while the Bose unit was definitely more comfortable, they did not sound any better at all.The mini jack to 1/4" converter piece is SO convenient.  I can plug these into my keyboard with the 1/4" piece, then take it off and listen to my iPod.These headphones seem somewhat flimsy, however, they are very durable, as I have proved. They spend a good bit of their time crammed into a laptop bag, and somehow still come out looking brand new.  The ear pieces moved back and forth and side to side to accommodate the shape of your ear, and they can also extend up and down to best fit your head.All in all, I would buy these headphones again and again.  Between the excellent price, the endless list of features, and the superb sound quality, these are by far the best budget headphones on the market.
4	1236038400	sound quality good except for high frequencies (become a bit crunchy)..  swivel ear pieces are sometimes annoying..
5	1235865600	The head phones work amazingly well very comfortable padding sounds amazing and loud! Extra long thick cord is great and useful (at times it can get in the way) the head phones come off the head band but I don't rec amend that was teff to snap back on and was scared I was going to break the little plastic pieces holding it in but it didn't over all im very pleased with it oh and came with an adaptor for my radio
5	1235865600	I find these headphones give good quality sound and are quite comfortable.  A good value.
1	1235433600	I wouldn't know what the quality of this item is, because they came to me broken.  As soon as my husband plugged these into his brand new Sony DVD player the end of the receptacle came off into the player.  I called Sony to see how to go about exchanging them for a new item and they said that is not their policy.  That once the item is purchased from a retailer that you assume the risk of the item being damaged and are responsible for it.  Therefore, if you want to obtain a "working" item you must pay for shipping to and from their repair facility and if they deem the item is unrepairable they will send you a refurbished product.  ARE YOU KIDDING ME???!?!!?!?  I just bought a SONY DVD PLAYER and the compatible SONY HEADPHONES and it is my fault your product came broken??  I was very disappointed to say the least.  With a home full of Sony products to include 2 VAIO Plasmas, a camcorder, digital camera, surround sound system, boombox, portable DVD player AND these crappy headphones...I am saddened to know that they were willing to cast aside a lifetime customer for $17 headphones.  Buyer beware on this product, and all other Sony products!!
5	1235347200	I'm no audiophile, but I've discarded or given away lots of inexpensive headphones for being uncomfortable, falling off, or sounding crummy. This is my first pair of closed headphones, and I just love them. At first, I thought they might be too hot on my ears, but I've gotten used to how they feel with my ears closed inside. At work, we can't play music because it would disturb others, and my iTunes playlist sounds so great with these. Plus the music doesn't "leak out" so I can turn it up if I want to. I suppose the only downside is that people have to tap me for attention and I'm started sometimes.
3	1234483200	These headphones deliver good sound at a great price. Though they're far too tight, even at the widest setting. And I only have an average-sized head. After wearing them for an hour my ears start to get sore. They also can't be folded for easy packing. Ultimately this is best for people who want headphones for home-use and have small heads.
5	1234396800	I am hard of hearing, these head phones make everything so clear I really can't beleive the difference they make to my hearing, the sound is so clear, I wish I could use them talking to people.
4	1234310400	I have owned several headphones and I'm VERY critical of sound quality. While I've never been a fan of Sony Headphones, I absolutely recommend getting these (I paid nearly [...] bucks at my electronics store, but you can find them cheaper). These phones have a wider-than-usual sound range resulting in lower bass than your average phones and also higher highs.I still feel like there there's something missing sound-wise and they do sound a bit "hollow" - that's the only reason I give them a 4-out-of-5 rating.
5	1234224000	Good quality, not too tight like some of the reviews said, great sound for the price.
3	1234137600	This model's headband has no cushion, and the earpiece foam is too thin and not dense enough to cut out much external noise. Therefore it is not very comfortable after 30 minutes, and not good for noisy environments.Sound quality is good, however.
5	1233878400	I am hearing impaired have been looking for headphones with great sound. These are perfect!!! Reasonable price, fantastic sound.
5	1233878400	Exceeded my expectations, very comfortable with soft leather-like ear pads. The cord is always a concern. Sony used a high quality strong cord. The sound is crisp and precise with a perfect blend of bass.
3	1233619200	These have a great sound for the price.  I love them!  However after about 20-30 minutes my ears are throbbing from the pressure.  Also, it puts a small amount of pressure on the top of my head, and that starts to hurt after a while also.  I think I'm building up an immunity to it :)  But it's not FUN!
4	1233360000	I was surprised by the sound quality of these headphones. I am using them with my Creative Labs Zen MP3 player. The Sony headphones deliver surprisingly good sound quality for a relative low cost. As an extra bonus, these headphones help block out distracting background sounds. Although these headphones don't come up to my Sony MDR-CD50 Digital headphones, they only cost a fraction of what the digital headphones cost.Also, the MDR-V150 comes with a dual plug-in arrangement making them adaptable to other electronic devices. Overall, if you are in the market for a quality pair of headphones at a "reasonable" price, consider the Sony MDR-V150 as a wise choice.
5	1233187200	I have a pretty small head (about 7 1/8 ") but I have these on the smallest size and their very comfortable. Also, for $15 these things produce pretty good sound. Base isn't too loud but is still there, highs and mids are really good too. Also noise cancelling is pretty good. I would definitely recommend these to anyone who wants comfortable headphones with good sound (not great) but good enough for a very reasonable price.
2	1232928000	I've only played around with cheaper headphones, the highest end thing I've ever tried being my pair of Koss PortaPros, but even I can tell that the Sony MDR-V150 is a POS.  From the lowest of lows to the highest of highs, everything manages to sound indistinct and vaguely bassy.That would be fine and all, but there are many many headphones in lower and higher price ranges that sound better.  Even my cheap-o $3 JVC Marshmallows are far clearer than these.
1	1232841600	I don't write reviews regularly, but I was so unhappy with this product that I felt I should. The only reason I wanted to buy a headphone was to listen to music while working on my laptop, without disturbing other people around me. This headphone is rediculous, as even at the lowest volume set, others in the room can hear the music too! Isn't it the whole purpose of headphone to keep the sound only to YOUR ears, not others? It is extremely uncomfortable on the head too, although the ear pads are relatively comfortable. The sound quality is just ok. I wish I had spent a bit more money and had bought a better quality headphones. This product ranks #1 on the list of my worst purchases for 2008!
4	1232755200	got it as a present for friend, came in perfect condition, though i thought it would come sooner but then again it was the holidays...
1	1232409600	Do not buy these headphones.  I have used earbuds on up to $300 headphones.  These are the worst pair I have ever used next to a $3.00 pair I once bought at Walgreens.  The design is good, they even look cool, but the sound from these headphones is terrible.  In fact, I don't even consider it sound, it's more like noise.  Rest assured, this review is unbiased, do not spend money on these.  For $15 how can you go wrong???  Not true, they aren't even worth free.
5	1232323200	I love these headphones, and earbuds just cannot compare.  After my old high-quality headset was destroyed by my cats, I attempted to make do with earbuds, but I could tell that the sound was nowhere near as rich.  Additionally, I found that all of my earbuds took certain pieces of music and added vibration static to the songs.  Finally I had enough and went back to a proper headset.My music sounds SO much better now, and a lot of subtle elements that I'd been missing are much clearer.  I'm going to be doing a lot of work this semester with audio equipment, and I already know that these headphones will help me with that instead of getting in my way and giving me inaccurate playback results, which the earbuds would have.  Most headphones that reproduce sound at this level of quality go for considerably more money, so it's definitely the choice for someone (like me) who's on a limited (student) budget.
5	1232236800	The headphones are comfortable, and the quality of the sound is richer than others I've used.
5	1231804800	Sony headphones are a must to fully enjoy your Sony portable DVD player.  When I received them I was taken aback for a minute when it looked like the plug was too big for the holes in the DVD player.  Then I realized that the  jack slips right off and there is a smaller  plug to fit the  Sony  portable DVD player.  The larger "cover jack"  allows you to use your headphones on any standard audio plug.  This is a plus I did not  realize when I ordered the headphones. Good buy and great quality sound.
2	1231632000	i bought these earphones thinking they would have decent sound, well I was sadly mistaken, they sounded terrible and after about 3 weeks broke, the left ear kept fading in and out and then crackling.the sound is very fake and the noises you hear from the wires knocking anything is very deep and loud.also i found the padding was not all that comforatble, if i wore them for over an hour or so my ears hurt.i would rather pay an extra $10 or $15 and get a decend pair of senneheiser's or the like. the Sony sound was terrible.
5	1231632000	These are an excellent buy. They outperform other headphones I have tried that cost twice as much (and  more).Very good bass and treble (compared to my older MDR-G52 headphones), sound production is not overly loud.Very good bang for the buck.
5	1231632000	Purchased these to use on my 14 inch HP and I must say the quality of the sound is outstanding!
5	1231545600	Headphine a Christmas gift for my daughter to go with:http://www.amazon.com/gp/r.html?R=V7DM3H2DRKV8&C;=2Z58TN7KQMEMR&H;=2J7DzP1ACTPaSg0MknJsFVsMJaYA&T;=C&U;=http://www.amazon.com/review/create-review/ref%3Dpe_6680_11007840_cm_cr_ec_add_1_h_c11007840?ie%3DUTF8%26nodeID%3D%26asin%3DB00139L592%26customerID%3DA2NZ9KHCZ06HP6I haven't personally used by my daughter has and hasn't complained.
5	1231459200	this is a good set of headphones. i like the low price & the sound is excellent
4	1231372800	I normally buy really cheap headphones, so these are definitely a step up for me. The cord is longer than I'm used to and they come with an adapter for larger jacks. The headphones' earcups should be comfortable, but they are just a little bit too snug for that. However, they are still better than the really cheapo headphones I used to buy. The sound certainly is much better and I don't have to  run the volume very high at all to hear the nuances of the music properly. Since I use these at work, it's important that I can hear my boss' voice when he needs to speak to me, so that feature is great.
1	1231286400	These things will squeeze your brains out of your eyeballs - listen to other people - I didn't.Sound quality is woolly, not crystal.That said I bought some Sennheiser PX100's infinitely better sound and now my head does not feel like it is in a torturers vice.Could have save myself the $15 and some pain - although if you are thinking about surgery for ears that stick out - this is a cheap alternative.
4	1231200000	I purchased two sets of these headphones, as a portable DVD player I also bought had dual headjacks.  This way, my son and a friend can watch a movie or listen to CD's, both using a set of headphones.  My son has used them, and I have used them and we think they sound good.  I'm no sound quality expert, but I think they are decent. For the money, definately give them a try.
5	1230854400	Wonderful sound quality that cuts out unwanted noise.  Comfortable and secure.  My husband loves these headphones and says they're the best he's ever used.  Great product for the price, too!
4	1230681600	Forgot my headphones, so I bought these in St. Maarten on vacation for $40....worth every penny, though I would have saved a lot of money if I could've bought them from Amazon!Very good sound quality, although they are bigger and bulkier than buds. (duh!)
5	1230508800	Sony MDR-V150 Monitor Series Headphones with Reversible EarcupsThese headphones are awesome. They have excellent bass and excellent treble. Cord and connector are high quality and fit securely anywhere. When you first get them, the ear pads are stiff and may hurt a little if you wear them a long time, but they soften up within a day. The cord is extremely long, if you use them for an mp3 player you may want to bundle or braid the cord so you don't trip on them.These headohpnes are so awesome, I bought a second pair after my first pair finally broke after several years of heavy use!
5	1230422400	these headphones are the best for any under $50 value. they reproduce lows and highs without distortion. lightweight and comfortable. sony did very well and kept the price down for people like me that dont want to spend a fortune to get quality. the cord is long enough to give some moving room without unplugging. outside noise becomes silent as long as the music is playing.
5	1230422400	Just an all around nice product.  Nice sound, good adapter. We bought three and we love them.
5	1230249600	I was traveling in 2006 when I purchased a set of Philips headphones ("DJ-Style"). The headphones soon wore out and I ended up purchasing the Sony MDR-V150s because of their similar style and price to the Panasonic headphones. I soon realized what a better deal I had made when I bought the Sonys: full sound for under $20, comfortable fit for an average-sized head, and quality that has lasted me through 3 years of college and counting (and I'm a music major, so I do a lot of listening). A friend of mine purchased a set of Bose headphones for $200, and I tried them out. I have to admit, the sound is sure different, but I had grown accustomed to my Sonys so much that he had to persuade me that the sound was better.If it matters, I've worked/performed at several music venues and have set up for a few professional bands, and I always take note of which headphones techies are using. I was surprised to realize while working at Ichthus Festival in 2007 that even a few of the bands' sound techs were using these headphones when on tour. Unless you're EXTREMELY picky with your choice of range, equalizing, and fit, you're going to be pleased with these for a long time.*****UPDATE*****It's been over 8 years, and I'm still happy with my Sony MDR-V150s. I recently replaced the ear cup pads with a $12 replacement order on Amazon, and the headphones are like new again. Let me reiterate that human hearing is limited to a small range that most headphones offer (and expand upon), and it takes a blind test of comfort and EQ preferences to tell the difference between these and another, more expensive set of headphones. I have stepped on these and their cord COUNTLESS times over the years, and their quality has never diminished. Still happy!
5	1230249600	I am in love with these headphones. lolThey actually increase the volume of whatever you are watching. My laptop's volume even at very high is hard to hear, but when use the headphones the volume is increased. very pleased so far.
4	1229817600	I do production work and have gone through many headsets over time. Out of all the headphone I have had over the years these are my very favorite. They fit very well and keep outside noise to low levels. Plus the price is cool too.
5	1229644800	Overall the headphones are great! They do seem to be a little tight after a while but for the price you cant realy complain. It dosn't help that I have a big head eather. I would strongly recommend these to anyone looking for some good low price headphones.
5	1229644800	I have had these headphones for over 2 years and they are terrific.  These are not meant to be pro headphones but rather entry level.  Sound quality is just fine, there is a good amount of bass, treble and everything I need in a decent quality headphone.I did read some of the negative reviews.  People expecting audiophile quality at this price need to get their collective heads examined because the pro audiophile headphones cost 10 times the price.  For the price this product exceeds expectations.
4	1229558400	I love these headphones. I bought them a few years ago, bought another pair as a gift for a friend, then bought another for myself when my cat chewed through the cord of my original ones.The sound is very clear, the bass feels very full. Excellent volume; even at low levels these headphones will easily drown out local noises (like my girlfriend yelling at me to do the dishes...).I've wanted some of the high quality Bose or Sennheiser headphones for a long while, but I just haven't been able to convince myself that I really need to spend the money on them when these sub-$20 headphones work so wonderfully.If you're a real audiophile (and you wouldn't even be considering these if you were), then you'll find flaws for sure. But for an every day user, gamer, music lover, this cheap little set is wonderful.From a comfort perspective, I prefer around ear headphones. These are on ear, but the padding is very comfortable. After a particularly lengthy gaming session (6+ hours), I do start to notice my ears getting a little sore, but a short break and I'm good to go again.Many people have complained that the headphones are tight. This is true, but I think it's tighter in the top of the arch, and not so much in the headphone portion. If you try to expand the headphones to take the pressure off the top, they feel like they want to slip off your ears. I'd say that that is the biggest issue.Pros:-Clear, loud sound. Drowns out external noise.-Very decent bass.-Comfortable.-Cheap!Cons:-Ears get sore for very long use durations (5-6+ hours)-Top of the headphones tends to press against the top of your head. Gets uncomfortable after a while.
5	1229299200	These are comfortable, don't make your ears hurt like so many other brands do (at least they don't for me and I am not a small person). I use these with my cheapy mp3 player (yes, I wear them on the street xDD) and the sound is excellent, really makes a huge difference compared to earbuds. You'll be surprised what kind of sound you can get out of something like theCreative Zen Stone 1 GB MP3 Player (Black)! Just don't actually waste your money on that player. If you already have something like that, though, it'll really amp things up. And the extra power needed to run the headphones doesn't seem to make much of a difference for mp3 player life. I also use these headphones for my PC extensively.
5	1229212800	I am very pleased with these headphones.  Very nice quality for the price and comfortable to wear. The cord is also a little longer than most of the more inexpensive models. All in all a great buy.
4	1229126400	I received these headphones last night and I am impressed. Great sound. I would recommend these to any one who is trying to buy headphones on a budget and who is still looking for quality! You will not be disappointed!
4	1229040000	For what I paid I am pretty happy with this product. Decent sound. Pretty light and comfortable.
1	1228953600	We have two of these headphones that I am in the process of throwing in the trash. They were only used a few times when a little plastic tab on the piece between the earpiece and the "headband" broke. Now the earpieces will not lay flat against your ear and they cannot be used. I expected better quality from Sony.
1	1228608000	One side doesn't work.  It is such a hassle to package everything up and send it back for a refund and so I just went to the store and bought another set.
4	1227657600	If you want to marvel at the sound of your favorite record or be blown away by engineering wizardry - move on.  These headphones don't even rate enough to appear on most audiophile "best of" critiques.  But for something to leave at your desk, they're pretty incredible for the money.  Average comfort.  OK sound.  OK build.  OK isolation.  All for the price of three Latt&eacute;s.
2	1227484800	I had gotten these as an exchange from a set of headphones that cost twice as much. And while the sound quality is better than those headphones, these will be going back to the store as well.I have a relatively small head, so it wasn't crushing my head like other people have described. But the headband is incredibly uncomfortable, even after adjusting several times in an attempt to alleviate the pressure on top of my head. The ear pieces were just as uncomfortable.Get these only if you want great sound... by holding them to one ear like they are designed to do.
2	1227484800	These phones did not deliver as I expected.  You need to turn up the volume on devises they are connected to to get any decent audio sound out.  I have buyers remorse for buying this product.
5	1227139200	I have purchased several of these in the past, and have never had a problem with them.  They have fairly good sound, and comfortable earcups.  I especially like how they come with a 3.5mm to 1/4" adapter for uses ranging from an actual studio, to a mp3 device.  Overall, I would recommend this to anyone looking for a higher quality, cheap pair of headphones.
4	1226793600	I bought these on a lark after absolutely destroying my old Dynex pair (caught my foot on the cord as I jumped out of a bus and just ripped them apart). I just went to my local big box electronic store and bought the pair of headphones that looked most similar to my Dynexs, and let me tell you I am impressed.I bought these for about 25 dollars, and they are very nice. Lovely clear sound, though you do have to turn the volume up quite a bit to get the full effect. I've found treble to be represented fairly well, with base coming in just short of it. I don't listen to too much base-heavy music, so this does not concern me.Now, I have a small head and small ears, so the tightness that bothers other users is actually a plus for me. No more headphone slippage! However, the cord is a little thick and bulky, thus detracting from the portability of the headphones.All in all, an excellent pair of headphones for the price.
5	1226275200	I have only had these for a few weeks & I think they are great!!They sound really good. I've used them for my portable DVD player & I haven't had any problems with them. If you want a good pair of headphones for a really good price then I suggest you purchase these. They fit snug to your head & really keep out the back ground noise. The stereo sound is great.
5	1225756800	I've used a lot of different headphones in my days.  I always go back to the Sony MDR-V150.  They are the best sounding consumer headphones on the market.  They're cheap and they have amazing bass and treble response.  I've used ear buds that cost $15-20 and ones that cost $160 and the MDR-V150 is still better than all of them.  I would buy these headphones over anything else.  Plus ear buds can easily damage your hearing in ways that these cannot.  Be warned though you need to be careful with them.  I've had a few pairs break where the speaker attaches to the headband.
4	1225238400	As a longtime audiophile and musician, i've always had high standards for headphones, speakers, etc.  A quality headphone should present the music (from a quality source, of course) in a neutral, uncolored, yet detailed way, with good overall tonal balance, 'air', and timbral accuracy, and feel comfortable.  Bass should be present, but not enhanced or overpowering.  I am happy to say that these 'cans' (slang for 'headphones') deliver when it comes to all of the aforementioned characteristics.  Yes, they do NOT sound like a pair of electrostatic 'Stax' high end 'cans', or a pair of Sennheiser HD-595's, BUT they sound like they cost a lot more than the ridiculously low asking price here on Amazon!  Hence, they are a GREAT VALUE in quality sound, to say the least.  Like most speakers and 'cans', they sound noticeably better after 'breaking them in' a few hours.  After plugging them in for the first time, put your CD or MP3 player on 'repeat', turn up the volume fairly loud, and let them 'break in' for a few hours.  Your ears will thank you!
5	1225152000	I've had this for about two-three months and so far it's been giving me no grief. I don't hear a lot of hip-hop music so I can't testify about the bass requirement for "loud, pounding" songs; but compared to the earphones I've had, this one had the clearest, cleanest sound. Plus the headphones are adjustable. I'm very satisfied with my purchase.
2	1224806400	These Sony headphones have very good sound but are a pain on the ears.  As others have stated after 20 minutes or so one wants to visit a clinic for the pain.  Look elsewhere for better comfort.
5	1224720000	Best product I ever used... simple and effective...I am using this more than 2 years... no breaks or cracks... whoever comes to see me at my office, they like it and buy it... so nice and comfortable.cable is very hard, which is good sometimes as you connect somewhere down and accessing, it won't break the connection...anyway, I really love it... in every part of it.
5	1224115200	These headphones are great, the sound quality is good and they're really comfortable. But best of all they were less then 1/2 what my friends had paid for the same ones. Shipped really fast and i am very satisfied.
4	1223942400	These are not bad at all! If the price ratio of the Bose to this pair of headphones ($110 to $13) applied to the overall quality, Bose has a lot of work to do. I agree; the headphones are a little too tight to be unnoticeable, but the quality of sound and price make up for it by tenfold. If Sony could work on making the headphones less snug, I would automatically give them 5 stars.
3	1223942400	I bought these less than a year ago, and they've worked well for a while. The sound was pretty good, and I didn't find them uncomfortable as many people have. I've had other problems, though:1) I like to use my own mic for recording stuff into my computer, and the cord of these headphones get very thick at the end, near the plug, and since there isn't much space between the mic and the speaker jack, I always had to use my mic and headphones separately.2) The plastic near the cups broke, and I can't be bothered to research the warranty. Just bought a Sennheiser CX300 today.
3	1223337600	I have two main problems with these headphones:1) They do not cover your entire ear (they smash your ear to your head and are uncomfortable)2) The sound quality is very flat (typical to Sony; you may like this)For the price, I think these are slightly better than average headphones. They seem well built.Although these don't cover your ears entireley, they mash your head tightly enough that they actually block out a good amount of sound. However, no matter how I adjust them they mash my head too tightly to be comfortable for more than a few minutes...The sound is too balanced for my taste -- I prefer a bit more 'oomph' behind my bass and treble. People like my mom -- who turn their bass down on their car stereos -- would like these headphones. They don't sound bad, they just don't sound great.I love that they have a little nubbin on the left headphone so you don't have to look at them when putting them on...
4	1223251200	I bought a set of these for my personal use at my home computer and they have really worked well. I had gone through a few other sets of headphones and most aren't as sturdy or sound as good as these. When I needed to buy headphones for my work, (computer based training) it was a no brainer to select these. I ordered four sets for our training department, and I'll update if we run into any issues, but I doubt it will happen anytime soon. I've used mine at home for about 3 years, averaging probably 10-15 hours a week and they are still working well.
5	1223078400	These headphones are a great value. The sound quality is impressive and they are a definite upgrade over earbuds. My music sounds fuller with these headphones and there is great bass that's not overbearing at all. they are also comfortable to wear for extended periods provided I am not wearing earrings or my glasses. I love these headphones and the price makes them an especially great purchase.
4	1222905600	I've been using these headphones for about two years now, and I love them. The only problem is that I've used them so much that the vinyl covers on the ear pads have decayed. The right ear went first, and after a bit of searching I found replacement pads(part #211566701) for $4 on Sony's supply site.I should've bought two, because now the left ear is shredded (which drastically reduces the sound quality) and Sony's site has replaced the nice cheap pad with a $14 model (part #211566702). I love these headphones, but for that price I could just about buy a brand new set.Long story short, enjoy them while they last. They're excellent headphones for the price, but if you use them every day, the ear pads will eventually fall apart and replacements aren't worth buying.
5	1222732800	I play in a Worship band at our church.  We are a growing church of about 1200 and have 5 services a week.  I play in 3 of them. We are always having trouble with head sets as they just don't work or break down.  We decided to try these as they are not expensive.  We have found we love these.  I love the way the ear piece sets just on your ear.  We have found they are not too tight in the head as others have stated. I am a women and other guys are wearing them too and are not having a problem.We have long reshural during the week and an hour before each service we play.  So I am not wearing them all day long, but for the time I do they are the greatest so far.  I am going to buy me personal set to wear at home,as I bought these for our band.  They are very comfortable.
1	1221782400	I bought these headphones, Sony MDR-V150s, hoping they might be decent enough to replace my 10+ year old Sony MDR-V100 headphones, or at least work as a secondary set until I found the right higher-quality headphones for daily use. Unfortunately, the audio quality was awful. Right out of the box, they sounded incredibly muddy/muffled/dull compared to my well-worn V100s. I went back and forth for a few minutes, between the new headphones and my old ones - the audio source wasn't the problem. Plus the cord was a bit thin/flimsy and too short for me, and the ear pieces felt like they didn't have enough padding.I'm not an audiophile, and I wasn't expecting a lot from headphones at this price, but I just couldn't use these. They were back in the box after about 15 minutes of use and returned to the big box store a few days later.
5	1221696000	These are perfect for someone who wants excellent sound without having to carry or wear enormous headphones. They are comfortabe, have a long cord, and cover the ear without looking obnoxious. I saw complaints about the thickness of the cord, but it isn't bothersome to me. I would highly recommend these to anyone looking for a great set of headphones.
2	1221609600	I got these in May and the right channel just stopped working in September. Before that, they were okay as a pair of low end headphones for my laptop and stereo. Buy at your own risk. If you don't demand perfect sound quality (I'm not exactly an audiophile, either), these are decent. If they hold up. Otherwise, if you want something of greater quality and that is likely to be a better investment, you should be willing to part with more cash for a better pair, or look for cheaper low end pairs.
3	1221523200	Not bad for around 20 bucks.  I'm not an audio junkie, so these headphones are good enough for my purposes.  I bought these because I could not stand the ear buds that came with my mp3 player.My only major complaint is the length of the cord.  I wish Sony would come out with a version of these headphones with a cord about 4 ft. long.  If you buy this for use with your mp3 player, you may find yourself hassling with the cord.These headphones are good to use outside of the home because you can still hear everything that's going on around you as long as you don't blast your music.  Warning:  you may look ridiculous wearing these out in public.  I'm not fashion savvy, so the aesthetics don't bother me.  For those of you who hate ear buds and are looking for a cheap pair of headphones with okay sound, these are the way to go.
5	1221350400	For the price, these can't be beat. The sound is excellent, there's a lovely depth for the bass lines and the treble is pretty clear. I've had these for about 4 years now and they haven't broken once; they've survived multiple moves, backpacks, and general abuse.I have a somewhat smaller head so they aren't too tight for me (although they press if I'm wearing earrings). The cord is a little long and thick, and the earpieces themselves a bit big, for these to be viable portable headphones. Desktop use is where they really shine.I haven't had a problem with them catching in my shoulder-length hair.These are fantastic, you won't regret getting them if you're looking for something that sounds pretty great, has a very decent price, and will last you a long time.
4	1221177600	I have the SONY MDR J10 behind the ear earphones which give great sound .. i wanted something with a better 'punch' .. tried on a friends SkullCandy pair with the built in subwoofer, but the vibrations were irritating..So decided to for the MDR 150 and these are awesome! the bass is perfect .. not too much, definitely not less .. i loved listening to my fav hiphop songs but was afraid listening to rock wont be fun, but i was wrong! you can hear the bass guitar playing so clearly .. the quality is superb!these are an awesome pair of headphones and surely a steal at a price of around $20 .. very comfortable as well .. one star less cause they dont come in several colors :p  a white pair wud look cooler!
1	1221004800	can't wear them for more than about a half hour w/ my ears starting to hurt.  Terrible.  Sound quality is ok, but they feel on my ears is terrible.
2	1221004800	I bought these Sony MDR V150's about 4 months ago. They did not last long. The flimsy plastic fork-shaped connectors between the ear cups and the headbands snapped when I rested my head on one side. I bought the Sennheiser HD 202  as a replacement. The 202's are far better, and for a few dollars more a big improvement. I wish I'd bought the 202's in the first place. Please see my review of the Sennheiser HD 202 Headphones for more information. I chose the Sony set because it seemed the least expensive headphone set. Spending less is only good if the product lasts long enough to receive value, these did not last.If you are still considering this set, remember the Sony MDR V150 are actually very small diameter cups supra-aural, not circumaural. These are important distinctions to know when purchasing headphones. Circumaural will fit completely over and around the ears, not contacting the outer-ear parts. The supra-aural models look very similar (especially in photos), but are smaller in diameter and will fit with the pad contacting the outer-ear parts (penna). That contact flattens the outer-ear against the skull, causing pressure. My motivation for moving to over-the-head sets from earbuds and plugs was to avoid irritation. Circumaural is the most comfortable choice for sensitive wearers.I gave these 2 stars because they are not useless. If you want an inexpensive set, they sound ok. If handled with care, they could work well enough. They are not uncomfortable, just found to be far less comfortable than the others, after comparison.
2	1220832000	I found the Sony MDR-V150 Headphones to be too tight for my head, and I believe many other reviewers share the same view as me. After 15-20 minutes of use, I had to remove them because of the growing pressure against my ears. I ended up with a splitting headache after I used these headphones. And what's more, the sound quality isn't that great either.And I'm not comparing these with in-ear iPod headphones. I'm comparing the Sony ones with on-ear headphones of other make. For example, I previously owned one made by Panasonic, and the sound quality was superb and it was very comfortable to have over your ears. Even the Bose on-ear regular headphones are comfortable and provide good quality sound, although those are a lot more expensive.
2	1220227200	These headphones are fine for the average joe, but are a nightmare for the audiophile. The frequency range is small, and focuses on the bass. this is pretty bad for those who listen to the fast paced power metal, where the guitars are going off into the super high-pitched notes. These dumb down the sound and do not feel like they "hug" your ears. They should be sending a pure, surrounding sound that gives birth to all frequencies, instead of muffling them. after all, they are supposed to be monitors. they should atleast be able to provide a clearer sound. i am dissapointed.
5	1219968000	Great product.  Good Price.  Considering buying another pair to have as a spare.
5	1219881600	These sound better than my Koss Pro 4AA's which I paid $100 for, and sound almost as good as my Bose Triports. I went through 3 pairs of Bose Triport headphones before giving up on them. They are incredibly flimsy at the swivel joints on each ear; each broke after about 3 months of use just putting them on and off my head, and I don't have a big head. I'm not a kid and I take care of my stuff, not abusing them at all. The Koss heaphones are VERY heavy and do not have the full sound that these have. I picked up a pair of these Sony's at Walmart for a quick fix and they turned out to be great -- light, good sound, inexpensive, robust. These I've dropped several times and they are fine.
5	1219622400	I tried headphone after headphone and had about given up on finding a pair I liked for my iPhone (1g), then I tried these and was amazed. I head nuances of music I had not heard with any of the other headphones (both over the head and earbud). They also have more volume range than the others, allowing lower listening levels without maxing out the volume control. I know some have complained about the fit, but they feel very comfortable to me. Give them a try and see what you think. You may be surprised like I was. (And a great price on Amazon!)
1	1218758400	I'm something of a music freak on a very tight budget. This, in combination with the fact that I was in a hurry to get a new pair and didn't do my homework, is why I shelled out 28 bucks for these V150's.What can I say? They stink. Since these are on-ear instead of over-ear, comfort is going to be less than the circumnaural type, but these are especially bad, with an extremely tight fit that renders them painful after about 10 minutes, especially if you wear glasses. Even worse than this is the shamefully poor sound quality. I don't mean the obvious "they don't sound as good as $200 phones", I mean "they're really, really bad even for the $20 range." Undefined bass and incredibly muddy-sounding mediums and highs are what we're talking about here. I was literally stunned when I first tried them out. I've had dollar-store phones with better clarity. The  biggest waste of my money so far this year. I'm still kicking myself. Please, please don't buy these headphones. If you truly don't care about quality, go get a pair at your local dollar store, they certainly can't sound worse. But if you want some cheap headphones with good quality, go for something hugely better in the same price range, like the Sennheiser HD201's, or heck, even the somewhat mediocre Sony MDR -XD100's.
3	1217980800	I've had these cheap SONY cans for about three years now and the earpiece has finally worn off. Hence I was in the market for a new pair of everyday cans.The SONY studio monitors were my go-to headphones for general use (watching movies/listening to music on my laptop).Then I came across a pair of Sennheiser HD 202's on sale (Musician's Friend, 19.99!) and said why not. Sennheiser has an amazing rep and I've always wanted a pair.MY GOD are the Sennheiser HD 202's better than the SONY. First off they completely surround my ears, where the SONY's cups are so small that they just basically sit on top of my ears, and would actually become PAINFUL after about an hour. And the sound quality and Bass of the Sennheiser HD 202's I feel are superior.The Sennheiser HD 202's are WAY more comfortable. Get them, you will not be disappointed!
1	1217894400	Headphones are way too small for the shape. They were going for a cheap knock off of dj headphones and failed.
5	1217808000	I just bought these headphones yesterday for a 7 hour car ride. It says no noise canceling, but I think it has it anyway. I couldn't hear anything around me, not my sister's dvd player, or the radio at full volume. I had these at about half volume. I am even using them right now. I have an unusually clacky keyboard, and can't hear it at all with these on. The almost around ear design really does work, in that I can hear almost no background noise compared with my old iPod earbuds. I threw those out after about 10 minutes using these. My dad has the bose on-ear headphones, and I used those on the drive out. Those don't even match up to the sound quality these sony headphones have. Plus, these have a much larger volume range. I would definitely recommend these to anyone.
5	1217376000	I have bought many headphones over the years for the kids, and so far, these are the absolute best. The kids don't complain about them which is a big plus for me!
1	1217203200	I dont know if my headphones are broken but they are incredibly dull sounding, kind of like listening to the music through a duvet. I know theyre cheap but the free ones i got on Jetblue are better sounding.
2	1217116800	I bought these headphones several years ago and use them regularly. The sound is passable for a pair of headphones at this price point. The bass response is not overly bloated like many cheap closed back headphones and they don't seem to color the source material very much. I have absolutely zero complaints about their audio performance. Can you get a better-sounding headphone at this price point? Probably. But these sound perfectly OK in my opinion.However, these are perhaps the most painful headphones I have had the displeasure to wear. I wear glasses and find that the earcups press my ears into the earpieces. After an hour or so, my ears feel abused. Even without glasses, I can only bear to keep these headphones on for about an hour.Overall, I cannot recommend these headphones due solely to the fact that they are not wearable for any extended period of time.
4	1216598400	I gave this as a gift and was pleased with the price, weight of the headphones and they quality of sound they picked up. May tangle the hair a little by the way the top fits, but can't beat it for the price.
4	1216166400	Great sounding headphones, especially for the price.The only thing I don't like about them is how long the cord is; I wish they had a spiral/telephone cord, that would make using them on-the-go much easier. Otherwise they're my favorite until I invest in a really nice pair.
5	1215475200	Advertising/Promises: From someone who has owned at least 20 different earphones/headphones in a 15-year period - these are worth it. The last one I got a week before these were the most expensive I've ever bought - a noise canceling one from RCA $25. Not a good one on very many counts. These headphones (the Sony MDR-V150) don't cover more than half of each side of my face - thereby pressing in under my ear/cheek and cause terrible pain after listening for just a few hours. It doesn't say "Noise canceling" and you have to turn on a switch for you to get that benefit - which turns out to be just a louder volume! Or do you have to get an extra AAA battery to engage to noise canceling feature.Cable: The cable is longer than the typical 4'-0", so that means 2 more feet of moving around from the source of the music.  Also, I don't see this one having cable shorts in a while, it looks very sturdy and able to handle everyday activities.Sound: In my experience this $19 headphone has allowed me to listen at a comfortable volume without sacrificing the quality. Sony quality. The problem with the ear buds that come with my Zune is that they are just too loud - even on volume 1 to listen for an excessive period, plus I just don't think that it's healthy to have something stuck inside my ear blaring music for 4-6 hours per day. Here, I can have the music just as a background sound - and it does sound like that even though it's on the ear.Comfort: I haven't found a problem with the tightness. In fact, I often forget that I'm wearing them until I have to get up from my desk. Besides, my theory is - keep trying different ones `till you find the one you like. For me - this is it and it's not going back! Just wished I knew where to get extra/replacement ear covers, because I'm keeping this one for a long time.
5	1214956800	Other reviews complain that these are uncomfortable. For me, they fit very well on my ears. The two circular parts that go on the ears are designed to twist a little bit to fit to the shape of different listeners' heads.These headphones are very well built and durable. One time I was vacuuming while wearing them, and because of the long cord (which I had neglected to tuck into my pocket), got sucked right into the bottom of the vacuum. The cord got sucked into that Hoover so fast that the force ripped the headphones clean off of my head in an instant. But after untangling them from the vacuum, the thick and sturdy cord was miraculously still in like new conditon with no shorts in it or anything!Sure they're comfortable, affordable, and durable, but what about the sound? Well I find them to be great. Unlike other headphones like the cheap buds that came with the iPod, these give a wide range of sound at lower volumes. When I listen to these, my ears don't get all cloudy like they do from other headphones that are permanetely damaging my ears. Good sound at safer volumes.And the price on these things--incredible for the quality.
5	1214870400	I read the reviews on this site and then went out and bought these to use with my ipod. I wanted something that covered my ears and blocked out some of the surrounding environmental noise. These do pretty well in that area. I found these headphones comfortable and the sound was very good for $20 dollar headphones.  The cord wasn't to long as I had feared and seems very robust which is nice when listening to an ipod.  I tend to step on the cord, yank it, drag it, silent karioke, jump rope, you know, it gets abused. Cord holds up well. These are a good replacement for ear buds if thats not your thing. Trust me, you could do much worse than these headphones for the price.
3	1213574400	I was actually under the impression that these were active noise cancelling headphones.  Please note that they are not.  I'm sure they would have cost a lot more if they were but one site (it may or may not have been Amazon) did claim that they are...  That was a disappointment because I want to use them while mowing my yard.All in all they are good headphones.  The bass sounds fantastic and when used with my guitar amp, they sound incredible.The reason for the not-so-perfect review is the heat.  The ear pieces are comfortable, plush leather but they make your ears too stinkin' hot.  It's summer time now and I can't stand to wear them any more than about 25 minutes -- otherwise it feels like they're contributing to heat stroke.  For what it's worth, I usually use ear buds so maybe this is how it is supposed to be with all over-the-ears but nevertheless, it has me looking for noise cancelling ear buds now...
5	1213315200	Great product for the price! Great use of 20 bucks, no need to spend 100's unless you are very serious.
4	1213056000	These headphones are an excellent price, and fit comfortably on me, i have a medium sized head,but i can understand how they might feel tight on larger heads. The sound is decent quality, but the bass makes the higher ranges sound muddy, bass reducing EQ setting are highly recommended. Overall a good product for the price.
5	1212710400	I have to give these head phones a five star rating, because I think they are better than most people have given them credit for. I bought these to temporarily replace a pair of Yamaha head phones that I bought about 20 years ago. They looked very similar to the Yamaha's and I liked the way the Yamaha's fit my head. The Yamaha's cost $100.00 these cost under $20. The Yamaha's of course have more detail and a larger sound stage, but I was surprised how well these Sony's sounded for the money. Also the build quality of these phones for under 20 bucks is very good. I guess a lot had changed in 20 years, but I'm amazed that these cans can sound as good as they do for under 20.
4	1212278400	Good deal, very cheap and work good, a little hard on your ears after a while, but I use them every day at work and it is fine.
4	1211846400	These are the best headphones for the price. The sound quality is excellent. They can be a little snug which can lead to snapping the plastic of the headband (your new best friend is duct tape) trying to create a little breathing room. But since these are a bit more fitted, they are not going to fall off, slide down or remove themselves from your head with even the most vigorous head-banging. I have a small head so I can wear them for several hours without a break comfortably.I've gone through several pairs because I continually roll over the extra-long cord with my office chair which eventually shorts out the signal. This time, I accidentally bent the connector to that it no longer seats properly in my computer audio port causing it to lose sound quality. That said, the wear and tear on these headphones is entirely my fault. I've been using these headphones exclusively since 2000.Highly recommended!
3	1211500800	The first thing I noticed is that they are very, very tight. I have a small head, but still they seem excessively tight. If you wear glasses, you might want to steer clear of these. I'm using these with my iPod, and without the EQ on, they sound incredibly muddy. The bass is okay, but they are completely lacking in the high end. They're very, very skewed towards the mid-range, so if you listen to any jazz or classical music, do NOT get these! They're probably pretty decent for pop, rap, and hip hop though.If you don't mind slightly larger cans but still want a low price, spring for theSennheiser HD 202  Headphones. They're much more comfortable and sound light years better than these. If you want portability (and don't mind open cans), I can't recommend theSennheiser PX 100 Collapsible Headphoneshighly enough. The difference between these and the PX100s is like the difference between listening to the radio and listening to a CD.
5	1210723200	I've always wanted a headphone to monitor my recordings and I like Sony trademark very much. I've been using this headphone for 2 weeks and I'm very satisfied with the quality of sound and its perfect fit on my head and ears. It's a very cheap and quality product. I recommend it to anyone who needs a headphone for monitoring your records or even to listen to music.
3	1210377600	These headphones are very loud.  They are great in that respect but I personally felt that they are too tight on the ears.  After about 30 minutes they start to hurt.
5	1209859200	My old-fashioned husband does not like the idea of ear-buds, and needed something for a 5-hour bus ride.  He likes these because they fit over his ears, rather than in or on them.  He likes the way they sound (and he is very picky in that category), and he says they are comfortable.  When he uses them, I cannot hear what he's listening to, so they are good for privacy (he keeps the volume high).
2	1209859200	Bought these to replace a pair of old Koss headphones that I use mainly for home recording.  These things may look similar, and fit well, but that's it; the only reason they're even getting two stars is that if you have enough time, you can probably find a setting on whatever EQ you're using that sounds passable, but for recording they are horrible.  Overall, a very muddy sound, seemingly centered on the upper end of the bass frequencies, and little to no treble at all.These really wreak havok with pretty much any genre of music you use them with; perhaps I have an overly sensitive ear as a musician, but I shouldn't have to eq twice (once while using these as a monitor and then once to correct for them during mixdown).  You get what you pay for where accurate sound reproduction is concerned.
5	1209081600	I've had these for over two years, exposing them to much abuse and they still work and look great. No complaints at all.
2	1208995200	For the money, the sound and comfort are fine.  If you are planning on buying these to listen to while sitting still on the couch at home, then go ahead, these are a good buy.  Just be aware that they cannot stand up to even the slightest everyday wear and tear otherwise.With some consistent use, it becomes obvious why these are so inexpensive. Within a few months of wearing these (probably every other day walking to and from work), they began to fall apart.  The weight of the heavy cord occasionally bouncing around is enough to start to pull out of the earpiece(and hence giving sound that cuts out whenever you turn your head a few degrees).  The only consolation is that the hinges for the earpieces are nearly worn out and will soon snap anyway.Be Warned!  If I would have reviewed these over the first week or month like a lot of people do, I would have been raving over how good these were for the money.The price seems good, but the amount of use you will get out of these per dollar is much less than almost any other headphones on the market.
4	1208908800	Love the quality of the sound I got with this speakers.I love to hear house music and the sound quality is more important to me then high pitch sound.I don't know the technical talk about the headphones but this pair is a good purchase for th money I payed.One thing, the earphone is a bit tight around your head. I had to break the headphones in. This is a minor thing I think.
5	1208736000	These work very good for me. I'm not an expert on hi-fi, but the sound seems very good. Some complained about these being too "tight". I did not experience that.
5	1208131200	I've bought a few pricey headphones in my day, but these little cheapies are really some of the best I've had. My wallet-busting Harmon Kardons fell apart after about a year, but these are still going strong. And besides, they look damn cool - just about the only studio style headphones you'd want to be seen walking around with.Great value, great sound. Highly recommended.
5	1207699200	These headphones are great for only $20!  The sound is fantastic and while they are not noise cancelling, since they fit your ears so well much of the outside noise is not heard.  I should note that as many others have said, they are very tight.  This actually works out well for me because my head is small and most of the time headphones don't fit me well at all.  These fit perfectly.  They did get a little more loose the more I wore them.  I wear them 3-5 hours a day and I don't have any problems with them becoming uncomfortable.  Save yourself a few dollars, or hundreds of dollars for that matter, and try these.  If they don't fit you right, you can always return them.
5	1207526400	These headphones are great. They give good, clear sound without having to turn the volumn up too loud. At the same time, you can hear enough of whatever else is going on around you to feel safe (as in walking, etc). I would highly recommend. Also very comfortable.
5	1207353600	Great Headphones using them w/ my Mac & editing my songs I compose using Garageband loops
5	1206748800	I bought these headphones so I can listen to CDs on my computer at work, and I think they are great so far.  No hair pulling, the longish cord lets me move around much of my cubicle without getting yanked out, and the noise around me is much muffled, enabling me to concentrate better. I love them!
5	1205971200	I'm by no means an audiophile, but I must say, these are an amazing set of headphones.  I received them as a Christmas gift 3 years ago and they are still going strong.  I've never had a problem with them to this day.  A dog has tried to eat them, and they've been dropped countless times.  I recommend these to anyone who is looking for a VERY good set of headphones but doesn't feel like spending upwards of $80 on the high-end "better" headphones.As someone mentioned in their review, they do catch your hair at times, but all you have to do is take them off a bit more carefully to fix that problem :)
2	1205798400	I was really let down by this set of headphones.  The sound quality was boomy at the low end and muddy at the higher freqencies. On top of this, this is probably the most uncomfortable headphones I've ever owned.  Spend a little more, I think you'll be glad you did.
1	1205280000	Good sound and you can't beat the price but They are so darnes tight on your ears that it becomes torture after a half hour. The cord is about three feet too long for iPod use. For the money they will work as long as your hat size is small or extra small.
4	1205020800	I bought these because I wanted some headphones for my Ipod that could handle at least some bass. Although I prefer plug type earphones but they suck at delivering any bass, so I chose these. I must say I was impressed right of the bat the sound is great and not much distortion at normal volume , but raise high and you can hear it get muddy, especially with hip hop beats. Overall a good set of headphones,not very comfortable after an hour of use-- but maybe that just cuz I have a big head.
5	1203379200	I can't stand the earbuds that came with my iPod, I picked these headphones up after a friend in radio recommended them to me. So far they have provided me with over 4 years of solid service. I use them with my notebook or iPod nearly daily. I have noticed subtleties in some of my favorite songs I never had before (one time I took them off thinking someone was at my door but it was a drumbeat in the song). The super long cord is very convenient, I like to listen to music while ice skating and the long cord allows for a lot of freedom of movement. Comfortable, durable and very functional, these are really a great deal.
5	1203292800	Sony MDR-V150 Monitor Series Headphones with Reversible EarcupsFor a low price, it's possible to receive high quality and excellent sound with this set. An added bonus is the extra long cord. This is handy if you're using a keyboard and don't want the cord hanging over the keys.
4	1202947200	It has great bass and the sound quality is great. However, the cord is very thick and long
5	1202947200	these are great headphones. super price and I got them right away as promised. i am very happy with the headphones
4	1202515200	These headphones are very cheap, however they sound decent certainly better than headphones you get with the ipod.  They may hurt your ears after an 30 min or a hour of listening but that goes away pretty quickly.
5	1202428800	This headphone has comfortable ear cups and unique in their sound quality and reproduction.good value for money.
5	1201046400	I was totally taken aback with the excellent quality that these headphones produce - I use them instead of my computer speakers. They are excellent.
2	1200441600	I bought these to listen to my new Sansa Clip and, yes, they sounded pretty decent, quite bassy and laid back but after listening to them for only a few minutes, I noticed my ears started ringing. These things are too tight and press the music into your ear canals and may be some of the worst headphones you can use when it comes to your precious hearing. I'm taking mine back tomorrow.
5	1200355200	These headphones work great!  And I cannot believe how low the price was for a brand-name item of such quality.  Sometimes I guess you do get more than what you pay for.  This is one of those times I lucked out.  This headphone set-up more than met our expectations.  Don't hesitate to buy it.
5	1200355200	These are probably the best headphones I've ever had, and I'll tell you why:1. Durable - I've broken dozens of headphones over these years but these have yet to succumb to the ravages of time, and they've been through some rough spots with me:  dropped on the ground, pounded as I throw my bookbag around, and used quite a bit.2. Really Long Cord (tm).3. Sound Quality - I'm no snotty audiophile, but these 'phones give a nice warm sound and provide decent thump.4. Comfortable - snug is GOOD when it comes to headphones and these stay on pretty well.  The earpieces are padded and don't hurt the ears.5. Price - they're only 20 dollars, so it's not like it's a big risk here, people!
5	1200268800	These headphones are very good for the money, but lack the depth of more expensive models.  However, they can't be beat for walking around or listening to music on the El/subway.  Overall, very good for the money.
5	1200096000	I bought a pair of these more than 5 years ago and they have been worth every cent I paid.  Every once in a while a company comes out with a product that has a long selling life and is not only high quality but durable; Sony has done it with these headphones.
5	1199836800	Great sound quality. That wasn't what scared me, I knew these would be good in that respect. I wanted to have a pair of head phones that were comfortable, so I could wear them for a long period of time. I just got them today, and have been wearing them for about an hour listening toDeadwingby Porcupine Tree, and so far they have been awesome.  I have no discomfort, in fact before thinking I should write this review, i forgot I had them on. I've tried on thebeyerdynamic DT 880 Premium Headphonesand if you have the money, go for those, but for those looking to pay a reasonable amount, these are the best you can get for the price in my opinion.
2	1199318400	Well, I have to admit, I am a total audiophile. I own many very high end headphones that are the 'true' studio models (Beyer Dynamic, Senneheiser, AKG, the high end Sony's etc) and I have to say, these headphones, compared to others in the $20-30 range, aren't very good. They have great bass; especially for the size. But the problem is the treble is downright terrible. It literally sounds like I have pillows between my ears and these things. Not to mention, they are terribly uncomfortable to wear. I recommend staying with the sony walkman style headphones, as they have better overall clarity..I really like the neckband ones, they are great. As for the mid-high end headphones, if you really want good sound for a not-too-expensive price, check out the Sony 7506...those are really the true 'standard' in the music industry, and they have proven themselves to me. I have a few pairs. They have a great flat response, are comfortable, and most importantly to many, sturdy as hell
4	1198713600	The headphones have a wonderful sound. They are relatively comfortable but they become slightly painful after wearing for a while.But most importantly, I watching Reelz Channel and I saw Spike Lee wearing a pair of very similar Sony headphones.
5	1198713600	Throughout my many electronics purchases, I've been through many sets of headphones. From cheapo iPod earbuds to expensive around-the-ear studio headphones, you name it, I've used almost everything. So I think I can safely say that this is one of the best sets of headphones I've ever used, in any price category. Add to that the fact that you can find these anywhere for less than $20, and you can see that this is a great value, too.The construction of the headphones is the first thing that suggests it is worth more than $20. The whole package feels sturdy; the cord isn't flimsy and the headset is solid. Whatever the earcups are made out of, it sure is comfortable. It is a soft material that doesn't put too much pressure on any part of your ear, giving you no fatigue even after hours of listening. This brings me to another point; comfort. The way the headset is designed, you hardly feel the weight of the headset, which isn't too much to begin with. It really is a good design all around.Finally, the sound is great on these headphones. I'm not an audiophile by any means, but I can recognize that this headset delivers crisp sound in every frequency and enough base to make you forget you're listening to headphones. This set delivers some of the best sound I've heard on headphones, ever, and thats saying a lot.All things considered, I recommend this to anyone who wants a good sound experience from a set of headphones. This is one of the few products that I cannot find a fault with, and I recommend it to anyone on any budget.
5	1198022400	I'm gonna make this brief: I would gladly pay up to 4 times what I paid for these headphones. Great quality, incredible durability, and I did a doubletake when I read the price on the till at my local shop. Highly recommended; these have replaced my $150 studio headphones which have sadly not aged well.
4	1197849600	I actually have two pairs. One pair that I've had for over a year, and one that I bought recently. I'm no audiophile, but I can hear clear sound through them. They are comfortable for me, and they work.
5	1197590400	I've been through many pairs of headphones over the years and it's a pleasure to know that Sony is still making a quality product! These are my all-time favorite and well worth the price (Don't tell the sellers that!)The sound is great. You get the full audio spectrum from the highs to the lows, and the midrange too. Doesn't matter what kind of music or audio book you listen too. They all will sound great and your audio book will have a happy ending! (Okay well I can't guarantee that last part).Comfort is great. They fit snugly, won't fall off, and will block out other noises. They'll plug into any Walkman, iPod, MP3 or CD player, computer, or home stereo system. Get these while you still can! They're Very nice. You'll thank me.
5	1195603200	I am well satisfied. The volume is good, and, if you like bass, it enhances the music. Considering the price, it's a great buy. I have to admit the ear pads are a little small, but it's still a comfortable fit. Since the headphone fits tightly on my head, I can tune everything out, and hear what I'm listening to without disturbance.
5	1195084800	I spend much of my time on the computer, and I spend much of that time listening to music. I've probably spent an average of 4-5 hours daily listening to music with these things for the past 3 years.If the current pair I'm using right now broke, I would take out the spare pair I have in a desk, and then purchase another pair the same day.I am not really an audiophile.If I were given the option to blindly choose between these headphones and some nice, over-the-ear, true noise canceling ones, I would probably end up picking the noise canceling ones.That said, I strongly doubt that I will be getting anything else anytime soon. For their price, they are magnificent. Yes, they are poor quality compared to some other options, but for $15, they can't be beat.
3	1194825600	Sony headset is good in sound quality, just a bit tight on the ears after prolonged use.
3	1193961600	These headphones are a good deal for the money: fairly comfortable on the head, decent sound quality. One aspect that made them bad for me is a weakness in their manufacture. The repeated stress of bending them on and off over time will cause them to develop small cracks along the sides, up near where the headphones fit into the headband. This is almost impossible to fix, and would have been resolved by an additional 1 cent of plastic in their manufacture.
5	1193788800	I just wanted to listen to sound on my computer without disrupting my roommate. These headphones do the job just fine. I'm no headphone expert, so I can't say how good they are in comparison to other brands, but they work well and they're pretty good quality.
5	1193356800	just received this product and I'm loving it.  I have had no problem does just what it says it will do.  Music quality is nice and crisp I can really hear all the notes.  Music does not have to be turn up to higher volume I agree with other writer these are just as good or better than some of the higher end headphone I purchased 2 pair just on the write up of the other customers and I'm very glad I did.  Nice work Sony
5	1192752000	I bought these and thought for the price(20 bucks at Meijer) they would end up being crap, but NO! They are way better quality than you might expect. The sound is great! No complaints here!!
4	1192147200	the phones are fine for the moneyjust wish the  cord was a bit longerI have some dammaged hearing so buying high priced head phones would be a waste of money these work excellent
4	1192060800	I got these to use with my electronic drum kit, desiring something a little more substantial than some throwaway lightweight cans, and certainly something better than the dreadful Labtec phones I ignorantly used for years.  These headphones are cheap, yes, but beside being quite adequate for a drum synthesizer, are actually pretty nice music phones for so cheap.  Bass is heavy, therefore you will not dig them a whole lot for classical music, especially if you are accustomed to Grado and the like, but they do the trick.  It seems to be getting more and more difficult to get really crappy headphones nowadays.
5	1191974400	Not much to say for these headphones:Amazing soundAwesomely long cord lengthVery worthwhileA great (yet a bit tight) fit
4	1191801600	I've had these for a couple of weeks now, and while I agree with those who find the fit a little snug, it's certainly not a deal-breaker. Given the under $20 price point, I think they're very good indeed. The overall sound is quite good, though, yes, you'll probably want to back down on the bass settings a bit. For a portable player or computer, they're perfect.
3	1190419200	I have to say that these headphones are built to be very tight around your head.  That being said, it is not extremely uncomfortable because the ear cushion is thick and soft. It does not cover your entire ear so I had to get used to the cushion just pressing against my ear.  For the price you pay for these headphones, you really get a pretty decent quailty of sound.  I'm not a sound guru, but I can honestly say these do not have tin sound nor do they have ridiculous fake bass output.  Although, I could use just a bit more bass from this headphone (I'm a fan for heavy bass).  The cord is about 6 feet in length and it is very thick.  If the cord was thinner and shorter, I would say these could be used conveniently for a workout.  It works for me while I'm listening to music at work and I might try to take this when I go jogging, but the cord is really pretty thick so it might get in the way while I'm in motion.  After I have worn this for a while I believe that I can wear this for several hours (at work) without feeling any uncomfortness.  If you want, you can even set to just have one ear listening to the music and the other ear open when you have to talk to your coworkers, the head piece is snug enough that it will hold on easily.  This headphone is not for high performance, but it is definitely gear highly for convenience in a general environment.  :-)
5	1190246400	I am really satisfied of the fine quality and price of these headphones! Great value!
1	1187481600	As a preface, let me say that my first headphones was the Philips HL150 that I bought from some store I can't even remember anymore. Being my first headphones, I had nothing to compare them to, and had thought they were great.Now then, as for the Sony MDR-V150. I had bought this monstrosity at a K-Mart for $20. I can safely say that my money would have been better spent if I had paid a hobo to drill into my teeth with a sharp rock. I'm not an audiophile myself, but I often hear audiophiles say that this particular headphone (MDR-V150) was worth less than dirt. Of course, I didn't pay them any mind because audiophiles often seem to hear things no one else hears, and they often judge consumer-level headphones unrealistically harsh. However, for this case, they are 100% correct.To start off, I want to go on a massive tangent about how this headphones has the worst sound I ever heard in my entire life. It doesn't matter how you usually listen to audio, whether it be through your desktop speakers, laptop speakers, or that $5 radio you found in the trash with a half-broken headphone, the MDR-V150 is worse than it. What is the problem? One word: bass.I have never heard such muddled bass in my entire life. I have listen to several genres of music (Classical, rock, metal, country, etc) with this headphone and there wasn't a single song I listened to which wasn't worst off because of it. In every single song, the bass was such prevalent force that everything else is drowned out. In some cases, you can't even hear the other instruments while, in almost all cases, the vocals are completely drowned out.Using Winamp, I was forced to literally turned all the settings for bass down while all the settings for treble up. ONLY then was I finally able to hear the vocals, but of course, the sound was still horrible.Now, one would think that such a headphone would be good for rap music or any other form of music dependent on bass. Not the case. As a matter of fact, it's even worse! Due to the prevalence of bass already in these genres of music, the muddled bass that the MDR-V150 does just makes it that much worse. In one of the rap songs I listened to, I actually couldn't hear anything other than bass and a quiet voice trying to break through to me.Now then, as if the sound wasn't bad enough by itself, there's the issue of how tight this thing is. I can't stress this enough; this bad boy (and I do mean bad) is TIGHT! Not only am I unable to listen to music for more than 30 minutes, but once I take off the headphones, I discover red marks around my ears. This is made all that much worse due to the fact that I wear glasses.Of course, this could have been circumvented if the headphones had simply been made to cover your ears rather than, oh say, press against it like a vice grip. However, that would have taken at least elementary testing of this device to discover, which Sony obviously did not do as proven by the fact that this thing is on the market at all.After about a week of painful ears and muddled bass, I finally couldn't take the torture anymore, and threw the headphones on my couch. Later on, I bought a Coby CV320 for $20; It was a far superior purchase. As for the Sony MDR-V150? My nephew eventually asked for it and I gave it to him. I regret it now and wished I hadn't. My poor nephew doesn't deserve such punishment. Luckily, he lost it. And may the thing burn in hell!
5	1187136000	Unlike other headphones of this type, this is one that doesn't squish my ears. I've owned about four other pairs of headphones like this one that feature cushions around the speakers and within minutes of wearing them, my ears hurt and it wasn't from the sound.. These head phones don't do that.Also, if you're gonna be doing something like connecting them to a computer or a keyboard, the long cord works great. The long cord isn't so great for if you want to connect the headphones to the ipod in your pocket.I like to the use these on my computer and on my keyboard and the nicest thing is, I can. The large jack adapter will fit into, dare I say, all keyboards, control stations, and electric pianos and it can be painlessly removed to be just as painlessly plugged into an mp3 player or computer.
4	1187049600	Before reluctantly buying these headphones so as to not wake up my roommate during late-night frag sessions, I had always used my built in laptop speakers. Wow what a difference! These headphones really hit the bass but don't do too well on the high notes. You can also bring them pretty darn loud (loud enough that I've never had the nerve to put them on at max). However I like to absently chew on the headphone cable while I work and I damaged the wires.. they were unfixable.
5	1186790400	nice sound i use it for my zune mp3 player i get the sound i want and i got it for the best price i could find on line
2	1186272000	I bought 4 sets of these as a cheap way for musicians to monitor themselves while recording in my home studio. The sound isn't great, but good for the price. They are built TERRIBLY - very fragile and uncomfortable! All of them were broken in about a month. They have small plastic pieces to hold the cups in place which snap under normal wear-and-tear. I tried to fix them, but couldn't get them to fit right for more than an hour. Now I have to buy a new group of headphones - and it's not going to be these.
4	1185926400	estos son el segundo par que compro. responden muy bien al sonido, buenos bajos. Lo &uacute;nico que puedo decir es que tienen los soportes en el cintillo un poco delicado. Mientras los trates bien, tendr&aacute;s audifonos para rato.
2	1185667200	I always wanted to like these headphones, but they just hurt my head and ears too much. I have a pair of Koss Porta Pros that I love, but they don't seal out any outside noise. I am still searching for a pair of over-the-ear phones that are comfortable and don't cost and arm and a leg (like the Bose TriPort, the most comfortable headphone I have ever seen).
4	1185408000	It has way more bass and sounds warmer than other headphones I have, since I need a more true-sound headphone for recording & editing purposes.  But for other purposes, it may be perfect.
4	1182470400	I do believe that these headphones offer a good sound quality to them. I usually mow the lawn everytime with these because they offer good sound quality even against the sound of the mower.As for the people that give these headphones one star and two star. That's their opinion.All i can really say is that only you can be the judge to headphones and whatnot. Because reading the reviews for other headphones, you find the same issues said by different people. So you be the judge. Don't let someone else turn you away from headphones that might be what you're looking for. They're definitely an excellent pair of headphones.
5	1181606400	These are much better than those tiny ear plugs because you feel your ears in a much more comfortable listening position.  They are huge so it looks corny, and the plug is a bit too long when jogging.  I still give it five stars because it does the job I want it to.
4	1181433600	I like these headphones, they are a big improvement over the one's that I had been using to listen to audio from computer, which were the little cheap one's that come with portable CD players. They are quite effective at blocking background noise, also. I also find them to be quite comfortable on my big head, so all in all I give them four stars, because they are an excellent value, but the sound quality just isn't up to par with the higher end models.
2	1181347200	These headphones are reasonably comfortable, though if you wear eyeglasses you might find them pressing your glasses against the side of your head in an eventually painful way.The sound quality is mediocre.  Music seems too dead, lacking vibrance.  Even Sony's basic $10 comes-with-the-walkman headphones sound better than these.Overall, these are probably fine for background music whilst working, but if you want to really listen and pay attention to the music, try something else.
5	1180915200	I bought this set of stereo phones to replace a set of 10 year old Aiwa phones that finally just fell apart. I use stereo phones to listen to music coming out of a stereo receiver (in other words, no Ipod, laptop, PC, game console, you get the idea).  When I got these, I put my pristine vinyl copy The Beatles Revolver on my turntable and plugged them in.  Really great sound, especially when linsteing to a music format that has no tape hiss.  I was able to really crank the volume without any distortion. For the price they're terrific.  The only problem that I have with them is that (for me) the ear cups are too SMALL.  My old Aiwa phones enclosed my entire ear, these sit on top of the ear. Why did I give these a 5 star rating?  Well, I knew the ear cups were smaller when I bought them. I didn't think the difference in size would be that big of a deal, but I found out otherwise. Either way, its not a fault of the product.  Overall, the sound and the price are great!
5	1179532800	Very good headphones, This is not a travel headphones, it's more for home, Tha sound it's clear and comffortable to use it, but i don't use it for more than a 20 or 30 minutes. So i don't know if are comffostable in last periods of time
4	1179446400	Well done product, helps me enjoy more my time at work. Definitelly, I recommend it!Good sound, just one disadventage which I cannot really understand. Headphones are marked as usual Left & Right earcup.. however if I put them on as they are marked they do not twist as they should with the shape of ears... so I wear them other way Right-Left... this way they fit ears really nice.BTW. I am engineer to, so really cannot understand Sony engineers idealogy behind those headphones :| Quite confusing.
4	1178841600	I read the reviews for these headphones, entirely expecting that when I got them, they'd be too tight and uncomfortable to wear - and they were FINE. I'm not sure why there are so many reviews claiming that these headphones are incredibly tight and that they have to be removed after a certain period of time to prevent discomfort - and I never found this to be the case. They fit perfectly, if not slightly loose. I guess that it simply depends on the size of your head, haha.
3	1178668800	why did the price go up so much in 2012sound is good but for commercial purposes they break a lot
5	1178582400	These are the best headphones I've used.  I recently bought my 3rd pair (for home, work, my mom).  The sound quality is great, and I still use the MDR-V150 headphones I bought over a year ago.  You can't beat the value for the price on these.  Highly recommended for casual computer/laptop use.
4	1178496000	I enjoy my new sony headphones. they come in handy for long flights and rides. the sound quality is good but not superior as with the sony fontopia set. for the value, its a good buy.
1	1176681600	la verdad ami no me gustaron estos audifonos. son mejores los sennheiser.la voz no esta tan clarita conparados con los sennheiser.
4	1176249600	These are easily adjustable and the reversible earcups work fine.  For the money, they aren't a bad set of headphones.  They fit a little tight, so take care if that bugs you.
5	1175644800	I am really enjoy my headphones, as you well know Sony products are top of the line. I also would like to commend amazon for outstanding service I received my product in a timely manner, with everything in tact. Again Thank You!
4	1175385600	I'm a radio announcer and have used this model for years at work (provided by employer.) Finally decided to buy a pair for myself, since the ones at work are ancient and held together with electrical tape.Although the model number is the same, I do see a design difference between the old "work-provided" ones (probably more than 5 years old) and the ones I just received. The new ones do seem to be SLIGHTLY tighter than the old ones (a lot of the reviews here seem to complain about tightness, so maybe I was particularly attuned to the issue as a result.) And, like most folks in radio, I have a pretty big head...The tighter fit may be due to a redesign of the headband where it meets the earcups (there used to be a separate section of plastic where the headband hits the earcups and now it's a solid piece) -- but this is GOOD news, since this is where the old ones ALWAYS broke.So, I'd willingly put up with a little tigher fit for not having to use electrical tape to hold my earcup onto the band.Also, I've been wearing the new headphones for six hours straight every day for the last week, and they seem to have loosened up and the fit is quite comfortable.  The earcups themselves are nice and cushy.And the price is right.Oh, and the sound is fine too...
5	1175126400	I needed a pair of headphones for work. Didn't want the hassle of battery powered noise cancelling headphones so I took a look at these. They're quite comfortable and sound great.They do a decent job of shutting out most outside noise. The cord is substantial in a good way, doesn't get in the way at all. The long length is a huge plus (2 meters!).I'm not sure you can get a better set for less than $20. They're worth every penny!
5	1174348800	These headphones have great sound for under $20.00. Im very glad I bought these. They seem durable and well made as well. I would definitely recommend these to anyone looking for headphones.
2	1173571200	I had problems with one of these units (left ear piece stopped working after a mere 15 minutes of use), but ultimately got a replacement and bought and additional one and both are fine. The ear pads are exceptionally comfortable, but the head piece is poorly designed and digs into your head above your ears. As for audio quality, well, you get what you pay for, but it's not too bad. Not audiophile, but great for use on a computer.
4	1173312000	I basically like them. The sound quality is high compared to all my previous headphones.
5	1173312000	I wanted headphones with a substantial connecting cord of a decent length. These headphones fill that bill easily. The cord is over 6 feet in length has a connector that will mesh with a devices from audio equipment to IPods with the micro-plug. I liked the versatility.For audiophiles, the sound is rich in bass and has crisp tones. The ear cups cover the ear blocking any outside sounds from intruding into your music or audiobook.The price is right for a real bargain in headphones.
4	1172102400	Technically, this is just a replacement (I hope) to the one I already have, but I've been very impressed with them.  They've held up to a decade of abuse and still work pretty decently.  The only thing I caution is don't let the cords around the earbuds and the cord leading to the 2.5/3.5mm jack get tangled or curled.  It's a pain in the rear to try to straighten them out.  This is why I am buying a replacement.  However, all in all they are still worth the money paid.Though, if you're like me, you're probably gonna want to go with "cordless" at some point, but these are good for keeping outside noise out while you listen and drift away with the music.  :)
5	1170979200	It seems from a lot of the reviews on here, that people don't quite understand the specs behind headphones which are crucial to its sound. A lot of people are comparing these headphones to iPod earbuds and saying that it sounds like something is missing. Here's why:The technical specs for iPod earbuds:Bandwidth response-20Hz to 20,000HzImpedance-32ohmsThe technical specs for MDR-V150s:Bandwidth response-18Hz to 22000HzImpedance-24ohmsFor those of you who don't understand the numbers, it means that the MDR-V150s have a broader range of sound, but the iPod earbuds pack a bigger sound. This is precisely why you think something is missing.If you listen to iPod earbuds over a long time, your ears become accustomed to really loud, albeit a small range, sound. This is also why iPod earbuds are known for causing serious harm to your ears over prolonged periods of use. For it to sound right, you have to use the full amount of power, which the earbuds provide. Your close-range hearing becomes damaged over time and you can't hear subtle sounds or details, but you can still detect low volume. The earbuds won't sound deafening because you can still hear outside noise.The MDR-V150s have a larger range of sound and lower impedance. That means there is a much richer sound. You don't need to jack up the volume to get a good listen (but you do need your hearing intact). You also may not be used to the larger range of sound so the range of sound you're used to will sound drowned out at close range. Many of the comments complaining about this transition from earbuds are noting that staples of their music listening sound strangely undetailed on the MDR-V150s. High levels of bass have a way of "drowning" out treble sounds if you're not used to listening to music with ample bass at close range.Another major difference is that since these are "on-ear" headphones instead of "in-ear" buds, you have much less outside noise interfering with listening. It's like the difference between listening to a car stereo with the windows up or the windows down. You have to listen to things louder if there's more outside noise and you can't notice as many details either. There is a reason cellphone handsets for the car use earbuds instead of headphones, and that's so you can still hear the road. Why would you want to use earbuds that are intentionally designed so you can still hear your surroundings but compensate for it by deafening you?I work a lot with sound whether it's production, music, or art and I use these as portable stereo phones because of their quality and sound range. I use them with my iPod with the long cord tucked into my case's belt clip. They are incredibly affordable for their quality. Most comparable headphones cost at least $30. I have been using these headphones since freshman year of college when I was first exposed to them in my school's sound lab.My opinion aside, the manufacturer specs speak for themselves and it's hard to imagine that iPod earbud fans really believe that these provide less sound when physically they have a much broader range of sound and do not permanently damage your ears.As for the tightness, it's good. It'll keep the phones pressed against your ears. The padding coupled with the tightness is what keeps as much outside noise sealed out. The more noise cancellation you can get, the better the sound.And for the hair complaint: you could always tie up your hair or give up on headphones with plastic size adjusters. The plastic size adjusters were just designed to snag hair, so it seems.
4	1170374400	These headphones are very good for the price you pay for them.  I'm a very loud listener, I've had a pair for around 2.5 years, and they still sound like when I bought them.  The long chord is great for computer listening, but can be cumbersome with portable devices.  One of the few problems I have with these phones is that they do feel tight after a long listening session, but after leaving them on a stack of books for a couple of days it's gotten much better.  Overall, a very good product from my experiences.
3	1170028800	Just what i expected delivery was excellant arrived before i thought it would fast service great product def would do it again
1	1169164800	I bought these manily becasue they were cheap and i at the time have gotten so sick of ear buds. They worked ok for two weeks then all of a sudden there was no sound coming from the right side. Another thing that is a big negative is that they are so dam big and ugly. If you go out in public with these you look like a out of date dork. Sony has gotten down hill lately with these breaking and a portable cd player i had that broke down in a couple of months. I remeber when sony used to make the best electronics. They were the ones that invented the walkman. There walkmans from the 90s and before were so great i still have one that i got 10 years ago.
5	1169164800	I liked my pair so much that I bought this pair as gift for my brother
5	1168300800	I used these headphones on an airplane and they were excellent!  Very reasonably priced and great quality.
5	1168300800	I was very pleased with the sound quality of the headphones considering the price I paid for them.
5	1168300800	I've had three pairs and I've been satisfied with all of them. If my cat didn't find the cord so tasty, I'd still be using the first pair. I like the extra long cord and the fact that it's thicker than most. I find the earcups very comfortable and have travelled with these a few times - the size is good and their rugged enough to withstand some tossing around in your briefcase. Gaming, movies, music - they work well for all the above. I think it's the quality build and sound for the $$ that I'm most impressed with. These really should be $25-$30 at least. I would/will buy these again. For $15 (or even $25) you can't beat these.
5	1168300800	We check these MDR-V150 headphones out to students using a computer lab.  They are small, effective, and attractive.  We could get higher quality phones, but no one wants to wear big clunky headphones in a lab.  Besides, they would probably get stolen.  These are good quality headphones that work well, look good, and are inexpensive to replace.
5	1168041600	I'm impressed with these headphones, especially for the price. I like the lightweight, comfortable design. The bass response is great. so is the sound. The only thing I don't like is the long cord, but at least it's durable. I plug it in my ipod and listen for hours without any discomfort.
5	1167955200	I got these about 3 years ago and they still sound and feel fantastic. I don't think they'd ever blow out; I usually have them blasting since I use them while skateboarding. I have long hair and with some other headphones I had problems with hair being pulled out but not with these. Also, I have never really had a problem with the thickness of the cord. I actually like it because it is easier to untangle, but it is a little too long. I usually stuff my pocket with the cord so it stays out of my way.The only problem, which isn't too bad, is that when wearing them for long periods of time like traveling my ears become sore and I have to take a short break. They may be too tight, but it sure doesn't feel like it until you have been wearing them for a few hours.I always suggest these headphones to people. I got them in a store for $20 and they have better sound than some much more expensive headphones I've tried.
2	1167782400	I got these with the intent on placing a pair of Koss KSC75 drivers in them because my wife does not like clip-on headphones (KSC75's are clip-ons) I figured before I took the Sony drivers out I would give them a listen and I wish I never had!  the sound is rather flat and boring to listen to.  Bass and mids are terribly muddy and offer no dynamics at all.  The trebel is harsh and slighly rolled off.In my opinion unless you want to use the headband for a project these are not worth what it cost to package them up.
5	1167436800	After looking at many headphones I decided on these and I don't think I could have picked a better choice.  They are very comfortable; don't picnk my ears, squeeze my head, etc.  And I will wera them all day without discomfort.  The sound quality is also great.  My husband thought it would be better to wait and save up for more expensive headphones until he tries these on.  He was really impressed.  I think for anyone they are worth a try.  You can always return them.
5	1165881600	I'm not a connoisseur of headphones, and quite honestly I don't think I've even paid much more than $20 for a pair of headphones.  And maybe because of this, I've never owned a set of headphones that I was totally happy with until now.  These are by far the best headphones I've even bought, and I was just floored by how good some of my favorites sound on these headphones.  I just hear so much more.I hesitated to buy these since so many people on Amazon complained about the feel of these headphones saying they pinched.  Well, they are bigger than what I'm used to - a little bulky maybe - but I found them really pretty comfortable.  Also, because they fit a little tighter, they seem to block out a lot more noise, which make them great for the gym or walking down a busy street.
2	1165190400	I brought this item to listen to the radio and CDs at work. It sounds great at times. Sometimes though, I hear a'sizzle' sound from the left ear piece. This "sizzle" noise comes and goes....seems most apparent when listening to songs with loud bass. I was listening to Elvis when the "sizzle" became unbearable. In my anger I cranked the volume to the max, which made the "sizzle" sound go away and now it seems to sound ok again. Strange, very strange.
4	1165017600	These headphones are not bad. I loved them at first but then I realized that you can't wear these headphones with glasses because it will start pinching your head until it gives you a headache. So now everytime I use these headphones I just take off my glasses. Overall I think its neat and there isnt a large amount of sound leak. there is one thing that I dislike about this headphone is that if you wear them for too long it will hurt your ears. I dont know why that happens but it just does. But I still use them because I love the sound that comes out of it. I never had headphones like these and I'm very pleased with Sony now. I wish I had an answer for why my ears hurt. That is why I'm giving it 4 stars instead of 5.
3	1164672000	New lower price. These headphones look nice and durable, but have some flaws. The pads are not very cushy and do hurt your ears after using a while, earrings or not. Sony has been selling this model (or very similar type) for over 12-14 years and I do remember the sound quality being better in previous years. I have bought a pair about every 3-4 years. The headphones I would recommend that remind me the most of Sony's quality of the past is the Sennheiser HD 202 Headphones. I bought these for Sony's old price (around 20.00) and the sound is like I remember from the quality Sony used to produce. Not sure what's happening to Sony, but I hope they turn around their quality before they lose all their customers.
4	1163548800	I owned this headphones and listened to music on them every day for about a year and a half (at work) and they are good. They do get uncomfortable after while, i've had to take em off at intervals to give my ears a rest cause they would start hurting.I will say that if you are looking for the best value for your money I would recomend the Sennheiser HD201 instead, i bought them about six months ago for 20 dollars here in Amazon and havent ceased to be amazed at the quality of the sound and how comfortable they are. My Sony MDRs have been stuck in my desk drawer since then, and i am not going back.
4	1163289600	These were the pair that set me on my quest for the best sounding headphones I could find. I went from right from the case headphones to a pair of these headphones. At the time, 20 bucks was alot for a pair of headphones. To me they sounded much better. The hard foam pads did begin to hurt my ears after awhile, but I usually did not wear them for over an hour at a time. However, they broke (dropped my backpack in school) and soon I was given a pair of bose triports and left this duct taped relic behind. That was two years ago. Just for fun I decided to put these on again, and soon I began to understand what other people where talking about when they said that this pair is more natural than the bose, because they are. If super booming bass is for you, than pick the triports. They are comfortable.However, these do not sound better, just more natural. The triports do have better detail and clarity. Instead look for a pair of cheap Sennheisers or do some research.
4	1163030400	I recently purchased the Sony headphones and was expecting the same size earcups as my old Sony headphones.  They were much smaller, but they are comfortable unless you use them for hours and hours.  Also, they get in the way of earrings.  The sound is very good, though, so I will be using them.
3	1162857600	Did not use. Had received a smaller set as a gift. These were rather larg and bulky.
2	1160006400	In the end, if a pair of heaphones is uncomforable to wear like the Sony MDR-V150s are to me, the sound doesn't really matter.  The only reason I gave two stars is perhaps these do fit some people OK; but I could not wear these for over 15 - 20 minutes without discomfort.
4	1156982400	It is a very good Product at a very Good Price.  I didnt fint it tight as some other people said.
3	1156550400	They're good headphones... but not the best sound (especially highs).After a long period of time, the earcups fit unconfortable.
4	1155427200	I like wearing large size headphones whenever I listen to music. About 5 or 6 months ago, I bought these to replace my earbuds for my Ipod and my CD player, and they've been holding up. If you have a large head, the overhead band has nine different settings on both sides in order to adjust to your preference. The sound is pretty nice. I don't expect for it to be surround sound or anything like that, just some decent quality headphones. The earcups are reversable which is good if you're a DJ or if you're trying to hear something briefly with out going through putting the headphones on, you can just turn one of the earcups around and place it in one ear. Also there are adjustable plugs that they can plug into stereos or large sound systems.My only problems are the cord is long and easily can get tangled. To me, tangled cords are annoying. Also the cussions on the ears are limited which for some people my irritate them.Other than that the headphones are good, especially for the price that they're being sold for, which is not very common because headphones like this can be priced from $18 up to about $80, depending on the company that it is being sold for and the sound quality that is you expect from it. At first I bought these for my Ipod and CD player, but since I'm into music recording, I use the headphones for that also (laptop, vocal booth, etc.) and they work well for that also. Buy this and see what you think.
1	1154995200	I thought these headphones had adaptable miniplugs to attach to a SONY radio. I bought these for my uncle who is in a nursing home at the VA Medical Center in Philadelphia. They were not as pictured and of no use to us.
4	1153872000	If your main worry is money these headphones are a great buy. For 13 bucks there aren't any other heqadphones with similar sound quality. They may not be as comfortable but highly recommended for outdoor use. Noise blocking is fine and audio is good. However if you are going to use them in quieter environments I would most definitely go for the sennheiser px100's which are absolutely fantastic.
3	1153180800	I bought my set from Wal-Mart.  The sound is excellent with deep full bass and clear higher frequencies.  Much better sound than the foam ambient noise type. My main concern was that the headphones are TIGHT on the ears. The cups (as noted by other reviewers) do not cup the ears, but rather sit on and press directly against the ears. Great sound or not, after half and hour or so of listening I would actually have a headache from the ear pressure. I gave these away and found a set of headphones at Radio Shack that sounds just as good and has a large enough cup to totally enclose the ears. After 3 or 5 hours these are still comfortable.
4	1151884800	I must say,its one of the best headphones i've had for a long time given it's pricing.Has extremely clear highs and gud low bass.Though its only audio flaw is tht at xtremely high bass levels it slightly and i mean slightly begins to jarr, though not very conspicuously.I also have a plantronics Audio 90 stereo headset and in comparison to it i must say the plantronics is far better in audio performance.but the fact tht the plantronice audio 90 set has a 40mm driver in comparison to the sony's 30 mm driver shud be taken into consideration.The headphones fit snug to your ears and dont fall off when u bend ,use it for jogging or at gym.Overall great piece of headphones with xcellent styling.
1	1151712000	Going through a drawer full of stuff I never use looking for a whetstone, I pulled these out. I'd put them in there a long time ago because I couldn't stand the fit. I couldn't really remember the sound, and having upgraded my equipment significantly since then decided to regress a bit and see what they were like again.Really bad. The fit was still terrible. They aren't "over-ear" at all. They sit on top of the ear and press on it. Glasses make the problems much worse. And they have no sound. No bass, plus those annoying overtones that always show up in cheap headphones and make them sound muddy.I quickly took them off and put my Sennheiser HD 600s back on to sooth my brain. One of the best headphones ever made, and now suprisingly affordable due to the release of the slightly upgraded 650s. Oh, and they're beyond comfortable as well. Huge earpads that don't even touch the ear.
5	1151452800	I got this last November from wallmart..I am not the kind of person who handles  stuff delicately..I must have dropped this for like 10 times...but they still work..!!! I am in love with these awesome headphones and I carry this every where I go..I love them..I ordered two more pairs for my brother and as a gift to my frnd in India..!!  Yeah they might be tight in the beginning but I got used to that..
5	1151107200	Can't beat them for the price. I've had mine for several years, and while I don't abuse them, I'm not as careful as I could be either. I'm totally satisfied with the sound quality and the level of external noise blocking. Noise blocking is not complete, of course, but it's much better than other comparably-priced headphones I consider the long cord a plus, because I can plug these into my desk-top computer and still have some freedom of movement. One drawback, they do pinch against eye-glass ear-pieces, causing discomfort after a short time. This could be an issue if you regularly wear glasses in the situation where you will be using these  phones. By the way, I paid more than twice the Amazon price for mine locally, but again, that was several years ago.
4	1150243200	I bought these for my workplace computer and they're a fine match. The price is also very good here as I paid much more at a Big Box store (embarrassed to say how much more). They have a nice sturdy, long cable that is very helpful in connecting to the computer's cpu. Sound quality is also very good given the low-end price. It even comes with a nice pin adapter for large and small connectors.  All in all, very good for the money.Update 10-4-10: Still own these and the sound quality remains very good (pads still cushy) BUT about a year after owning them, the over-the-head piece cracked (twice) in the place where the bottom headphones slide up inside of the top piece. Now I have two pieces of tape holding together the top piece in the cracked areas. These headphones have only been used at work and I will say that I have dropped them mainly because the overly long cord gets caught in my office chair and rips them off my head occasionally. In retrospect, a shorter (or retractable) cord would have been preferable.
5	1150070400	These headphones produce excellent sound quality for the price. I was a little concerned about buying these headphones because of all the reviews that complained about them being too tight. However, for me they are a perfect fit, they don't hurt at all and I even have earrings. I used these headphones with my two keyboards,(Kurzweil K2661, and Yamaha P90), and I was amazed at the quality of the sound! These headphones definitely exceeded my expectations!
5	1149638400	I got it today...works excellent...I dont know somebody intentionaly rate it very low..as it has a dusty sound...I dont think...the fact is that the sound is excellent (definitely according to price $13). Overall-Good thing: Sound very good, extention cord is long and durable.Problem: Headphones are pretty tight, Littlebit unconfortable.
4	1149206400	I use these for monitoring live concert recording, and have for years.  First, I used these on a Sony Walkman Professional D6c cassette recorder, then on an Archos Jukebox Recorder, and now on a Minidisc recorder.. great at giving you a true representation of what is being recorded and blocking out external sounds that are not being picked up by the mics (i.e. the idiot yelling 'rock & roll' next to you).  These are not equivalent to the $500-$750 phones I used when doing recoding studio training, but for $20, they are a very worthwhile investment.  By needs are phones that are cheap, give a true representation, and these are PERFECT for that.  One great feature is the 'reversible ear cup' that lets you swivel the cup and listen without having to put on the full phones.
3	1147046400	I got these for use with my digital piano.  For my purposes, they sound pretty good.  The closed earcups are nice, and the sound quality is decent.  They have a good range that's a huge improvement over the tin can sound of my tiny portable phones.  Unfortunately, after a half hour or less of use, my ears hurt so much that I have to take them off.  Disappointed.
3	1145750400	Pros: They're $12 and they still work after a year or so of light use.Cons: They're uncomfortable (too tight), the cable makes a lot of noise (I believe one reviewer compared it to a stethoscope), and you can get much better sound for not much more money.
1	1145491200	Like another reviewer said, these are pathetic if the music has ANY bass to it.  A muddy, distorted sound is what you get when you listen to anything with any volume.These are going back to the store TOMORROW!
5	1143763200	Considering the kind of stuff you see in store aisles (nothing like a dedicated store in my town), these headphones stand out.  I'm in my second pair because my cat chewed the cables of the first, rendering them useless.  Even though I considered upgrading from these Sony 'phones, I chose to stick with them.  When I got my first ones, I lucked out; these pieces may not be like the Bose, but they're not too bad.  A bit high on treble, not quite generous with bass (and it's not good to overdo it), but in general terms, very adecuate for classical music.  And they're confortable too!  In other words, they're worth a try.  And, by the way, I got them for $22, so they're a steal here.
1	1143244800	-- I read some of these other reviews about the quality of sound and purchased these based on the reviews.  One review had the audacity to compare these headphones to the Bose Triport as being equivalent.  What a joke.  They are not even in the same class.  I use the Bose Triport now in an iPOD and they sound incredible.  THESE DO NOT.  DON'T BE FOOLED by the reviews that compliment the sound quality--it doesn't exist unless your hearing is sub-normal.-- The only decent thing about these headphones is the fit.  The sound is quite muffled.  The base booms and drowns out pretty much any clarity in the other ranges.-- I am ecclectic in my music taste from classical to hard and southern rock and was very DISAPPOINTED in the quality of sound across the board.  If you are interested in distinction in sounds, then you had better pass on these.  If you are a boomy bass lover and do not care about sound quality in the mid and high ranges, than these are what you are looking for.  I gave the pair to my son who loves good bass to use and he complained of the same problem, no sound definition.  Don't waste your money on these.
4	1143158400	Going to make this as brief and useful as possible :DThe plastic of the whole product is unfortunately cheaper than desired, and will not fare well in a loose bag during travel.The areas above the cups are an upside-down Y semi-encircling each cup, the stem leading upwards to the overhead cup connector. This area in particular must be thin for the reversible earcups, but the plastic here is at an odd angle and will not fare well in loose containers, as mentioned before.The end of my original set of these was, from my best guess, when these were located in a backpack compartment and an outside force shifted one of the cups out of alignment to the other, and the inverted Y over the cup snapped in two, surprisingly, instead of releasing so that the cup could just snap back on. The plastic is, quite simply, cheap. Sorry Sony.I use these specifically for listening to music on the computer, as they look rather goofy when taking a walk or while in the car, in my opinion.The wiring itself is superb, and rare is it that one will manage to accidentally deal enough damage to the wiring to fray it. The rubber coating protects very well from scratches, scrapes, bending, and stretching and if you use these for the computer the long cord is very useful as it will not catch around the corner of the computer desk as shorter-wire-length headphones or earbuds tend to do.I had occasional hair catches with these, and after a while you learn to take them off slowly. :D I found these to be pretty comfortable for the time they lasted, and after one adjusts these as best as they can, or becomes accustomed to it, I hardly noticed the phones were on and eventually preferred having these on to 'open ears'.The sound quality is alright, but in my opinion definitely much better than earbuds or in-ear phones.I would recommend these for low-movement home activity, preferably sitting.I would not recommend these for any high-movement activities. The long, thick cord and over-ear headphones were most likely not intended for the gym.I would not recommend these for travel; over-ear headphones are a little goofy looking but may be acceptable on planes, however watch out for the cheap plastic.I would not recommend these as a replacement to earbud headphones, and as a possible replacement to in-ear phones.
5	1142380800	This is a great pair of headphones for those taking trips. They block out the sound fairly well and are extremely comfortable. Definate good buy for a reasonable price.
5	1142035200	My son had recently purchased the same headphones locally for a much higher price. I did like them and the sound is great. I ordered them on a Friday and had them delivered on the following Wednesday. Good service as ususal.
5	1141862400	I purchased these headphones recently, and everything works as it should.  The product arrived on time, was in mint condition, and is working perfectly fine since.  I do like the extra long cord, saving me another purchase (extension cord).
3	1140825600	The quality of the sound is ok, but the wire is so big they seem to be more of a stethescope than headphones!
4	1138665600	These are some of the best headphones I have heard and are definetly the best for the money.  The mids and highs are good but the bass is a tiny bit lacking for some listening purposes.  The only other thing wrong is I have a fairly small head and they still get tight and consequently quite warm (earmuffs with audio). This is only a minor concern of mine and I am still very happy with these. (:-)
4	1137974400	Received these about a month ago and I have found them to be a very nice pair of headphones.Advantages- Overall nice sound- Very responsive bass (and luckily not overdone like other Sony models)- Long cord is great- Connector adapter was a great plusDisadvantages- fit is a bit tight (I don't find it to be as serious an issue as others)- The only thing missing is an inline volume controlLooks like I've found a headphone model that I can stick with for some time.
4	1137801600	Sound better than Bose TriPort (that has overemphasized bass). Sound better than my best Koss. Unfortunately: a) too tight. After half an hour I have just enough, b) the cord seems to be rated for 60 amperes, extremelly thick and stiff
5	1137110400	It has great sound for the Price. I also found it to be comfortable to wear and the long cord is very helpful as well.I've been using this already for over seven years and it still sounds great.
5	1137110400	For years I'd gone through headphones like a junkie goes through smack. I walk, and ride the train a lot so I constantly like to have the discman going... (I haven't caught on to that whole I-POD craze yet). Being the cheap bastard that I am, I would constantly replace the old crappy broken headphones with another pair of crappy headphones, soon to be broken. A vicious cycle, which introduced me to various breeds of phones, like those little I-podish ones that you stick inside the ear lobe.. What in the F*** is with those? JUNKANYWAY... One day a guy at an electronics store recommended these to me, and I was like Pppph, F off clown.. those are like twenty five bucks (they are significantly cheaper here). But something inside of me made me change my mind and I bought them anyway. Great choice, I've had 'em ever since.. and they ROCK! I haven't heard the music this vibrant and clear since the last time I took mushrooms, and they are extremely comfortable, unlike those little mothers in YOUR ears.So yeah, the phones are sweet. They even come with an adaptor so that you can plug them into a stereo receiver, or.. thats right, a monitor.Dig. The cord is pretty long though, so you may want to wrap it up with an elastic while traveling, I personally have tripped on it once or twice.
3	1136851200	Well, I've had them on for less than 15 minutes, and I fully agree with digikat that these headphones are way too tight. I don't have an overly large head or anything, but they are quite uncomfortable...especially with earrings on. I actually like the long cord, since I use them at my computer and don't like to be closely tethered to my speakers. The sound quality and bass response is pretty decent as well, given the price.Unfortunately, I'll be returning these, since I really need headphones that don't make my ears and head hurt after wearing them for an extended period of time...should've checked the Amazon reviews before buying these locally.
2	1136851200	After about 20 minutes they make your ears hurt They dont fit over your ears
1	1135555200	I purchased the $20 Sony MDR-V150 headphones to replace the earbuds from my Dell MP3 player. The Sony headphone sound was horrible.It was like listening to music with a trashcan over my head. I was beginning to think that my MP3 player was the reason for the poor sound. I just purchased the Koss PortaPro headphones from Amazon for $40. The sound is awesome. I put the Sony headphones where they belong, in the trashcan! Splurge and spend $40 for a great set of Koss Portapro headphones. Koss rules.
4	1135209600	Hey I am using this with my mini disk player and they work great. The cord is very durable, but quite long. Good for computer users but bad for personal music. You can take part of of and zip tie it up or tape it. No big deal. They feel quite sturdy even though they are completely plastic. All in all I am quite happy, For the price they can't be beat.
5	1134777600	I bought these headphones a little over a year ago from Best Buy for the slight sum of $20.00 and have used them near daily ever since, either on the computer or on my iPod. The sound quality is quite good given the price. The only thing they seem to be missing in my opinion is a bit more punch in the bass.As for the quality of the construction, they're suprisingly sturdy. They've been dropped from table height dozens of times and come through with hardly a scratch. They've even been mistaken for a stray mosquito and swatted violently to the wall which resulted in both earpieces flying out. To my pleasant suprise they snapped right back in the headpiece and work as if nothing happened. Occasionally, when I don't want to mess up my hair I'll detach them and listen to music by pressing them against my head a la DJ style. I'm not sure whether Sony intended this or not, but it's a neat little feature.They're also quite comfortable, and don't feel cheap and 'plasticky' like some other headphones have the habit of doing (even though technically they're made of plastic.) Even after wearing them for several hours with glasses on, I don't really notice them. This is quite an accomplishment coming from someone who's fitted cap size is a bit over 8.My only qualms are that the cord stems from both earpieces. I would have preferred it to come from only one. Even so, it doesn't bother me very much. Speaking of which, the cord is also very long, measuring in at about 3 feet. While this is fine at home, it's annoying on-the-go since the cord is pretty thick as well.Other than those small nuisances, this is a very solid product that's well worth your twenty bucks. If you're looking for a pair of headphones that are a step up from the two dollar ones you get on airlines but don't want to spend a fortune, then look no further.
3	1133136000	I have owned these headphones for a long time. But they do okonly if you doing brief mixes and for about 30 minutes.  After that you may need to take a break from the station or studio since your ears will hurt from the pressurized padding.
4	1133049600	I had these headphones for about a year and a half.  I used them heavily daily.  I kept them in a gear bag with other audio equipment and a laptop.  They were quite useful in the studio, they were comfortable, and they weren't very unweildy outside of the studio.I've used a very large number of mid-low-range headphones, and I find Sony's to be quite good for their price.  If you're a college student, or a someone who spends a large amount of time in their headphones, I do recomend these.  They may seem slightly uncomfortable at first, but the ear pads eventually mold to fit your ears better.A very nice pro: The wire.  It's a solid, thick wire with a nice rubber coating.  I chipped the rubber coating several times, and the wire never became exposed, nor did it cause any loss in sound quality.  This is a feature that really must be seen in more headphones.  The wire always seems to be the breaking point, and other headphones have really, really poor wires in terms of breaking.  (As mentioned by others, the wire is fairly long, and yes, it got caught in doors occasionally, however the length of the wire is quite nice in studio, and these are STUDIO headphones.)However, the con:  They broke.  At the earpad joint.  Tape, glue, nothing could get them to stay back together.  I ended up replacing them, with a higher-end Sony headphone which, although it's a raise in price, it's a significant jump in quality. (MDR-V700DJ)
5	1132531200	I work in an office job where I'm allowed to wear headphones while I work. For the past two years, I've been searching for the right pair - I had no idea it would be this difficult!Every pair that I've purchased have had some problem or another. The ear bud ones are always too big and hurt my ears (and besides, they get pretty gross). The standard walkman-type headphones are comfortable but the music is pretty audible to people nearby when you play it even at a normal level.Basically, I was searching for a pair of headphones for $35 or less that would hold sound in reasonably well (everyone always advertises noise-cancelling - I wanted noise-containing!), but didn't look like they should be worn by an air traffic controller!I've been exceedingly pleased with these headphones for the week that I've had them. Yes, they are a bit bulkier than some of the more trendy headphones that are out there but they are much better quality. I can't blast my music but I can listen to it somewhat loudly without being audible to anyone around me. The ears are really soft and comfortable, although I will say that I've encountered the same issue with the headset getting a bit uncomfortably tight after wearing it for several hours - especially when I'm wearing my glasses. I expect that will get better as I wear them in. I haven't had any problems with my hair getting stuck in them, as another reviewer mentioned (my hair is several inches past my shoulders).If you're looking for the same things that I was, I would strongly recommend these headphones! I would have paid double and still been very happy with them.
4	1131321600	I had wanted a good set of headphones for some time -those big'ol over the head hi-fi sort- now I did'nt want to spend a big gob of cash on them, I have a HT/audiophile system that I perfer to listen to music on.Now if you're like me you also have a aversion to buing audio stuff (like headphones) from electronics manufacturs (like sony), but, I don't want to be a audio snob: "...and if you don't have gold plated spad lugs and 100% oxyagen free 10 gage monster cable..." blah blah, ANYWAY I got the sony's.I'm very pleased I got the sony's; thay are so comforetable, I love having them on, I'm positve if you spend more you will get better sound, but for what you spend on these you won't be disapointed.Now what I did'nt like about them, thay do'nt have the best sibilance (ssss end up sounding like shshshs) and, the lows -which are reperdused well- seem to be at a lower amplitude then everything else (that may just be sony's way of saving our collictive ear drums), also when the cored bumps it's self or somthing else it sends an audable vibration to the earcups, but that does not happen much.Try these out thay wont dissapoint, and thay are better than eabuds.
4	1130544000	After the most wretched loss of my Sony MDR-EX51 Fontopia Earphones (I loved them so...), I had to replace them, as I had long ago jettisoned the original shoddy iPod earbuds, and had nothing to listen to my lovely iPod mini with. I found out about these and bought them.When I first pulled them out of the box, I was unprepared for how bloody humongous they were! Then I put them on my head, made the proper adjustments, and cranked up the iPod. I was treated to some of the best sound quality I've ever heard, almost but not quite surpassing my late Sony Fontopias. The bass was more pronounced with these than with the Fontopias, but the Fontopias were more bright in the higher ranges, which is what I prefer. However, for overall sound balance, these are winners!A few gripes...Firstly, the cord. It's incredibly long, and I swear it's thicker than my tongue! (I've never occasioned to measure) I've resorted to retaining the original twist-tie that it came with in the packaging, ever since the cord got caught on a city bus door. Yeech, that wasn't fun. Secondly, the headphones are a bit ungainly, being large, difficult to store, and just honkin' huge! They get painful because they tend to exert pressure on my eyeglasses after extended wear. Sure, they sound great, but for a high-speed, low-drag person like me, they are a bit hefty for daily use.I don't mean to sound as if I'm bashing these headphones, they sound fantastic! They're just not perfect, as nothing is, but hey, they are the best darned $20 earphones I've ever bought! I dominate in Counter-Strike as I can hear my enemies coming, and my music has seldom sounded better, as I listen to a wide variety of music from 50 Cent (Rap) and Juno Reactor (Trance) all the way to Checkfield (New Age) and Chuck Loeb (Jazz). A good choice!
4	1129852800	I have had this for a few years with some light use. Sound is surprisingly good for the price but it is a very tight fit over my ears. Cannot use for more than 1 hr at a time and there is no way to adjust the tension.And I don't have a big head at all.
4	1128470400	Overall, a very good set of headphones with great sound.Although these headphones are not your typical "high-end" model, you can still tell the quality that was built into theses headphones. I suspect reliability and dependability will not disappoint anyone. Sony has, and always will, continues to make first class electronics components. The only annoyance would be the bulky and rather thick headphone cord. I imagine it's for better sound reproduction. But it seems most of the thickness is coming from the rubber jacket and not the wire insulation. Earcups a little uncomfortable after extended wear time.Headphones received a "Consumer Reports Best Buy" rating, which usually effect my decision on a lot of electronic purchases.Would have given a 5 star except for the earcup problem.
5	1128297600	I've had these headphones for a little over 4 years now and they still sound exactly as they did the day I bought them. They also look the same... usually after a year or less headphones start breaking apart and sounding bad... but not these!!! The only problem is that the cord is REALLY long but sometimes that's useful. Also, they are rather bulky but I love them too much to ever give them up, even for smaller versions. The problem with tiny headphones is that the wire usually rips out of the ear piece. So over all I give these headphones 5 stars.
4	1127433600	The sound on these headphones was good, as I've expected from Sony products.  The main issue I had with these was that they were uncomfortable after a few hours.  I've lowered my rating to 1 since the left speaker no longer works.  I've had these less than a month.  Very disappointing.
4	1126656000	I've had a few pair of these headphones in the past couple years - in general, each pair has lasted just under a year;  in the end, they've wound up cracking just at the point which holds the adjuster in place, which then causes the earcups to fall out without external support.  This has been pretty consistent between the pairs I've had -  it's unclear to me if it's a general design flaw, or if my head is just plain too wide for the headphones.That being said, they're cheap enough to replace with little concern, which is good, considering the above.  They're also comfortable enough that I can wear them for several hours straight without discomfort, although they do tend to fit tight/stiff, as other reviewers have mentioned.  They also generally do a good job of blocking out noise - even with the sound turned almost all the way down, it tends to drown out background noise.All in all, they're a decent pair of headphones for the price.
2	1126310400	I borrowed this headphone from the college library to view some DVD's on my notebook. While the sound quality is good and with little leakge to surrounding, the headphones are a real pain on the ears! You will definitely wear them outside the ear after 15 minutes of usage !These are the most uncomfortable headphone I have used. Please try something from sennheiser.
3	1125446400	I have had a pair of these headphones for a few years now. They are adequate in every respect for daily use with portable electronic devices (as reflected by the price); they are not exceptional in any way.They have trouble reproducing the lower end of the spectrum; your bass will generally lack omph. Mine (probably through extensive use) sound neither crisp nor resonant, and there is little depth or texture to the sound. This isn't a problem for a lot of guitar driven rock music (like the White Stripes), but the performance of classical and electronic music leaves something do be desired.I would not consider these headphones to be comfortable, and though I have (out of desperation) used them for 4 or 5 hour flights, your ears will be sore afterwards (and you can forget reting on a pillow).They have, however, been very durable. As I've stated, I've been using these heavily for 2 or 3 or 4 years now and have only just  begun to notice a definite decline in sound reproduction capability.If you can spare the $50, get the Sennheiser PX-200s. These are quite possibly the best headphones for portable devices.
4	1124755200	These are a great deal for the price. But they just don't make it if you want great sounding headphones, there isn't really enough clarity, plenty of bass though. If you are listening to music they are great, but not very good headphones for movies where you want to here good vocals. And but if your not using these for a movie or TV they are a great value. And just one more note, they don't squeez your head or hurt your ears unless you wear them for over 4 hours (and my friends call me "big head" too).
5	1123718400	These are wonderful headphones, which I have had to use as regular headphones for a while, since my normal sony headphones broke. These have served me well, and in a backpack stuffed with baseball glove, books, and the CD player itself, they never broke. They are stong and durable for the price, and perfect for any use where they can/need to be used. the sound quality is great, bass is wonderful, and they are collapsable, which helps very much when putting them in a tight storage space. I gave them a 5 out of 5 because I love the quality for the value. the only thing I think it could use is a volume adjuster, be it on the headphones themselves, or the cord. Other than that, they are wonderful headphones.A side-note, my hair also gets caught in it occasionally, but such is the consequence of having long hair I suppose.
3	1123459200	The sound quality is good for the price. But after about 3-4 months these started falling apart. They started cracking up at the joints just above the ear cups, which started falling out of the head band! I use them at work nearly all day. Was disappointed since the sound is good enough and I thought Sony would be great!
5	1123286400	The sound quality is great. They are easily adjustable and feel good on my head. The cord could be a little longer.
5	1121904000	I have my headphones on almost all day when I work, so I really needed a very comfortable pair.  These totally fit the bill.  The ear cups are nice and squishy and feel very light on my head.  Contrary to some other reviews, I didn't find them tight at all, and I have a pretty big noggin.  The sound is great - clear, sharp, good range.  The cord is really long, which is also good for me since my desk area is over 6' long.  For the price, you can't beat these headphones.
1	1121212800	If your a gamer DO NOT BUY THESE! I play BF2, so it sounds as if a tank is in front of me, but it is really to the rear. This is a problem with these headphones, Take this as a warning.They are also smaller than they appear, the circular speaker on each side hurts my ear when I wear them. I wouldnt buy these unless they were on sale. You can pick up a better pair for less.
3	1120435200	PROS -- Cheap- Great build quality and studio monitor capabilityCONS -- The sound is awfulBut for $20, you can't ask for much more. I'd pony up another $15 and get the AKG K26P portables.
5	1119398400	I bought these same headphones from a different store for $20. They are great for home use, specialy with that long cord. I noticed i catch every sound, even better than my Sony earbuds that came with my cd player. I thought the sound was great from my Sony CD Walkman, untill i connected it to my new Creative Zen Touch mp3 player. Sound was even better, and it was easier to set my own EQ because i can tell the difference. The bass is great, even when played loud. I even fall asleep wearing these, so im sure you can see how good they feel on.
4	1118448000	These headphones have got probably the best sound range for a $22.00 dollar pair of headphones I have ever heard. The noise canceling is also pretty incredible (that is comparing to headphones with no electronic help what so ever on noise canceling in this price range). I have owned personally the Bose TriPorts and these Sony MDRs may not have the exceptional clarity the TriPorts do, and lack the exceptional noise canceling, but having had to return the TriPorts for breaking many a time I rather the sturdy exceptional quality of these headphones for the price. I now only use the TriPorts when sitting in an armchair at home (kind of takes away the mobility of these things) because I am totally afraid of them breaking again and having to resend them in (I wish Bose would just give me a refund). I hope to someday save enough for a better pair like a Sennheiser or Grados, which I thought my Bose would be comparable to. For now, while my TriPorts are in the shop again, these things are irreplaceable. These things are so sturdy they can be stepped on accidentally without breaking too, which shows Sony isn't in it for instantaneous replacement which always makes me happy in technology. Even though these are exceptional, everything has a problem. The problem with eyewear (which I have previously seen mentioned), but is minimal for me since I normally use these on my 60gb iPod at bed time, walking the dog, or sitting on the couch, I find myself in almost a more concentrated place without thinking about other things as I did with my glasses on. If you are looking for better sound quality, or have glasses and you would like to use them while listening &#61514;, I would recommend the really nice earbuds the Apple Store sells. The Bangs & Olfsun ear clips are also really nice. These run around 149.99 to 179.99. The JVCs that Apple also sells on there store which are the same form factor as these are also really nice, and don't push on you as much (physically, or on the piggy bank), but after around three hours of listening to an audio book you should still be ready to take a break with the JVCs. All in all, four stars to Sony, fix the eye glasses problem and you should have a five on me for the price you sell these at. As to the earring problem, and long hair, I have never seen a pair of headphones that are full form factor that wouldn't interfere.
5	1117497600	I wanted a pair of decent headphones for home use, so I purchased the MDR-V150 Sony stereo headphones at Best Buy for $20.99 (w/o tax). For the price, they are very good headphones. They have quite a bit of bass, which is something I prefer over the wimpy or non-existent bass in headphone "clips" or the sport headphones. The ear cups are very comfortable and cancel out some sound as well.  The chord is a bit thick and definitely extra long, around 6 feet in length. But honestly that would be my only complaint if I had to complain about these headphones. Overall just a good pair of quality of headphones for home use.
4	1115942400	I purchased these a few days ago at Best Buy. I wanted a good pair of headphones for home use. My Panasonic ear clips are more for use exercising and outside. Excellent sound on these! The only reason I didn't give it five stars is because the headband is a little snug on the top of my head (I have larger than normal head), so I have to have them tilted a little.
2	1115078400	First off, these are well worth the $20 they cost, but the sound is nowhere near as good as 90% of the reviewers here say. The bass completely overwelms the sound, but most people *like* that. If you want more accurate sound or the ability to hear the highs and subtlety of music, you just can't get that with these. The only setting on an iPod that these sound the way they should is on Treble Boost--all the other settings allow the bass to overpower everything else.They are definitely worth $20 though and since most people want to hear fat bass, I would recommend them to any non-audiophile. I'm borrowing them from a coworker and she loves them and has two pair, but she also admits she has no idea what good sound IS.I have some $70 Audio-Technice ATH-M40fs headphones that render every detail of every sound recorded on a track. There is stuff in some music that you've never heard before because it is muddied up with all the bass. Don't get me wrong, M40s have plenty of bass, but only produces it when it is in the recording. But they are big and clunky, have a 12-foot cord and I don't want to bring them on the bus.I'm torn with these V150s, since they are small, cheap and have very listenable sound. But also for $20 you can get the Sennheiser HD220's which cover the entire ear and supposedly have better sound. I've just never heard them.Mainly I wanted to refute the claims that these are some of the best sounding headphones out there especially from some of the DJ's reviewing here. The sound is not that great and certainly not accurate. But you can definitely listen to them and you will get plenty of bass--even on the Bass Reducer setting on an iPod.For $20 you can't go wrong, though plenty of people said they break easily. They feel like that is true, so don't step on them or put them in your backpack and lean against a wall.
3	1114646400	I was about to buy the MDR-V300 but decided to try out the cheaper pair and see if the MDR-V300 would be worth it. After buying this pair I would say that I wouldn't go and buy the MDR-V300s, because the MDR-V300s have the same size earcups and don't differ much from this pair.Negative Aspects1. The earcups are not big enough to cover the entire ear, and so they can either sit on the ear or push up against the ear.2. As well, if these headphones are worn for a long period of time they feel as if though they are putting pressure on the sides of the head. Sometimes it's only for an hour and the hurting begins3. Occasionally you can hear the wires rubbing together when you're moving around slightly4. They are a bit fragile. A weak spot is at the hinges where the earcups can be reversedPositive Aspects1. For the price they're selling at there is good bass and treble.2. The cord is long and covers a lot of distance, but you might be annoyed if you wrap your cords around your ipod, cd player, minidisc or whatever because the cord is thick and doesn't stay in place. So just use a twist tie or elastic to fix that problem3. The cords don't tangle up, and they're better than earbuds because if you're one of those people who can fit them in sometimes and then can't other times, these will be a good fitWho They Might Be ForThese headphones would be good for people who are looking for a pair of lightweight headphones that aren't too expensive but still have decent sound quality. But they're not for you if you're accident prone or might accidentally crush them with a little weight because they're fragile. As well, if you just want a nice heavy duty pair these might not be for you because the earcups are not a nice enough size. There are also better headphones that are made by Sony, JVC and Phillips that should be checked out that are around the same price range, or more if you're willing to spend
5	1113091200	These headphones are a tremendous steal for under $15.  I've been a loyal Sony Headphone user since I bought my first Walkman, oh so many moons ago.These headphones won't give you a neckache (like heavier models), the sound quality is great, and the design allows for hours of comfortable wear.One downside - the length of the cord seems a little long - for the average user (using these for a portable device or laptop) will find that there are a few feet of cord to spare.  Since the cord is rubberized, thus less likely to fold away easily, it does tend to get in the way.
5	1111622400	I find these headphones very comfortable.  I use them on my computer for gaming and they do an excellent job.  The best thing about them is the long cord (esp. for use on a computer) and very little leaking of sound that could bother your spouse (my wife hates to hear my computer games).The sound quality i would rate as good, not excellent.  These aren't audiophyle quality here - what do you expect for &lt;$30.  They do a pretty good job for music.  They do a great job with games.  In fact, if your a serious gamer you owe it to yourself to get decent headphones, especially if you play first person shooters (i hear planes/footsteps and know the direction they are coming from).  Get these for your computer!  If your looking for some for your stereo, spend around at least $100.
4	1111449600	I use these every day in my job as a morning show DJ. I didn't want to spend a fortune for headphones after wearing out a pair of Fostex T20s and Sony MDR-7506 phones over the years. Both of those were around a hundred bucks each. The MDR-V150s don't sound quite as good as either of the aforementioned phones, but they aren't too far off either. And they're a fifth of the cost.The MDR-V150 offer natural voice reproduction and reasonably neutral sonics. Most phones under $70 are designed for pounding out unnatural amounts of bass and have the "smile" curve built in to accentuate the lows and highs, while attenuating the mids. OK for listening to rap on your iPod, BAD for anything even semi-critical. If you rely on phones to give you a fairly accurate idea what the original signal actually sounds like when recording or broadcasting, the MDR-V150 phones work quite well.I previously had a pair of Sennheiser HD 202 phones and wore them about 4 minutes before boxing them up and sending them back in favor of these Sony phones. The Sennheisers, like other inexpensive models, made my voice sound ridiculously bass-heavy. The MDR-V150 phones have a tonal balance similar to the Fostex T-20s, only with somewhat less detail. I also appreciate the heavier-than-usual quality cord & plug, which should stand up under regular use better than more flimsy cables. The cable length is also just right for broadcast DJ-ing.Other guys at the station where I work have various Sennheiser, AKG, & Koss phones (all of which cost significantly more than the Sonys) and the MDR-V150s beats them all hands down.The only possible design improvements I could suggest are a more durable headband, and having the earcushions a bit larger so they fit over the ear. Though the cushions do sit on your ear and not over them, they don't feed back into the mic, and they're not uncomfortable to my ears. Your mileage may vary, though.Bottom line: The Sony MDR-V150 headphones are the best natural, reasonably neutral sounding headphones for semi-critical monitoring applications I've heard for under $70. And I've tried many. Get 'em while you can.
3	1111104000	I've had this headphone for quite a while now and I'm giving it only 3 stars because it hurts my ears after an hour of wearing it.  The earcups seem kind of flimsy meaning that it looks and feels like it will break.  So far it hasn't and I'm glad.  Other than that its a good buy
5	1109030400	Most all of us have owned some kind of Sony headphones, at least the cheap ones that came with our Walkmans.  These feel much different than those did.  There's a feel to the cords and connections that tells you they'll last for decades.  At first, the earcups look too small, but they sit snugly, perfectly, right on the bottom ear.  The cushioning is soft with a familiar vinyl covering that warms to your ears.  Tight enough to stay on securely, but causing no fatigue.  There are even little details like number lines on the sides where the headphones adjust.As far as the sound, it's very clean and clear.  Not outstanding, but it fits my at-computer purposes exactly.  I didn't want to clutter the desk with another family of speakers, and for casual music listening, they work great.They're "Studio Monitor" in look only, but there's a level of quality construction in these headphones I really didn't expect for under $20.Update: these broke months ago
5	1107388800	These are the best headphones out for its value. They look good, sound good, and they are only $18. They are also very durable, I must've dropped them at least a hundred times and they work the same. Unlike other headphones that are ugly and that are the size of your head, these are decently good looking and are fairly small. The headphones are great for everything, you can take them outside or use them for you computer. One problem with the headphones is that it doesn't do a good job of keeping the sound inside the headphone especially at high volumes. If you don't have $150 and want some headphones that will last long and sound good, these are the ones to get.
4	1106352000	I needed a pair of replacement headphones, so i checked these out. They're pretty nice. I listen to loud music and these headphones do the job nicely. They have a good sized cord too so i can take them to the gym and not have to worry about my head yanking off the cord when on a treadmill. They fit pretty well too.
5	1105660800	I love these little things. So light yet so durable, so gritty yet so pretty (opps, that was kinda lame wasnt it), and the most important of them all, so CHEAP and yet so GOOD!These things are awesome, delivering grrreattt and authentic sound at all levels, they satisfy me in just about everyway. I started of with the crappy stock phones, lost em the first day i got em and didnt care a bit. So i bought these, and after owning them for 4 years, they're just startin to fall apart on me, but hell, i used em everyday for at least 4 hours, i dropped them more times than i can count, and they still sound just as good as the first day i got them.If ur looking for a good cheap pair of headphones,and if u cant afford them, then i highly dought that u have the money to pay the power bill which is running the very computer that u are sitting in front of right now.
4	1104364800	If you want better sound than the crappy earphones or headphones that came with your CD/MP3/MD player, get these. They're high in value. Although not the best, they are still great.
1	1101859200	This is a rather simple review, not referring to anything other than the construction of the headphones.Do not buy these headphones. They are terrible.Within 6 weeks, the left earcup will break at the hinge, rendering the set of headphones absolutely useless.  Any fix will stop the headphones from flexing, further lowering the abismal level of comfort.These are terrible.
1	1100649600	The cups are too small, and the sound is not good, my Sony ear-bud headphone is even better than this one. But I want a closed headphone, so I return this Sony MDR-V150 and buy Sennheiser HD 202 instead. Sennheiser HD 202 is more comfortable and sounds better.
4	1100476800	I like these headphones. I'll break them down best and worst.Pros:- Long cord which can be helpul at times.- Durable/You can count on Sony.- Great for sound. Good bass and treble.- Great for traveling.Cons:- Long cord which can also be a pain at times.- Somewhat uncomfortable.- (not really a con but a comment) Why do they say studio monitor at the top of the headphones?Pros - 4Cons - 2Pros are 4/6 = 67%4 starsSo, they aren't excellent, but they are good. Worth getting them if you want hi-fi or they look good to you. Though, I think the HD-202 and the UR15C headphones better. If you're really picky about comfort, I get one of the two I just said.P.S. COMFORT TIP-Take off the earform things. They feel fine, but you may want to put something on them afterwards.
4	1095897600	Ok, you know what everyones been saying about this... really uncomfortable, and they are right at first. You have to press those cups to break them in and adjust the headphones to your head. After that... it still gets sore, but not as fast (like all headphones like this).My main gripe with this is that these things also don't last very long if you aren't super careful with them... if you make a mistake you can break those small little hinges at the end of the cans. For me I like moving around a lot so these things are ususally thrown in a bag with everything and it gets jumbled. They get busted.Sound quality is good for the price once you get over the fact that there is pain in your ears. The sound quality is the only reason this gets a 4. I personally would get this if I didn't have the money, but I'd rather spend a few extra bucks to get the Senheiser HD 202's instead.
4	1091232000	I am on my second pair of Sony MDF-V150's. The first pair lasted about two years, most of which it spent in a backpack. I'm using this new pair for DJ'ing and not much else, so I beleive they'll last a bit longer.Sound quality is good, but on a Sony CD/MP3 player, they aren't as loud as some Philips or TDK headphones I own. On the mixer, loudness isn't an issue, and these phones will surely last longer and deliver more sound quality than other entry-level DJ headphones.I readily recommend these headphones to any beginning DJ and to anyone looknig for a pair of decent hadphoens that won't cost a ton. If you are thinking about getting a &quot;DJ in a box&quot;-type package with headphones that will die in a few months, I suggest that you either build your own system and use these phones, or upgrade ASAP.
5	1088985600	I just bought these for a 3.5 hour trip home and I used them the whole time. I have a rather large head and they were comfortable the whole time. People say they are too tight, which is probally true if you have glasses, but so would any headphone of this type, so buy some in ears or something. For $20, these sound amazing, with very good bass. I also like the long cord which is very heavy duty, so odds are it won't be the first thing to break on them.
1	1088380800	I purchased these headphones hoping that they would be an improvement over the set that came with my portable CD player.  I brought them home and plugged them in with high hopes, and was sorely disappointed.The moment they touched my ears I knew it was trouble.  Only buy these headphones if you like pain to go along with your music.  The ear-cup foam is very hard and the headband is far too tight.  Extremely uncomfortable.As for the sound - they are worse than the set that came &quot;free&quot; with my portable CD player.  Weak bass, muddy vocals, no highs.These are Poser headphones.  They look vaguely like the high end studio headphones used by sound engineers, but the similarity ends there.Not Recommended
4	1086739200	Let's get something straight first - music and audio is my life (however I'd choose to go deaf before blind). I'm quite picky about sound quality. I'm pretty darn close to the pickiest audiophiles in the world.Okay, now that that's outta the way.Overall design and build quality - this is where some points are deducted. As others have stated on here, the fit IS tight - which would be fine for me, if I didn't wear glasses. The pads put pressure on my ears, which puts pressure on my eyeglass bows, and this pains me during extended listening. Other than that, the pads are soft but not squishy, and not too firm, and as long as you're not one of the Keebler elves, the shape is fine. The cord is nice and long which is nice for home use, but I would have preferred to have a retractable cord for portable player use.Sound quality/sound reproduction: most of the time I use these to listen to my Mp3 collection. The sound quality for this price range, is incredible. My father has a true pair of professional quality headphones and these come pretty darn close in the frequency spectrum (which is also pretty good for this price range - it's 18-22,000 hertz, with a 30 millimeter driver). Now the type of music I listen to, brutal heavy metal and hard rock, such as Killswitch Engage or Staind or Cold or In Flames or Lostprophets or pretty much any type of music with guitars, is a pretty hard genre to balance the sound on an audio system with - I know from experience. Well, these headphones handle any type of music well - my metal records and hard rock albums sound clear as a bell. Only complaint I have, is if these are turned up to a loud volume (which I don't do too often), the distortion starts to show. No biggie though - these are cheap headphones. However, plug them into my home theater system, and rev up a 5.1 DTS DVD downmixed to 2 channel stereo for the 'phones, and BOOM, you'd think you own a Bose Lifestyles home theater system. These headphones respond strongly to trebles, have rich sounding bass (none of that overstated boom-boom stuff my peers seem to indulge in), but the midranges can be weak at times - excluding vocals, which come out crystal clear.Usually I am never too happy with Sony's products but make an exception here. For the price, you definitely can't go wrong, you'll never find anything better. However if you want name brands and top-quality sound production, look into Sennheiser or Bose, naturally.Oh and as a last point, these do not cancel much noise - noise is muffled if they're on right and up loud enough, but this might be a good thing for portable use anyway.All in all, DEFINITELY a good pair for the money, heck, a good pair period. If there wasn't that small comfort-over-long-periods-issue, these would definitely get a 5-star rating, this coming from an up-and-rising picky 16-year-old audiophile.
2	1085529600	These are just too damn tight for comfortable use over any length of time. Perhaps they were intended for people with very small heads. The tightness is not adjustable though they can be lengthened to the point where they don't fit. Bargain priced, but no bargain!
5	1084838400	I have had these headphones for approximately 8 months now and I couldn't be happier. Over that period of a time I have had but one or two small issues. With that in mind I would like to state the conditions I used these headphones under. I spent the first 4 months after purchasing these headphones on a wooden tall-ship sailing down the pacific coast. I slept with them every night, (to drown out the noise that is quite common when sharing a sleeping area with 40 other people) they have been tossed in and out of my bunk carelessly (either by myself, or by the swell) and they have been stepped on, squished, crushed, and bashed from general everyday sail handling. With all this in consideration it seems a miracle they still work great. I still sleep with them every night (Old habits die hard I suppose) and now that I am home the long cord is key for me. There are two reasons I personally need a long cord. I like to move around when I sleep so a long cord is essential so that I don't strangle myself, or am limited to one side of the bed. The second reason is that I record music. Ok so I am not a big shot (small band, and minor personal stuff) but I really like to use these when recording. The long cord allows me to plug into my computer and move around to set up microphones, amps, etc. The bonus feature here is the Mono/Stereo switch on the cord. Stereo is complete sound, producing the full stereo effect. At this point I would like to comment on the sound quality. It is incredible; I didn't notice just how good it is until I switched to another pair of headphones. The quality difference was huge, these headphones have great sound quality, crisp, clear, and capable of blowing you away. Now back to the stereo/mono switch. The mono effect is great for recording. It allows you to remove a layer of sound. This is particularly convenient when you want to playback a recording with only your vocals, or that one guitar riff. Its also great for those hard to hear lyrics, eliminate one guitar and now you can hear them a lot easier. I believe it is now the time for my 2 very small problems. Although I find these headphones extremely comfortable (heck I sleep with them on) I do have some slight pains in my ears (cartilage pain) after sleeping with them on for 10 hours. This, of course, is expected considering the pressure I am applying onto my ears. It only happens about once a month, and only when I wear them for an extra long sleep. The second problem is that after 8 months and stretching the cord to its maximum I have managed to frazzle the wires. To clarify, the wires are not exposed nor has the plastic covering the wires cracked or cut, however I do have a loss of sound in my right ear when the cord is in the wrong position. This is a minor problem, as the cord needs to be in a certain position for it not to work, a slight alteration and the sound is restored. These are high quality earphones. The earpieces can be reversed so that 2 people can listen when recording, or if only one ear is needed when recording it can easily be done. The comfort level is great, the adjustability is easy, convenient and highly variable. I give these headphones a 5 of 5
4	1081296000	If only it had a little more high end treble. Other than that they work great on a good home stereo!
3	1081123200	Got these from Amazon about three months ago, and I am pleased with this purchase overall.  The sound quality is fine for casual listeners.  As other reviews have noted, however, the fit is tight enough to make you uncomfortable in perhaps less than an hour.  I have a smallish head and wear glasses and am still trying to find just the right way to position these on my ears.  I usually end up taking them off after a while.Incidentally, contrary to another comment, these do not block outside noise at all, but this is to be expected.  I can hear every conversation around me when I am playing music.
5	1080864000	If the world gives you trouble, block everything out by putting on these headphones and tuning in your favorite CD.  Soft ear muff-like design will give you comfort while blocking out any outside noise.  You only hear music and none of the outside chatter.An extra-long cord is very useful if after listening to a bad CD, you feel like hanging yourself.I've been searching for a good pair of headphones for a long time.  If you want a good pair of headphones without spending a hefty amount, ger these!
4	1076544000	I picked these up at my local electronics store after being absolutely fed up with my 'phones breaking at bad times (try a 5 hour plane ride and your stereo headphones suddenly become mono...). I had tried those clip on ones, phones that  go 'round the back of your head, the traditional style, heck, what DIDN'T I try? I was desperate...So, getting back to the point, I picked these up in a frustrated rage after having a half-decent pair die on me just while sitting at home. For the 20-buck-or-so price tag, I was expecting, quite honestly, the something along the lines of the pieces of crap I had previously owned. I was pleasantly surprised. The band and phones themselves are comfortable, and the inculded adapter (1/4 inch plug to an 1/8 inch one) was a real plus. They handle my range of music pretty well, though I must say they are not for proud audiophiles. The midrange is pretty good, the treble's okay, and the bass... well... It's okay too. They block out outside sound (be it engine noise or the screaming of toddlers) fairly well, and the long cord is a bonus. Unlike several similar pairs I've owned, the earphones do not snap off or the wires break when I trip over the cord/ walk away (yes, it does happen. I'm sure you've forgotten you were tethered to a stereo before...) and so far they seem to be holding up pretty well.I'd definitely recommend these for all you middle-of-the- road, casual listeners out there, or semi-audio geeks, the picky-but-not-too-picky. If you're looking for something with absolutely incredible, religious experience sound, and you know who you are, try a high-end pair from a high end brand. What more can I say? Thanks, Sony, for making something comfortable, durable, and pretty decent sounding, and for offering it for 20 bucks.
3	1071014400	Durability/build -- I stepped  on mine, so now I can't wear them on my head. However, I like the fact that the cord and electronics weren't built into said headband. It's just too bad that my clumsiness has rendered them unusable unless I hold them to my ears with both hands. The pads are not foam, so they won't deteriorate and fill your ears with yucky black dust. They were very soft and comfortable, and the headphones overall are lightweight. The cord could be longer; it's not coiled and doesn't stretch or retract. I've had these a while, so I don't remember whether they came with the adapter for stereo plugs or if I had to buy it. They fit as is in my iMac and TV just fine, though.Sound -- not bad. I've had my share of headphones over the years, and I use mine to listen to the internet radio on the computer, or occasionally to fill in for my ones I use to listen to TV and DVD. I like a bass that isn't muddy, is powerful yet clear. I like trebles to be clean. For the price, these don't do badly. The best set of headphones I ever had were some Aiwas in a similar price range that you can't find anymore. So, whether you like to listen to vocalists, like Clooney or Mathis (I do, too) or whether you dig the Motown sound with its driving Funk Brothers bass (I do, too), or you love the instrumental jazz like Cassandra and Nancy Wilson (I do, too), these will do a decent job for the money.Now, I'm off to get some new headphones.
3	1069286400	they feel too tight and hot.  My ears burn after wearing them for a while.  Maybe the headphones were designed for people with small heads.  I tried some Panasonics at a computer lab that felt much more comfortable.
3	1062201600	I brought this to use at my work(with PC)..but after listening for 2 to 3 hours I had to takeoff the headphones..!!They do not cover my ears completely instead they apply pressure on my ears and it pains.(removed 2 stars for this..)The sound quality is really good, great looks,the cord is long.
2	1057881600	I got these headphones because I wanted a studio style headphone without spending a bundle.The Pros to these:Long Cord.  Which is a good idea for computers you won't feel like a dog on a short chain afraid to move your head.Reversible ear cup.  I don't feel comfortable making it go completely flat but who needs it too?Good Sony sound quality.Allows for small heads.  I have troubles with headphones because they either float next to my ear and barely touch or they don't go small enough so they keep sliding down because they are too long.Durable.  The thicker cord helps a lot I have had these 2-3 years and no broken wires which is always a problem I have had in the past because of traveling. The sliding piece feels good and strong. As does the joints for the cups.THE CONS:COMFORT!  They are not comfortable with glasses for very long. After about 30-45 min I have to take off my glasses or resituate them above the phones. Also they sit on the top of the head and it bothers my scalp. I have to alternate the positioning when listening to for long periods. If you wear glasses and have trouble with them with larger cup headphones it would be a very good idea to go somewhere where you can try them on before you buy them.Long cord.  The long cord can be a little disadvantage if using a portable CD player with a remote and are moving around.I personally would recommend Sennheiser instead of these. If you look on the Internet you can get the 202's or the HD 457 ... Sennheiser has other low price one's but I have never used them.If I had to buy headphones again and was going to get sony I would try the MDR CD series first they feel like they would be more comfortable for long periods of time. I didn't get to listen to them though because there was something worng with the display sound system.But if comfort hasn't been a problem for you in similar headphones before or you don't wear headphones for long periods of time buy these Sony Phones. I was pleased with these I just wish they were more comfortable.
5	1057708800	Date: July 09, 2003To:  Customers who are in search of HeadPhones,These are the type of headphones(the style) that publicschools,or public libraries use when it  comes tolistening to CD-Roms, or music. The Headphones are fromSony, and they are of high quality, they also have a longcord so you won't feel limited when connecting them to yourPC or Cassette, DVD Recorder/Radio(blaster).Some cords areare so short that they just do not let you enjoy youractivity(s).These  Headphones  are low priced, so please, get thembecause Excellent things at low prices are hard to find.Now, i repeat again. They are of Excellent Quality and at lowprice, not cheap price, but low price, okay?
5	1057276800	But then, what else do you expect from Sony? I don't claim to be an audiophile, but I have nothing but love for these headphones after using them for perhaps a year now. I used to go through headphones every couple of months; something or other would break and I would have to go back and look for another pair. The MDR-V150 stopped that revolving door. The sound is excellent, and the headphones feel light on the head even after hours of use. The best feature here is the way the earphones plug into the headband; if you ever jerk on the cord too hard (like I always accidentally do when I put a foot on it while I stand up) the earphone pieces detach from the headband, rather than snapping the plastic bits like many other headphones in this price range will. You snap the earphones back into the headband and you're back in business.I use these headphones every day, and while I'm sure most true audiogeeks would be better suited by a pair of Seinnheisers or another high-end brand, this pair is perfect for me. Heck, I'm on my fourth different CD player since buying them; how's that for longevity? Highly recommended if you're in the market for headphones near the 20 dollar price point.
