1	1403654400	The mouse lost the ability to left click after using for around 4 months. I contacted Razer who then sent me a refurbished mouse to replace my 4 month old. This refurbished mouse has been used for two weeks and now the right button has gone bad.I contacted Razer again and was informed I need to RMA the refurbished mouse (sent back with shipping paid out of pocket again...).At this point, I'd have to recommend Logitech over Razer.. The DeathAdder 2013 is great, but it's build quality is just not as good as Logitech's.
5	1403568000	I like this mouse. I been using Razer Gaming Mouse for some time. Nice to have the lefty version for a change. They do wear out but not as fast as other I've used in the past.
5	1403568000	Razer mice are just the best. They are the most badass looking, and, most importantly, the most ergonomic mice I've ever used. I used it with my MacBook Pro and it works very well.
5	1403568000	i ordered this for myself to use on my home computer and it works great, better then the mouse that came with the computer i would definitely recommend this to family and friends
5	1403568000	Your hand can fully rest on it because the mouse is pretty big, which is really comfortable. I don't like a lot of buttons so the 2 buttons on the side are enough for me. The clicking is very accurate so i never misclick in a game anymore. The black design really is the tip of the iceberg and makes this Razer Deathadder definitely worth buying. If you're hesitating about the fact that you should  switch to a gaming mouse because 'it doesn't make a lot of difference', let me tell you that it does. Once you buy a gaming mouse, you're never returning to any other standard mouse. This mouse is really worth its money!
3	1403568000	Works like any other mouse.Feels like cheap plastic.Scroll Wheel is eh.Annoying Software (changes are saved even when uninstalled).Scroll wheel feels off when clicked.
5	1403395200	I love this mouse. I previously used Steelseries Xai and Sensei. They are both great mice, but I don't like the basic feel of them. The DeathAdder has a really nice feel to it and it fits perfectly in my hands. I really think this mouse is more superior than any steelseries mice. From what I've heard from friends and reviews is that the DeathAdder has a longer life than other mice. I really think this mouse is the best basic gaming mouse available at a very reasonable price. 5/5.
5	1403136000	I purchased this mouse to go along with my new computer, and I must say, I am really impressed. I haven't had any Razer products prior to this but I think I will buy more Razer equipment. I got this mouse for about $50, it was on sale. It fits my hand perfectly, and has great build quality. It's not overloaded with features and the two extra buttons on the side are really all I need. It's very comfortable and I went from a claw grip to a more relaxed grip on the mouse because of the design. I give it 5 stars because I got it for a great price and it performs wonderfully.
5	1403049600	I wanted a mouse with side buttons for game functionality, but not too much extra fluff, a decent hand-filling size and a clean aesthetic. The Deathadder delivered in each of these criteria. I would describe it as a medium-large mouse, and it's slightly small for my hand. I can't quite rest my palm upon it and still have to pinch somewhat to use it.The mousewheel is illuminated, and a Razer logo fades in an out on the top of the mouse. The side and wheel are rubberized for grip, while the rest of the mouse is done in a flat black color. The mouse cord has a braided cover - a nice touch, and uses standard USB 2.0 plugs. There's the left and right buttons, a wheel that can scroll and click (no sideways clicking on the wheel) and two buttons on the left side - Mouse 4 and 5. It IS a right-handed mouse and is slightly contoured to fit a right-hander.I've noticed no lag, the pulsing light has never dimmed randomly and it worked fine without software. Oddly enough, trying to install Synapse software to change the button functionality didn't work, as the software got stuck in some endless update cycle. So if you're going for that cloud functionality I can't say it worked for me, but as a gaming mouse it works perfectly fine.I tend to bind Fraps or Steam screenshots to the front button, while the rear button is something I retain for selector switches and alternate fire. I haven't messed with settings, but I feel it's plenty accurate for sniping in BF4, piloting in War Thunder and giving rapid-fire commands in RTS games. The side buttons can be somewhat easily depressed if careless. The lower button tends to go 'back' on most web browsers, which is somewhat annoying.I believe I found the mouse for $40.00 or so, so the current price of the $50-$60 range strikes me as a little bit much for such a plain, if quality mouse. I'd shop around for a deal, but if push comes to shove it's probably still worth the higher price.
5	1403049600	A great mouse, looks great and runs smooth. Razer always makes a good product when it comes to gaming or doing everyday things on your computer or laptop.
5	1402963200	Fits in your hand like it should. the extra side buttons help me out with my games so much :) over all, its a sweet mouse!
5	1402876800	Just got into PC gaming, having a good mouse is essential. This thing is better than any mouse I've ever used, and is just so smooth. I use it for browsing reddit and playing StarCraft 2. I love the cable design.
5	1402704000	I rated this five stars because the mouse really is great.It's comfortable, simple, and high quality. Worth the $50 I spent.
4	1402704000	Ok, so I knocked a star off for size, but that may just be me. People tell me I have very large hands, so who knows? Responsiveness and tracking couldn't be better so overall this is another great Razer product. For comparison, my old Microsoft 5 button laser mouse fit my hand just right.
5	1402704000	I looked at the Razer Naga for a long while but instead decided to get this mouse. I am very pleased with it thus far. Looking at the Naga, I was actually afraid of all the buttons. I felt that while in game, I would not be able to quickly hit the button I need correctly. There is no problem with this mouse though. It fits well in my hand (granted I am female and have smaller hands than most men) and the buttons allow me to perform moves quickly and accurately while in game.I will admit that I wish I could change the green color to a pink or purple, but that won't be a problem for most and does not affect my overall love and satisfaction for this mouse.It has very quick response and is much better than my Microsoft wireless mouse I had gotten for 30 dollars at Wal-Mart. Definitely worth the money.
5	1402617600	I have been perfectly satisfied with this mouse so far after buying it to replace the previous POS I was using (stolen from my parents; terrible choice). It fits my hand comfortably and doesn't get sweaty during use. The plastic used for the body has a nice matte texture that looks good and helps me grip it. The two thumb buttons don't get in the way while moving the mouse. The scroll wheel moves smoothly despite having convenient &#34;notches&#34; that let me turn it a distinct increment and are extremely useful when using the wheel to select options (e.g. changing weapons in a FPS or selecting an option in a dropdown box). The braided cord seems durable.A word of warning: if you prefer to hold your mouse with your fingertips only, this is not the mouse for you, unless you have huge hands. I have medium-large hands and have to contact the mouse with most of my hand when using it.
5	1402531200	I do love deathadder's cool features, and it's full duty capable.  the only cons is the left button, it's kinda lose and shaking. but it doesn't bother using at all
5	1402531200	Awesome, no issues. Could use hand size recommendations next to image.arrived sooner then expected. Great mouse for anyone who needs to game at higher levels
5	1402358400	Purchased to replace my other Razer DeathAdder. Only reason I needed to replace my older one, which worked perfectly, was because I was retarded and scuffed up the bottom pretty badly, which caused some highly noticeable, very distracting negative feedback when in use. This did not impact the speed or precision of my mouse, but I was worried that over time the issue would eventually damage the flat, hard Razer mouse mat I recently purchased.Anyway, this replacement is actually a bit of an upgrade in its own right. I like the extra grip it has on the sides, and over all it just feels great in my hand. Also, this one has a higher DPI than my older one, which I guess is a plus, not that I ever use 6400 DPI settings.Great mouse. I like that it's wired. Don't have to fuss about batteries or any of that nonsense. I recommend it.
5	1402272000	I've hopped around a few different brands. Won't name names but a science-marketing oriented company left me feeling extremely disappointed with a shoddy laser sensor and a keyboardthat I spent $100 on that felt worse than my $10 OEM keyboard at work.DeathAdder 2013 has the absolute best optical sensor I've tried, hands down. Surface feel is excellent. Eliminates the older models problem (glossy plastic sides on the old version, greattextured/rubber grips on this edition). All buttons are FANTASTIC, including a clicky / rubberized scroll wheel that's really quite perfect (the above mentioned poor experience came froma competitors mouse that had a lot of interesting gimmicks but failed to simply &#34;scroll up, scroll down, click&#34;.) DA 2013 scroll wheel is basic but works FLAWLESSLY and no matter how manygimmicks get thrown into a mouse.The only dislikes? Grip type is an adjustment, will need to test it for a couple weeks to nail down how much I like it. Right side of the mouse / contour doesn't sit right in the hand on firstuse, but like a lot of these mice, it takes a week or two of use to settle on the shape and get accustomed. Lack of buttons, but in my opinion, that's a positive, because having 50 extrabuttons pushes towards gimmick territory and never helped me quite a bit. Some folks dislike Synapse, all of the gaming products I've used have a tray/application for customizing profiles,so far Synapse is simple and clean, manages the Warranty, and stays out of the way. Doesn't bug me at all.I'd recommend this mouse for anyone playing primarily FPS, RTS, as well as MMO players looking for a mouse that perfectly covers every base a gaming mouse needs. The frills on other mice(15 side buttons, side-scrolling / freewheel adjustable scroll wheel, right & left side buttons) are gimmicks that will wind up becoming nuisances, this mouse nails all of the core featuresa gaming mouse needs and improves upon prior models (via the new rubberized side grips, fantastic scroll wheel, good position thumb buttons, nice mouse clicks). If you're tired of mice with a bunch of gimmicks that don't deliver, go for it, this is a legendary, #1 mouse for quite some time and it earns its reputation.
5	1402272000	This mouse is easily the best mouse I have ever used. The buttons feel sturdy and the 2 side buttons are not as flimsy as other gaming mice. The mouse is a little large, but the size is almost nothing to worry about. Also this mouse feels great, your fingers will almost never slide or slip and it has a nice feeling to the curve of it. Finally, the lighting is fantastic. The green light goes really well with the sleek black of the mouse. This mouse is great, I would recommend it to anyone, my friend has owned this mouse for a year, and it still has yet to show any problems whatsoever. Great job on this mouse Razor! :D
2	1402185600	My mousewheel broke after 2 months of use.  Opening up the case, hoping it was simply unseated - I found that the shaft which connected the mousewheel to the component that detects mouse motion was pin-needle sized and made out of cheap plastic.I've had a lot of mice and usually this part is larger than a pin-needle simply because the routine use will guarantee a break if it isn't sturdy enough.Your mousewheel will break.Comfortable grip though, and the mouse buttons are very easy on my hand.  - I'd give it 5 stars it fit wasn't for the cheap mouse wheel because I like everything else about it.
1	1402185600	I have taken great care of my mouse, and then the mouse began double left clicking when I only click once. This problem is occurring to many of Razer's s***ty products, as there are many results that came up when I searched it online. You are better off with a logitech mouse or any other Razer mouse. This is my second Razer mouse and my last, as their quality of their items are terrible. Buy from a company that cares about their customers and their products. I do not recommend this mouse to anyone, as this problem of the double clicking has occurred on many of Razer's products. If you do decide to buy this mouse, buy it off of Razer's website store, as Amazon gives you an extremely short refund time. Easily 1/5
2	1402012800	First off, the tracking and overall build quality of the mouse is very good. Although it starts to hurt my hand after only about 5 minutes. I have fairly large hands and just cant use for long at all. The mouse is very curved (which makes it look pretty awesome) which arches your hand pretty far up making it painful to use. Also the rubber side grip on the side that your thumb rests on is a horrible addition. If your hands are just slightly sweaty the rubber becomes extremely slippery and difficult to hold. In my opinion i would not recommend this moue to really anyone due to the comfort of it.
5	1402012800	I purchased this because it is specifically designed for left-handed people. It is very comfortable and glides easily. I went with the wired mouse also because my wireless would sometimes have connectivity issues. I am not a gamer but I would not hesitate to purchase another one if I needed to.
4	1401926400	Well I initially ordered this because I read some of the thousand reviews on this, and people claimed that it was a great replacement for a G500. So when my G500 started to "poop" out on me I jumped on the band wagon and purchased my first Razer product. Now while I havnt personally had this problem I have heard that people have had issues with Synapse 2.0, such as it "bricking" their mouse. Now I've never had that issue, thankfully, but that is something to be weary of.Now the comparison between the G500 and the Razer DeathAdder begins!I should preface this by stating that I have a large hand, the G500 was compfertable but a tad small, the DeathAdder is smaller in terms of length and the arc of the mouse itself, so it leads to my finger tips hanging over the end of the mouse. Over the 12 months that I've owned this mouse, I have steadly adjusted my grip from a palm style to a more of a claw hybrid, so while initially it was uncompfertable, I have over time adjusted to work with it.Now one major issue with previous mice ive had is that the middle mouse button was too light or too hard to press, on the death adder it is just perfect for me, where the G500 was too light, and I would often end up hiting the tilt buttons on it as opposed to the middle mouse. The scroll wheel on the death adder is remarkable, you can feel each click as you move down a page, or switch weapons. However I do miss the ability to speed to the bottom of the page as I could with a G500.Weighting, this was never an issue with either of my mice, the G500 had weights with it that allowed you to adjust the weight, however the DeathAdder does not, so this may be an issue for some people.As far as the tracking is concerned, I love the death adder, I never feel like it skips, It truly does what it should. I will also say that I have tried it on a glass surface, and the tracking was rather iffy, which did make me require a mouse pad.And Finaly the cable, this is where the G500 failed me, the cord had a break in it after about 6months of use, and made it so that the mouse only worked intermittently, Both cables are braided, but I will say the DeathAdder has yet to break so I am very pleased with it.Pro's:Lightweightcool design(if your into that kinda thing)Perfect trackingHigh DPIBraided CableUSBCon's:Small(for me)USB 2.0(I have a 3.0, so i would have perfered that)Less buttons than the G500(G500 also included tilts on the mouse wheel, a third button on the left side, and adjustable dpi)Some peoples got bricked by the softwareOverall, I love the mouse, I would recomend it to anyone with an average sized hand. Most of my quams with it are my own fault, such as having a large hand, but the mouse itself performs extraordinarly.
5	1401926400	Perfect fit in hand, perfect positioning in every app, game or etc.A bit sharpy surface... maybe not suited for everyone, have to get used to it.
4	1401926400	I previously owned a razer diamonback 3g and used it for around 8 years. I got a lot of use out of this mouse and it actually still works. I just wanted something with firmware that worked on windows 8 with more customization.Razer products have been very durable for me and well worth the investment.The only issue I have, may be specific to my mouse, is that the mouse5 button on occasion sticks. It happens rare enough where it is not an issue otherwise I would send it back.
5	1401840000	This mouse is great, and i haven't had any problem's. If your worried about synapse you can download it once get your settings and uninstall it and your mouse will still keep the settings. I prefer synapse though so i can calibrate my mouse to make it more accurate. Overall great performance for price.
2	1401667200	Externally you'll love this mouse.. the grips on the side, overall aesthetics and functionality are great.It's a great concept and works well --- for a short while, until things start breaking internally.I've gone through 2 of these already. The first just stopped working for whatever electronics reason.On the second, the scroll wheel stopped working. Took it apart and found an extension piece of the scroll wheel broken off inside the scroll wheel monitor. After popping it out and looking at it under a magnifying glass, you could see it was originally GLUED onto the scroll wheel... I mean seriously, glued?? and it was such a tiny, fragile 1.5mm diameter piece -- if you use/click your scroll wheel as much as I do, this glued-on piece is bound to break off sooner or later.It's a shame Razer couldn't just take those last few steps to make this a solid mouse with stronger high quality components to make it more reliable and long-lasting.Good mouse in many ways, but it's cheap inside. If you're looking for a long-lasting reliable mouse, this is not for you.
5	1401667200	just got this mouse a couple days ago, and i love it. works great, looks great, feels great. i would recommend if you're in the market for a nice gaming mouse, for sure.
5	1401494400	Just for the record this is by far the best mouse out there for the price in my opinion, period.
3	1401494400	I recently upgraded to the Naga lefty 2014 edition and boy will I say if you can spare the extra $20 or so you should definately get that instead! The DeathAdder's mouse wheel is ofd varying consistency and texture on different models or so it seems. I have had two of these babys and my first one the scroll wheel ended up squeaking when scrolling down and the click function on the scroll wheel stopped working. On my second one the scroll wheel was very slippery not like the first one and the mouse wheel was really loose too. The sides are shiny plastic thats very slippery and when your hands start to sweat in the summer it can become a real pain. The material that the top and buttons of the mouse are made of is a really weird rubber like material but it doesn't provide much traction for your hands.
2	1401408000	Disclaimer - I have returned this to Amazon and am just hoping that I got a dud.  Will update this review later after I have had some time with the replacement.  If it works the way it did while it was functional, I'll update it to 4 stars.  The one star hit being from having to use Synapse.THE GOOD:-This is a sleek looking mouse.  The logo lighting up adds a nice touch to it, the finish isn't shiny and stays looking nice even when played with, and the cord is braided and long.- It is an extremely comfortable mouse.  Probably the most comfortable mouse I have had.  The rubber grips are nice for a bit of extra traction, the top isn't shiny so it doesn't get slippery with sweat after a lot of play, and the shape fits very naturally into your hand.- The side buttons are well placed and really convenient for both gaming and everyday functions.- The sensitivity is really top-notch, and makes a very noticeable difference over any other mouse I have had.  Very smooth movement with no skipping.THE BAD:- There are a lot of reviews that mention this mouse suddenly stopped working.  Count this as another one.  It worked great on my laptop for about a week.  Then I tried it on my new computer, and all it did was blink faintly at me.  The computer didn't recognize it on any USB port, and wouldn't then even work on my laptop after.  Made no sense.THE UGLY:- Razer Synapse 2.0.  God, what a terrible idea by Razer.  Cloud based driver storage should be an opt-in function, and not a requirement for the mouse to work. Granted, you are automatically logged in at startup if you so desire, so it isn't that much of a hassle...but if you are without internet or just don't want the bloatware on your system, you might want to look at another brand.  If you DO choose to not use Synapse, or disconnect from Synapse, all of your settings will revert off of whatever you had them set to.  They don't seem to care that Synapse is basically universally unpopular among their users, either.  If Razer DOES read this review (since they seem to lurk the comments a bit): listen to your customers about terrible software like Synapse, and maybe people will stop saying that you have terrible customer service.  Listening to the customers does wonders for those kinds of PR problems.Overall though, I really was impressed when the mouse was functioning.  That's why I shipped it in for a replacement instead of just returning it.  Any company you care to name will produce a dud every now and again, and from what I have seen, Razer is pretty responsive at getting you a new one (and Amazon's customer service regarding returns is amazing).  My only real gripe about Razer is their terrible Synapse software.  Give me a standalone driver that I can configure without an internet connection.
5	1401408000	The response, weight, and shape are all great on this mouse. I really like the rubber along the bottom edge, it was a nice touch. The DPI is well high enough for my purposes. The green LED light is nice too. The mouse appears to be in perfect condition and appears very durable.
5	1401408000	The mouse it self feels good on hand , no pain and also nice touch , the DPI is really good and u can controll it if you download razer app.
4	1401408000	Bought this nice mice for a while now.Seems to be well made, good materials , good as you can customize many things and so on.The only problem that I have is that is too big for people with smaller hands.It will be ok if your big thumb is longer and you can click the left side button, but if not the only remaining thing that you can do is to grab the mouse over top and try to reach it.I do not play games with the hand on top of the mouse ; it is forcing me to keep my grip on top of it which in time leads to fatigue, miss clicks  and so on.Pro: - good quality materials used-nice lights(green) and you have the option to turn them off.-various ways of customize it , which is very helpfull-nice grips form sideways , making it very stable.-nice touch being able to customize sensibility on other surfaces mats.con:- side buttons maybe were put too high in my opinion:- not really suited for smaller handsI'll keep updates as the time goes on and I play more with it.Thank's for reading !
1	1401321600	i had the 1st gen deathadder back in 2007, and had a great experience with it. it got broken after 4yrs of use.So i decided to get this new edition, and it just stopped working after a month,that i cannot replace it thru amazon and had to contact Razer support.it took almost a week for me to have it sent in (saying that there was fire in CA and all the employees had to evacuate WTF?)and waiting for the replacement for another week. such a horrible experience with razer this time.This experience gave me never to buy razer product EVER AGAIN.thanks razer
4	1401235200	After doing countless of online research I've finally took a plunge to buy my first gaming mouse.(Most pro reviews says that this one offer the best bang for its price).It look really sleek, and feels really nice to use.The optical sensitivity is top notch.Was worried when reading some people complaints the need to download and set up Razer synapse for its set up, however I personally don't think it's an issue at all.Took me less than 5 minutes to set up the whole thing.Note: you'll probably need a larger mouse pad for this. I normally use the standard Logitech mini mouse with normal mouse pad. However as the mouse glides so smoothly, I felt that my movement was a bit restricted.(Problem fixed by getting a qck mouse pad).
5	1401235200	Very ergonomic and comfortable to handle, very soft cable, in general is a great product. Works great with games too.
5	1401235200	I recently ordered this product, and I don't foresee myself having any complaints! It's very responsive, but I may be biased. It's replacing my cheap $20 Logitech mouse from Radioshack. The customize-able buttons using Synapse are great. I personally use them for media keys, but you can set them for almost any function you could want.Pros: Very responsive, customize-able buttons, feels great in my handCons: I wish there were an option to leave the logo light on at all times rather than pulsing (This is the only thing I would change, so I'm not very concerned about it.)All in all, it's a great mouse!
5	1401235200	Great feel and fit for my hand. The leds look awesome, as with all Razer gear. I love the size and position of the forwards and back buttons. The only thing I would consider adding is an on-the-fly DPI.
5	1401148800	Best left-handed mouse I've ever had. Fits my hand perfectly, I use the thumb buttons with my MMO. It takes a bit of time to get the settings and sensitivity right. The higher settings result in an extremely fast mouse on my Alienware 14 laptop, but about 1200 dpi did the trick for me.
5	1401148800	I have never owned a Razer Mouse before until yesterday. So what does it mean for me? Installation was smooth and it was just plug in and play. Before you even want to start gaming, download Razer Synapse 2.0 so you can adjust your settings and all. Personally, I never have been into PC Accessories because I thought a mouse didn't affect gameplay but after playing games like Team Fortress 2, Diablo 3, or even OSU this mouse does the job well done. With 6400 dpi and nice rubber side grips for you to hold when the battle gets going.. you definitely need it. I recommend this mouse if you play everything, because it's not like the Naga or the Hex but it definitely gets the job done.
4	1401148800	This mouse is fantastic for gaming. It's very precise with movement and clicking, but after several months, the left button starts randomly double-clicking when you just want to click once.
4	1401062400	Ok so I will break this down into little sections and touch up on a little bit of everything as I review the mouse.1. Form Factor: It fits nice in my hand (but then again I have small hands.) The grip on the mouse has some slight bumps on it which is great for grip, the mouse feels like it belongs in my hands. It has the left and right click, the scroll wheel, and there are two buttons on the side of the mouse they are easy to reach.2. Function: it works great, I play alot of different games, from twitch shooters, strategy games, etc etc. The feedback is great, very responsive.3:Only issue: the clicking is a little bit too sensative, sometimes i fire when I dont want to, but thats on me
3	1401062400	The mouse itself was great! It felt good on the hand, the size was just right and the main buttons allowed for rapid clicking without being too sensitive. The weight was heavier than an ordinary mouse but it wasn't anything for me to complain about.My biggest gripe was Synapses 2.0. It worked well for a month or two (don't remember exactly since it was a long time ago) but then the mouse suddenly stopped working. I was not sure if it was a driver issue or a firmware issue but all a sudden, the mouse would start lagging more and more as time went on and then just stop working all together. If I remove it and plugged it in again, it would work but 10-20 mins later, it stopped again. I tried using the mouse on another computer without synapses and it worked fine (but it becomes a basic mouse = no fun...). I could not find any of the older drivers to fall back to since Synapses is suppose to handle it and the main Razer sites did not have the driver for this model. (If it did, the categorization of which driver to use for specifically for this mouse was unclear (2012?, original?, some special edition?)). I tried uninstalling Synapses (removing everything) and then reinstalling it but the issue still existed. It came to a point were I could not even normally open Synapses and had to open it as administrator, which even then did not help since it did not detect the mouse or none of the adjustments could be made when it detected it.Since I could not get Synapses to work, which left the mouse just as another ordinary mouse with low dpi, I sadly returned it and got a refund through Amazon.In summary, the mouse was great. I really wished that there was some other way to use the mouse without using synapses and keep all of the internal features because the mouse was so smooth with fast response, and it weighed and sized just right. It was so nice.Synapses 2.0 on the other hand made the mouse the same like those old mouses with a track sphere on the bottom. Horrible.I would rate the mouse 4.8 out of 5. but Synapses out 1 out of 5. (This includes all of the other issues that people have been having with Synapses as well.)
5	1401062400	GREAT MOUSE! The quality was unexpected, I was using a Microsoft mouse and thought that was good until I tried this. It's extremely smooth when gliding along surfaces. I'd recommend this to ANY gamer.I really like how you can easily customize it to your own preference.But the only mistake with it would have to be the typo in the Quick Start Guide, page 5, point 4, 2nd sentence- It's missing a space and is written as "unplugand".Overall, very good.
2	1400803200	The feel and heft and precision of this mouse are terrific, but beware... the left mouse button (the fire button for most games!) wears out WAY too soon. I was so surprised when it quit working (within a year) that I bought a second Razer DeathAdder. Same thing happened in about the same time period. Maybe if my aim improved it would last longer. :) Fool me twice, shame on me.
3	1400803200	I've had this mouse for about a year and it was perfectly fine but after another game of CSGO my left click became faulty.Sometimes it clicks sometimes it doesn't. Really annoying. I am not sure if I can fix it but it broke faster than my original blue deathadder I had for more than 3 years. Disappointing.
5	1400716800	I'm a big pc gamer and up until recently I viewed most "professional" gaming accessories as little more than good looking accessories. As such this was my first Razer product and I have to say I was blown out of the water by the difference in quality. First off the mouse simply looks clean and elegant with soft glowing lights to compliment the black exterior. Not only does it look good but the difference in how it conforms to your hand is staggering. Seriously it fits like a glove. The buttons feel crisp, responsive and satisfying.When you couple the mouse with Razer Synapse ([...]) you are given full control over every setting. Whether you want to crank it up to 6400 DPI or just change the way the lights function, it's all super simple and straight forward.If you are like me and didn't see what all the fuss was about when it comes to quality accessories I highly urge you to try this mouse and feel the difference.  I can for certain say that the next keyboard I buy will be a Razer product.
5	1400544000	My boyfriend loves it. The price is affordable, and the quality is really good at this price. Really good deal.
5	1400544000	Well im still trying this mouse is more light than the razer imperator, for me is more confortable but i really miss the sensitivity keys but is a relly good mouse and i totally recomended
5	1400457600	Amazing gaming device. Nothing superfluous, only the most necessary - quality and accuracy of the positioning.Green Version is a bit cuter then the blue one :)
5	1400457600	I ordered this for my son.  He has been using it for about a month & likes it.  What he was wanting....works fine so far.
5	1400371200	Been using deathadders for the last four years. It is definitely a quality product, however I do still recommend getting the warranty as there are a couple issues that do tend to pop up with the latest model from time to time; so better safe than sorry!
5	1400284800	As i did my homework like any regular joe does before they buy any electronic device, i found that going with the razer deathadder 2013 was going to be a great choice. I purchased the item a week ago and waited a week for delivery (my choice, didnt want to pay so much ) and when it got here package was really hot as it is really hot here in CA. Mail man bought my package and i finally opened my first Razer product!Pros: The mouse itself has this texture to it so when your hands get clamy your still able to grip the mouse.side grips for better handling.Razer logo lights up as so does the mouse wheel. Option given in Synapse 2.0 to turn lights on mouse on/off.So accurate, as this is my first gaming mouse, as and while playing some fps games i.e. csgo, TF2, i found that the accuracy is insanely accurate! Had to mess with some settings in Synapse to get to a setting i was comfortable with.Cons: my only con is the buttons on the left side, i find myself accidently pressing them from time to time lolOther than that, this is a great product especially if its gonna be your first gaming mouse. I will buy more Razer products in the near future.Highly Reccomended
5	1400284800	Great for gamers or even for casual users, very ergonomic, good rubberized sides for grip, nice coated cable. I definetly recommend this product.
4	1400198400	The mouse is made with high quality materials.The pros:It is not cheap plastics like many others in the market, this has high quality plastics and high durable grips, you can notice the instant you put your hand on it that it is a high quality product.Perfectly priced. This mouse is worth its price, you won't be disappointed.Best tracking technology to date. So far, the 4G sensor is one of the best in the market, making the cursor smoother and more accurate.Cons:Even if this is advertised to have good ergonomics, in my opinion, I didn't feel comfortable using it.The main problem being that I have small hands. The hump won't let me grab the mouse entirely thus making my hand uncomfortable after playing some hours.In general, this mouse is great for its price, not many mice out there are worth their price (cheap plastics being the main reason). This mouse is high quality.I'm pretty sure a lot of people will find it very comfortable but I wouldn't recommend it for people with small hands.Still, I'm very happy I bought this high quality product. Worth every peny.
2	1400198400	I received this mouse as a gift in early 2012. Its quite a comfortable mouse, but there are plenty of mouse that are cheaper and are equally comfortable. A couple weeks ago the mouse randomly stopped turning on. I have taken very good care of the product and there is no physical damage to it. I contacted razer support and they refuse to fix / replace the mouse as the warranty is up. I would not recommend this product as it is very expensive for a mouse and breaks so easily.
5	1400112000	The buttons are really responsive, it looks great, and the Synapse 2.0 software it comes with is easy to use.
5	1400112000	Lots of reviews on here claim the Razer software causes problems with the hardware, but I'm going on 3 weeks with not a single issue.The ergonomic design feels more natural than any mouse I've ever owned and I'm very happy with the performance!
5	1400112000	This is a very good productPerfect for gaming, very precise and comfortable.All reviews are saying truth: this is the best gaming mouse!!
2	1400025600	I had a mamba that I never used wirelessly and try as I might I never was able to find a better mouse; the weight, buttons and size were perfect.I thought the deathadder was basically a wired version of the mamba so when I wanted to get a mouse for my macbook I decided to just get a deathadder.Its bigger and lighter than the mamba and the buttons on the side are flatter, overall it just feels way cheaper than the mamba. Its still a great mouse feel-wise in the typical razor mold, though the biggest omission would be the sensitivity/polling selector isn&#8217;t present on the deathadder so you actually have to use software to change it instead of doing it on the fly with buttons.Out of the box though, due to the way mac configures mice, the mouse handles horribly. The only way to sort it out is to set acceleration though synapse. On the old mamba it stored settings in the actual mouse but in Synapse 2 its stored via the internet.. so take that into consideration. Cant log in? No settings for you. Person doesnt want you installing synapse on their computer, no settings!Synapse 2 freezes pretty much any time you do anything with a progress bar. Creating an account? It will freeze.. logging into your account? It will freeze.. doing an update.. it will freeze.. and when it freezes it forgets your mouse settings and the mouse becomes uncontrollable again.  Once your logged in and the ugly green cloud shows up in the task bar configure it and then IGNORE it. Do not click the &#8220;update available&#8221; notification, just be glad you eventually got logged in and can use your settings.If you thought maybe you could download the latest version from the site, you would be wrong. They have some old version that tries to update itself but when it does it crashes..  its the epitome of how not to do cloud applications.If you are on windows just don&#8217;t install synapse 2 and configure the mouse through windows and forget about any polling or gaming settings, its for the best; but why would you do that? Just get another mouse with actual features you can use... if you are on mac just DO NOT get this mouse at all.
5	1399680000	I use this mouse mainly for everyday use and causal gaming such as DayZ or BF4. These games don't require many keybinds, so I opted for the Deathadder and absolutely LOVE it. If you're playing a game such as WoW, Runescape3, LoL or other MMORPGs, you should look at the Razer Naga, it has 9 or so keybinds that really step up your game.The Deathadder is extremely simplistic with two side buttons, and I couldn't be happier with a mouse!
5	1399680000	This is the best gaming mouse I have ever used,  if you are in the market for a mouse that really fits your hand and tracks awesome,  this is your mouse.
3	1399680000	I was playing counterstrike like always and then mid match it just stopped clicking. I wasn't clicking too hard or anything, I'm a calm person. It just stopped working.
5	1399680000	I use my left hand to run my mouse while gaming and there's not many &#34;gaming mice&#34; out there that feel comfortable...the only thing I regret it doesn't have is a &#34;sniper shot&#34; button that automatically reduces sensitivity when careful aiming is needed...
5	1399680000	I got really tired of the low build quality of the Logitech mice I normally buy, and decided to try something from Razer!As far as I can tell right now, this mouse is really nice! The software isn't lacking in features or confusing like the Logitech driver software is either. All around a really great buy!
4	1399593600	I've had it for a little under a month now and it's been great. It's a big improvement over the wireless mouse I had. My only problem with it is that it is a bit large, I have medium sized hands, if you have small hands you will probably have an issue with this mouse. I see a lot of complaints about the software needed to use the mouse, but it was no big deal to me. Every button on the mouse feels good, and the side buttons are extremely well placed. The rubber grips are a nice touch and are not too annoying and the texture on the mouse is very easy to grip. I also read some things about the build quality, which I also disagree with. The mouse is just very light, and it makes it seem cheap, but it isn't.Bottom line is if you want a mouse with a good sensor and you have medium to large hands, this mouse is a good buy.
5	1399507200	So I first want to say that I have had this mouse for more than 6 month's and though i would finally give my review. For starters i absolutely love this mouse, I would say that i have average sized hands for an 18 year old and at first this mouse felt huge but then i ended up getting used to it and it is amazing to use. I own a Goliathus mouse mat from Razer and it goes very well with this mouse i am able to move my mouse freely and have no problems with accuracy. The two buttons that are on the side are in my opinion amazing I play a lot of games but one that i mainly play is League of Legends and having the buttons for hot keys helps me improve my game play. Yet some people might not use the buttons they are their and you can program them to do almost anything. I have used this mouse for long gaming sessions and honestly it does an outstanding job! Clikcing is something that i really like about the mouse, as well as the accuracy that I get out of it! To sum up my review I can say that if you are looking for an ergonomic mouse for a decent price look no further this mouse is amazing and I would definitely recommend it to fellow gamers.
5	1399507200	The best mouse that you can buy for gaming. It's simply fantastic. If you're searching for speed and precision this is the mouse you're looking for. The sensation on the hand is perfect, the ergonomy is all there.5 stars.
5	1399420800	The mouse works great unless you have a metal mouse pad surface.  I had an aluminium one from razer, and had to buy another mouse pad.  Now it works as I want it to.
2	1399420800	I've had this mouse for about 1 month, and one of the macro buttons is already not responding to being clicked. Like, you're press it, but it doesn't feel like it's being pressed and nothing happens.The software is ok, but kind of slow (I have a fast computer, that's not the problem). You have to have a Razer account, and it can be slow to sync new macros, but other than that it's pretty straight forward and simple.The mouse itself looks good, and feels good; but when it is being used on a surface that maybe has a couple things on it (I don't know, salt per se) it gets caught up somewhere on the bottom of the mouse and makes it feel like you got a rock in your shoe and now you're dragging it around on asphalt. I'm not sure why that happens, no other mouse I've owned has ever done that.The glowing is kind of nice, but you can't change the colors and it is always pulsing. Additionally, the mouse wheel is lit up, but it looks like a different shade of green which is very ... odd. Obviously just an aesthetic issue though.Overall, I'm not going to buy this mouse again, and probably not any lower-end Razer mice either. I'm not a very intense game and have not even gamed very much on this mouse, and 1 of the only 2 macro buttons is already messed up and unusable. That seems ridiculous to me.
5	1399420800	Great for the price and will not disappoint! Met my standards for a full fledged gaming mouse! Being able to adjust dpi and acceleration on the fly is a great selling point!
5	1399334400	This mouse is great. It took a little to get use to the palm shape it comes in. The responsiveness is perfect with no hiccups. The cable is fiber encased which is a nice little touch. The LED logo is nice but i kinda wish it didn't slowly pulse and just stayed solid but oh well. Otherwise its a great mouse.
5	1399334400	My husband and I just ha to replace our Deathadders 3500 dpi's after a four year stretch of heavy gaming abuse. We got our monies worth. I am certainly very happy to see that razer updated the deathadders to 6400 dpi, so we bought the same kind again. My husband's only complaint is that he wishes it was the blue lighting over the green. I could care less! I hope these last as long as our other ones did and be ready for some serious gaming abuse. :D
3	1399334400	This is my second DeathAdder, my first being the older 3.5K Blue version. Razer has made great improvements with the 2013 edition, and I considered this mouse to be my go-to 'weapon of war' for my avid gaming habit.However, its sensor sadly breaks down pretty quickly (under a year) and results in irregular cursor movement.The design is beautiful and I initially loved this product and considered it to be hands-down the best mouse I've ever used.The major caveat to buying this mouse is that you will most likely experience a decrease in performance over a relatively short period of time.
4	1399334400	Great mouse! I've been using a $10 logitech keyboard/mouse combo set for several years now and decided to upgrade to razer. Love the mouse. Very smooth and fits very well in my hand. I would give it 5 stars, but the mouse stops responding every now and then while I'm in game or just browsing the internet. Not sure if it's the mouse of my computer... Either way. Great mouse for the price.
1	1399334400	Razer was an up n coming hardware maker for gamers. They once were the cool, rebellious, &#34;have it your way&#34; type crew.Not any more -  with their whole attitude of forcing you to register and connect to their cloud so you can get full functionality from their mice (all...not just this one folks) they have lost a lot of market share from older, smarter gamers.Have a gaming rig that is not connected to the internet? Too bad. You will have basic, flimsy mouse functionality.The other big makers out there - Logitech, Corsair, SteelSeries, etc. do not FORCE this on you. You can simply install the software online or offline and customize to your heart's desire. No forced profile or online registration needed.There are just too many other better and unrestricted choices out there. I won't give them any more business.
5	1399248000	Love it, fits my hand perfectly.I'm 6 foot 6 so I was worried about my hands being to big for the mouse.
5	1399248000	This mouse has a great feel to it and is easy to use/set up. The only negative thing I can think of is the light on the mouse, which I find looks good, continues to flash even when my computer is off. It's enough to be annoying while I'm trying to sleep. While they do allow you to choose if you want the light on or off, I would like to have it on when the computer is on, but off otherwise. Other than that, there are no complaints.
5	1399248000	Even though Razer Deathadders ALWAYS starts double clicking in 2-3 months its worth it. 10/10 I buy it every time
5	1399248000	I Love this mouse, it is my 2nd one. nothing is wrong with the first one at all.the only disappoint is that I had to by a 2nd mouse to get the color I wanted. the first generation of the Death Adder was blue, I like the green.the new mouse also has a higher DPI I like that as well.
1	1399248000	It took me a while to get used to this mouse, once you get used to it, it is quite good. The DPI is really good. The build quality if really bad. Most Razer mice that my friends bought had bad build quality and I bought this eventhough they suggested me not to. It was a bad idea. Really bad build quality not built to last at all. If you are an aggressive gamer and like to push the keys very often and hard, then don't buy this mouse.Just don't buy it for gaming. its cheap and not durable. It is totally worth it to spend 30$ more and buy a decent Logitech mouse, as their build quality is way better.
2	1399161600	I recently replaced my four-year-old Razer DeathAdder 3G mouse with this DeathAdder mouse.  Its shape is very similar - which is good.  I really enjoyed my last DeathAdder.  I like the fluidity, motion, feel.  I use it for my work as well as for gaming.  It works well except for one very annoying flaw.  This latest DeathAdder is VERY sensitive to any static electricity.  It cuts out on me several times a day and has to &#34;reboot&#34; and be re-detected by the computer.  This process takes about 30 seconds or so, but is VERY annoying - especially when in the middle of something.  My last DeathAdder did not have this problem.  This most commonly occurs if I get up to get a copy off the printer or run another errand and return to the computer and grab the mouse to continue to work.  The cursor disappears and then about 30 seconds later I hear the beep of the computer detecting some hardware and then reloads the driver.  I am getting into the habit of touching the metal frame of my workstation before I touch my mouse - but even that doesn't always work.  This is the only mouse I have used that has had this problem with static electricity.  I installed my old DeathAdder as an experiment (even though the scroll wheel is worn out) and it didn't fail from static once.  I'm not sure what they changed about this DeathAdder over the last version, but it is a flaw that has forced me to knock several stars off the rating.
2	1399075200	I bought this to replace my dead Razer Mamba that died after a few years of excellent service.  I chose the DeathAdder because it's shaped just like the Mamba, and is only missing the wireless part, which I never used.  I set up the mouse, upgraded the firmware, installed &#34;Synapse 2.0&#34; and it seemed great at first.  Then I noticed that the mouse pointer would start jumping around erratically every now and again.  I calibrated the mousepad, reset calibration, lather rinse repeat, but the jerky motion would still randomly happen.  Razer support told me to try different PCs and different surfaces, which I did, but the problem remained.Fortunately, awesome Amazon customer service sent me a new one immediately at no cost (even before I sent the old one back) but unfortunately it had the *same* problem!  Again, I reset, re-calibrated, tried 3 different PCs, all kinds of mousepads/surfaces, but it would still freak out for a few seconds every hour or so.  It was so frustrating because when it worked it was perfect and felt great, but it's impossible to tolerate the mouse pointer randomly jumping 1500 pixels away at the slightest motion, or moving in the complete wrong direction.Sadly, I had to return it.  Fortunately again, Amazon took it back no problem and refunded my money.  Two stars because it's a really comfy, well-built mouse that may work for someone's setup, or maybe I just got unlucky -- twice.
5	1398902400	A little strange not seeing a red light under the mouse. Does what it is suppose to do. It's a keeper
4	1398816000	Okay this should be a 3.5 because...1) After waiting 3 weeks I end up getting the wrong mouse2) I had to return the mouse and wait another week for the correct mouse to come3) ended up getting the older version of this mouse.The only reason why i rated it this is high is because I got fully refunded and kept the mouse (woot free mouse BUT!). This would of been really cool if I didn't own the same mouse previously (wanted the newer one since the older deathadder was...getting old).
4	1398816000	Nothing wrong in terms of quality. I really enjoy the matte finish and thumb grip, but of course the intrusive program that comes with it takes a star away.
5	1398816000	Great for games. Great for your wrist. Great purchase. 5/5 would recommend.Best feature is the glowing LED Razer symbol over the palm grip.
5	1398816000	While I do occasionally play video games, I am primarily on a computer doing motion graphics and design work.  I use applications such as After Effects, Photoshop, Illustrator, and Cinema 4D to name a few, but I am sure you get the idea at this point if you are in the same trade.For the past few years I have been battling wrist pain on and off, but it has now reached a point where it is a serious problem.  I use both a Wacom tablet and a mouse, and while there is definitely relief when I use the tablet, I am forced to use the mouse when it comes to precision work.  I can't stand trackballs or vertical mice, so I needed to find a larger-than-usual mouse to prevent my hand from contorting inward too far.  After days of reading reviews and specifications, I decided on Razer's Death Adder - I couldn't be more pleased with my purchase.The mouse is perfect for the size of my hand (I wear a large / x-large glove), it is light, very precise, and its software is easily accessible within my menu bar to alter its sensitivity.  Additionally, you can create different profiles for each individual application you use, which includes sets of customizable macros that you can link to the three additional mouse buttons.I am on a Mac, running Mavericks 10.9.2, and had no issues whatsoever with installation.  The driver software is not stored locally per se, but rather linked to Razer's cloud so you can save settings, register products, etc.  You do not need to stay signed in to use the software, but you do need to create an account to download the software, and thus gain the full benefits to what the mouse offers; it's really no big deal, and when you register, they give you a 2-year warranty from the purchase date.  I'll hopefully never have to exercise that action, but it's good to know that they have faith in their products.If I HAD to complain about something (and I stress "had to"), it would be that it's wired; however, the cable is made from a very nice cloth material that does not coil and has yet to get in the way of me working.  Additionally, the mouse will not function if used on top of the Wacom tablet for whatever reason, which is odd, because this is the first time I've ever had that issue.  At any rate, it is not the end of the world and I'd rather have an extra cable and mouse pad on my desk than a scalpel taken to my wrist for carpal-tunnel surgery... then I'd really have something genuine to complain about.As stated above, I do not bring a "gamers perspective" to argue the use of this mouse so I cannot offer a valid opinion on its functionality in this manner.  What I can offer you is that if you are having wrist pain and are seeking an option to possibly alleviate some of those symptoms, I would say it is definitely worth a shot.
5	1398470400	This is by the far the best mouse I have EVER used. I've been using this mouse for about 1 year now and it is still like new. I LOVE IT!!!
4	1398470400	Had a Razer Copperhead laser mouse before I upgrade to this Deathadder and so far I'm not that impressed. Tracking on the optical sensor even though it has a high DPI isn't as smooth or great as the older Copperhead. Maybe I need to get used to it; it seems to get better over time. Can't remember if I had this same issue when I bought the laser mouse.
2	1398470400	I bought this product as a testing in comparison to the Logitech G500 (as a palm-wresting mouse).  The first thing I noticed was that it was much lighter and a lot lower to the desk.  It has a great glide to it and feels great in game.  I almost replaced my G500 with it.  However, there were a couple of things I just couldn't get past.  The first part was that compared to the G500, this mouse is only a 5 button mouse - the G500 is a 6 button mouse (actually 8, but two are used for DPI adjustment on the initial software).  I almost got by that as well, except that I sit in two voice chats at the same time on top of in-game voice com.  On to the next thing - I adjust my DPI while in game so that put the G500 at another advantage.  If I wanted to run the Deathadder - I had to run their Razer Synapse 2.0 software to even get the computer to detect the mouse, AND there was no way to adjust the DPI in game except for alt-tabbing out!Finally, and the most frustrating of everything on the DeathAdder.  It just FEELS cheap.  The plastic they used feels like it could fall apart at any moment.  There is no way to modify the weight of the DeathAdder either -  so that if I want to add a little extra weight, I can't.Unfortunately, there are just too many flaws with this product to even consider it as a viable option compared to other ones out there.  It's got decent comfort, but that's about it.
1	1398384000	Very comfy, good for big hands (not just gamers). However, as many people say, Razer has very limited QUALITY CONTROL capabilities so.. I don't know, if you have the time - take your chance. You may not get a lemon as I did.
4	1398297600	Ok for one thing that people are probably not aware or didn't think of is that a girl's got a smaller hand than the average male gamer. So I'm writing purely on that perspective in hopes of helping other women out there who has the same requirements as I did. Initially when I got the mouse, I have to admit that the size is bigger than I 'm used to. My old mouse used to be a really tine genius mouse which is a big difference to what I'm currently using. I'm relatively a tiny Asian woman so the mouse really takes up my whole hand. Most of the time I can only reach the one of the side buttons of the gaming mouse. So when I play dota or other games, I just use 1 side button, unfortunately the other one on top is just too far for me to reach.The weight of the mouse is slightly heavy but not too heavy that it takes me relative effort to move it. But I do recommend buying a gaming mouse for this as it helps mitigate the size of the mouse. My friend gave me the speed razer mouse pad which works pretty well with the mouse. I find there is a slight difference between that and my old standard mouse pad. I also noticed that it doesn't gather as much dirt as my old mouse. The top is made from plastic and so far it hasn't gathered dirt from the bottom and my clicking buttons.One thing to take note of is that you will have to get used to this mouse. No matter what kind of previous mouse you are using,  the size of the mouse takes getting used to. Than and how you grip the mouse. But once you do; the mouse is very great to use.
4	1398297600	The only issue I have is the large side buttons. I know I can disable them, but that would defeat the &#34;Forward/Back&#34; easy navigation. I don't think my thumb is all that big, but I keep pushing the back button by accident due to the location and size of the button. Otherwise, this would be a 5 star product.
1	1398297600	The Razer Deathadder i ordered was missing and in its place was a second hand Razer Naga, i could see finger prints and s*** on it
5	1398297600	Very good mouse. Fits average sized male hands. I have a feeling if my hands were a little bigger I wouldn't like this product as much. The tracking is good. Make sure you have a decent mouse pad to go along with this. Once you get your sensitivity set to your preference you will notice a difference coming from a basic mouse.
4	1398297600	My old Microsoft Intellimouse Explorer 4.0 died recently and I couldn't find anything suitably designed to fit my hand well.  The closest I could find was this Razer mouse.  As a gamer, I've known about Razer for some time and heard feedback on them from other folks.  After receiving this mouse and using it for several weeks, I can say this is a solid mouse with very few issues.The only downside I can see is the software for the device doesn't play nicely with KVM switches.  If, like me, you're not a fan of LEDs on everything you own, you may wish to disable the lights on the mouse.  You simply cannot do so without the software in constant contact with the mouse.  Considering I use my mouse a lot, this means having a second mouse for my KVM devices, which are really only used when testing customer equipment.  This is tolerable for me; an extra mouse takes up very little space and is only needed rarely anyhow.The pros of this device are a nice long cable, which is an exception nowadays, an excellent ergonomic design and solid feeling buttons.  It's a great device, really.  If the LED were able to be toggled off without a connection ot the computer directly, it'd earn 5 stars from me.
5	1398211200	This mouse is fantastic. Works very well and the quality is instantly noticed. Don't cheap out on a gaming mouse. Buy it right the first time.
5	1398211200	This mouse is extremely responsive and good for gaming purposes. Not too expensive and definitely worth the price. Good buy!
4	1398124800	Love this mouse, quick, light, responsive, everything that you would want in a gaming mouse. At first it looks fairly cheap, but after a year of use, it's quite sturdy
5	1398124800	I bought this to replace my old deathadder 3.5G which stopped working properly after 3 years.I was surprised to find how well they improved the deathadder since then. Sure the sensor is better but more importantly they changed the glossy sides to rubberized grips! The thumb buttons are more conveniently placed and your mouse does not get nasty (the gloss promoted a gunk of dead skin to get in the side buttons, I have a feeling this broke the old one.) The rubberized clickers and palm rest seem to have better traction than the old version, but this might just be because my old mouse is 3 years old and it wore off a little.The mouse is more or less the same comfortable product with more precise tracking which I honestly won't notice much, better grips, AND one small issue: the newer software.My issue with the newer software is that you need to register an email and password for it. The old software could do everything locally but the new one is cloud based so you can use your settings if you are on a friends computer (should your friend have a razer mouse) or if you just reinstall. This is a fine option but I just felt inconvenienced to spend time to sign up for something I won't really use. 3 minute time waste, not worth dropping a star.
3	1398038400	This mouse feels great in your hand. I owned more than 30 gaming mice over the years and this is by far the best by ergonomics and tracking. However, I can't say the same for build quality and software. It feels rather cheap feeling compared to very first DeathAdder model. Also, scroll wheel started to make cracking noises after a month of use. In addition to that, one of the side buttons started double clicking 80% of the time. This is not after a heavy use it's just during the 2 month window.Software: I don't know where to start... When it works it works but if something is wrong, you want to crush your mouse into the table.
5	1398038400	I assume most of the people will buy this for games and probably games like CS or other fps, and honestly I haven't improved too much over my old mouse. It's all about reflexes and muscle memory anyway. The poll rate is going to be neglected due to latency. Probably a moreless new mouse is going to give you pixel precision anyway (not skipping pixels). It might be able to track better faster movements, but at that point you're probably going to be a pro.Nevertheless, this mouse is really awesome, it holds perfectly, its light, smooth, precise. And for regular working say, designing, excel, programming etc, its good.Here I have a review on youtube, type in google: /watch?v=cBFerHKxlcE
5	1397779200	My old wireless Microsoft laptop mouse was slowly dieing so I decided to get a new one. I decided to go balls to the wall with the purchase of a new mouse and I ended up picking the deathadder. This mouse is super confortable. It has nice pinky finger rest that allows you to fully grip the mouse. Very ergonomic design. Scroll wheel is bomb.
2	1397779200	The mouse has rubberized sides.  After less than a month of use the rubber on the left side has started peeling.  I don't sweat profusely or use my mouse when my hands are unclean so this is really unfortunate.
1	1397692800	So an expensive mouse a gaming mouse thats suppose to be great. What happened in my case is the mouse worked fine for about a week with minor bugs. Day 1-3 it worked  fine no problems then it would not start up. Sometimes the green light would turn on others just not at all a simple hit to the mouse usually made it work. Then and well now i had to buy a Logitech mouse for about $30 at Staples and worked 1000000% times better no joke. This Razer mouse will Freeze my whole computer can't click on anything would have to restart in order for it to work again (my computer). And i thought it was my computer because its not new lol and has minor problems, but i used it on my macbook pro and it also froze that i would like my money back (not sure if i still can will check) and not recommended to anyone else. I'm sorry for a bad review but it's a bad product that i would not like anyone else to waste there money on.
4	1397606400	A really amazing mouse. It is so smooth to the touch, smooth on the speed and control and the little glowy green aura gives me goosebumps!The buttons are solid and feel almost weightless to the touch. Sensitive enough but not over sensitive to the commands. Really worth the money.THE ONLY MAIN AND ANNOYING PROBLEM I KEEP HAVING, WHICH IS WHY I ONLY GAVE 4 out of 5 stars, IS BECAUSE THE MOUSE RANDOMLY TURNS OFF!Yes, it does that. Quite a bit too, which is annoying. Maybe once or twice a day and it goes off for about 10-15 seconds. I am not sure if that is because it is communicating, syncing or restarting with the 'Razor Synapse 2.0' program or what. It gets very annoying during gameplay when you are focusing on an important task and 'POOF', no mouse control.Hoping they'll fix this in the future... Nevertheless, WORTH every penny! It arrived on time, tightly packaged and ready to roll!
5	1397520000	Works great with all the games that I have.I will definitely recommend this to any one.Thank you very much!
5	1397520000	My wireless Logitech G6 mouse is broken.  Having use Logitech mouses for years, I thought to myself it's time to try something new.I decided to go wired this time cuz I'm sick of recharging battery and heavy mouse.The mouse feels great, very ergonomic and light weight, the slightly rough plastic surface texture is more comfortable as it allows a bit more airflow and you are less likely to sweat and feel sticky.I'm not a hardcore gamer, but I don't have to be to make use of this mouse.I like Logitech's software a bit more since there's no need to connect to internet and stuff.also I wish the mouse can switch to other color of led to something like blue instead of Yoda's light saber green.. but, that's asking too much I think.Overall, very happy with this mouse =)
5	1397520000	I had the previous iteration, with the blue light.  After three years of heavy use, the left button finally started misreading clicks; I'd get a double click on the PC for a single click on the mouse. I don't game on the PC; but, I work with this mouse, 40+ hours a week.  It's comfortable and a pleasure to use.  I'm using it without the Razer software, plug and play.
5	1397520000	This mouse fits well in my hand and is a great mouse to have. I haven't had a single problem with mine so in my opinion this is perfect for me.
2	1397433600	Fits well in the hand, responsive, etcScroll wheel broke after the first month (conveniently just outside of the replace warranty).
5	1397433600	This is the best gaming mouse I have ever had. The grip feels very nice and comfortably tucks under your palm.
5	1397433600	This mouse is the most comfortable mouse i have ever used. It's shape took a little to get used to, but after that, it felt like holding a cloud. It's very light, has very responsive buttons, and two additional side buttons that I use to adjust the DPI. I would recommend this mouse to anyone who is looking for a super comfortable mouse that can be used for both gaming and every day work.
5	1397433600	It is a gift for my brother, and he likes it so much and throws away his old mouse lol
4	1397433600	If you're looking for a nice gaming mouse, you should get this mouse. Its pretty awesome. I would recommend this mouse to a friend. This awesome came pretty fast and it also has a nice box.
5	1397433600	League of Legends player here! This mouse is perfect for playing MOBA's. Extremely accurate and feels really good to hold. Love the side grip on it too!
5	1397347200	Great mouse. Sensitive, perfect accuracy, confortable and beautifull. But the better is the price. This is a very powerfull mouse, almost like the razer's tops, but very cheap in comparison. It have less buttons, but still worth it!
1	1397347200	Three mice and one keyboard. All failed to last even six months. My most recent Razer product was this mouse, which I purchased locally from the main local computer retail store. At the time I paid $75.I'd been out of gaming for some time, so it's mainly been used for mild computing. Over the last two weeks I started playing a new game. In the middle of a game the left mouse button literally broke. You can hear a piece rattling around inside and the button doesn't click or anything.Before this I bought a mouse and keyboard together and within the first three months the keyboard crashed my computer and stopped working. After redoing the pc, the mouse died two weeks later.And before that I had another mouse which died in the first three months.This all makes me not understand how Razer is so popular. I mean, I've had another company's mice exclusively aside from Razer and they have never failed. In fact, they're still working today. Even the ones that are ten years old. I would love to recommend Razer products, but would you in my shoes?
5	1397260800	This is my first gaming mouse and it is absolutely amazing.  When I first unboxed it and set it up I felt as though it was incredibly large but after a couple of days it felt like it was just an extension of my hand.  The matte finish makes it difficult to leave smudges  and the side grips are quite comfortable; not to mention the green lights look awesome!I have had the mouse for over a month now and everything is still perfectly functional as expected.  I highly recommend this mouse as I have had no problems with it thus far.  I think Razer has earned a new permanent customer in me.TL:DRPros+highly responsive+comfortable in hand+looks greatCons-none at the momentWell done Razer!
2	1397174400	1) I really like the way the mouse feels, and it is very light and glides along my desk very effectively.2) There seems to be something wrong with the way it tracks my (wood) desk, as it periodically (once per minute or so) gets confused and refuses to move the cursor for about one second. This hasn't happened with other mice, even cheapo 9 dollar ones.3) The Synapse software is awful. If you want to configure it to have different settings in different programs, you *can* do that (although it is awkward and each program has to be configured totally separately---you have to set the acceleration and keybindings separately for each application, etc.), but an incredibly annoying message pops up in the upper-left corner of the screen that says &#34;PROFILE 1&#34; or &#34;PROFILE: FIREFOX&#34; or whatever. There is no way to turn this off, and the only workaround is to set the profile names to all spaces, but then you can't tell which one is which.4) There is also a really dumb bright green icon that HAS to be in the menubar. There is no way to turn this off.The software is really really disappointing, considering that the hardware is quite nice! I am very unhappy with this purchase and am going to see if it is possible to return.
5	1397174400	I have owned a Razer mouse since 2004, one of the original Vipers. After about 10 years of use as a daily and a gaming mouse, though the accuracy was spot on, the left mouse button finally started to die. I would consider myself quite hard on my equipment, having moved multiple times, and I prefer heavy-duty keyboards and mice. That being said, I was certain I wanted a new Razer, so I ordered the DeathAdder.I have not been disappointed.It is highly accurate, which I was expecting, and the feel is quite nice as well. The green glow is not overpowering like the red used to on my Viper. The sensor is infrared, so no more blinding laser beam class light when you put it on glass and move off the mouse pad.Razer equipment has treated me well over the years, having built my own gaming rigs and used them at work in IT and other support positions, and they have lasted longer than many of my PCs and Laptops, let alone keyboards, mice, or monitors. Highly, highly recommended.
5	1397088000	This is my second one of these mice ... mouses... meeces?!  I'm not entirely sure if my current problems are with my (now 4-year-old and still very solid)  first one, or if I'm handling it differently (which seems unlikely?!) -- but the (very) old one now seems to highlight whole words when I just want to place the cursor someplace.  I did turn off the blinkie light on the mouse after the first few days -- it kept pulling my attention away from the screen.VERY comfortable. I don't use the forward and backward web -page buttons, and am annoyed when I accidentally hit one. I use the roller wheel a lot.  Love this mouse!
2	1397088000	This is the second Razer Deathadder mouse I purchased over the past two years and both developed scroll wheel issues. After one month of use the scroll wheel on this mouse started making a loud squeaking noise, it seems that wheel is not properly lubricated or situated. I've used several different brands and the Razer is the only brand that I've had this issue with. Will no longer be purchasing these until they can improve the build quality. (Recommend a Logitech or Anker gaming mouse instead).
4	1397001600	I bought this for my son.  He's a full time gamer.  He said the speed was key because you can accomplish goals in competitive games increasing your skills.
5	1396915200	Great mouse. After reviewing many and even purchasing a couple others, this one wins. Extremely comfortable, very snappy buttons and sensitivity is concise.
5	1396828800	This was purchased as a gift for my grandson along with the keyboard and mouse mat.  He loves all of the items.  He says they all work great and they look good!
5	1396828800	its a little big for my hand but i am adjusting to it real quick atm. extra buttons are nice!
5	1396742400	Just like when I hit amazon rating for 5 stars it says I love it, thats pretty much what I think about this mouse. Its a really nice mouse, I havent tried it on an FPS but I play my mobas and use my computer for almost everything else. Its really comfortable and nice.
3	1396656000	Keep in mind that I have been using razer products for years. I have used their very first deathadder that I loved very much. However, I decided to upgrade and go with the deathadder 2013. At first it was okay and worked. 2 months down the line the left click button broke. Before that I started to get hand pains and wrist pains from the mouse which I have never ever gotten before. I also felt like the mouse drivers were horrible and that the mouse honestly wasn't as accurate as I was told it was. Fast forward I got the replacement and having the same issues with in accuracy. Still have been having hand/ wrist pains.  2nd mouse felt like it had tracking issues and or some type of acceleration and a bit of some prediction even though it stays it doesn't.  I sent the second deathadder back and purchased the steelseries rival.  Honestly I felt like the steelseries is a much better mouse. Then again maybe my hand just doesn't like palming the mouse. Also the new deathadder feels heavier and not as smooth on the mousepad (razer mouse pad).
5	1396656000	Works great, feels great! (I have big hands, and finding a good mouse is hard)I Wish they would let us save the setting to the mouse, so we would not have to use synapse...anyway, you can have per-game profiles just like with the other razer products, and adjust DPI, polling rate, and button config per game.Also it works on linux without ANY issues (aside from you can not remap keys/change dpi)
5	1396396800	If you are looking for an MMO mouse with a lot of buttons and flexibility, look elsewhere.  This mouse was designed with one simple purpose:  control.  When you crank up the DPI, it simply flies.  When you are looking for finer controls, drop the DPI and watch this thing shine.  It retains a good speed and tracking at all times.  It's a BIG mouse, and I can easily rest my hand in a palm grip when feeling lazy, but also capable of comfortably switching to fingertip grip when I want to get a little better control.  The pads on the bottom are smooth when you need to be fast, and grip when you need fine control.  For it's size, it's about the perfect weight; heavy enough to stay on the mouse pad, but light enough to lift-off if ever needed.  I would recommend this mouse to anyone looking for an FPS, RTS, Adventure/Casual gaming, and general computing mouse.
5	1396310400	I was extremely wary of the Razer Synapse software/driver combo. I understand it has been problematic for others. But it was no hassle for me and my Windows 7 PC. I like that I can turn off all or some of the lights on it.
5	1396310400	I bought the DeathAdder by Razer and have been using it now for playing Starcraft 2 and other daily computer uses. I was skeptical about having another mouse with a cord but I bought the Razer mouse bungee to go with it and it is just like having a wireless mouse. The reason I wanted wireless was because I didn't wan't any lag. My last mouse was a wireless and I could tell there was a slight lag when I clicked on buttons. It drove m nuts. The DeathAdder fits my hand appropriately and you can order both right handed and left handed versions. The quality is top notch. Even if you don't use this mouse for gaming, it's still a really nice mouse. My wife loves it and she only surfs the web and does school work.I have zero complaints from amazon or about the mouse. 5 out of 5 stars on this one.
5	1396224000	This is the first product from Razer that I bought and I am in love with this mouse. It is light and the grip makes it easy to hold on to. The green light also makes it look really awesome. It's not too expensive and it works great for my LoL sessions. I am completely satisfied with this product and will consider buying future gaming items from Razer!
2	1396137600	After 3 or 4 months of use, it is malfunctioning left click button double clicks regularly on single click, had to disconnect mouse from USB every 2 to 3 days. I expected a better mouse after years of using Microsoft Intellimouse explorer mice. Since they don't make them anymore I would try a real gaming mouse.
5	1396137600	This thing is great. Light and responsive. But notably one of the only left handed gaming mouses out there. There are better gaming mice but no better left handed ones.
5	1396051200	The Razer DeathAdder is the first Razer product I have ever used. Instantly I can feel the difference from my Logitech M305 that costed around $20.The great thing about this mouse is it's feel. The fit is pretty snug, but I have pretty large hands. (I'm 5'11&#34;). I'm not exactly sure about the mouse quality wise compared to other gaming mouses, but I like it. Note that the Razer Deathadder has this rubber-y feel where your thumb is. The quality of the cable is also really good. I'm sure it won't snap or anything unless you have secret animals chewing away at night.When I first plugged it in the mouse was so smooth. For FPS games this might have to be adjusted since you can easily miss your shots. For League of Legends it's a great setting imo.When I bought this mouse it was on sale. 51.99 without the tax (shipping was free!). Completely worth it if you have the money and you're really interested into a new mouse.
5	1396051200	I had the old DeathAdder mouse (3.5G 3500 DPI and no back lighting) and I decided to get this mouse after a year with my old mouse. So far I love it. The amazing range for DPI makes this mouse easily custom. The buttons on the side are extremely good and highly responsive. They have an almost mechanical feel (I have a feeling they are mechanical). The lighting is also very well done so that is a big bonus.Overall a great product and I'm very happy that I got it.
4	1395878400	The DeathAdder replaced a Mamba Elite that died after only seven months.  Couldn't bring myself to fork over that much cash again so soon so I purchased the Adder. The Adder is a good value and a very good gaming mouse. It's too light in weight for my taste.  I prefer a mouse with more heft.  Besides that there are no other issues.  I'm just praying it lasts longer than it's predecessor.
5	1395878400	this mouse is great. I use it with one of the large gaming mouse pads by razer and the precision I get is awesome. I play fps like Counter strike and battlefield where getting the first shot on target is imperative and this mouse allows me to be far quicker than my opponents. the software (razer synapse 2.0) is fine on my watch. I use it to make seperate profiles for all my games and my pc is always connected to the internet so that doesn't affect me. the lighting on the mouse is nice but I wish there was a way to keep both on all the time. or create different lighting profiles (like flashing, pulsing scroll, etc.)tl;dr if you are looking for a solid entry-mid level gaming mouse this should definitely be in your top three choices.
5	1395878400	I've used a lot of gaming mice(G9x, Sensei, G700, Razer Naga, Razer Mamba) and I have to say this has the most accurate laser I've seen so far. Before purchasing i was a little hesitant to get this mouse since it has no on board memory, but have no fear Synapse 2.0 works great.
5	1395792000	Great mouse, being left handed I've always had issues with the way most mice are designed, molded for the right hand, well finally I have one that fits my hand.  Its responsive and I took to it right away.  It was a little strange at first that the buttons were reversed, but they can be swapped.  It is corded but it has a fairly long cord, wireless would have been nice, but obviously less lag problems with a corded mouse so its a trade off.
5	1395792000	I've always hated razer products. They feel cheap and gimmicky and in the past they've been unreliable. However the 2013 Edition DeathAdder is now my favorite mouse by far. I bought 2 extra just to store for the future.
5	1395705600	Even though I don't have enough experience with different mouses, I kind of know what I want from a gaming mouse.Pros:-The clicks are really good throughout hours of gaming-The mouse has good arch and size that makes it feel like I can control the mouse really well, and also there's no stress on  fingers.-Grip on side actually helps too, so much that I don't notice it until i actually think about it-Cord is good,doesn't get in way of mouse movementsCons:-Doesn't work well/doesn't work on some surfaces, best if there's a mat to play on. I use the steelseries mousepad and it has very smooth movement/sensoring.-Mouse wheel starts to squeak after a month or so, it seems like it's not oiled well. Very annoying >.&lt;
4	1395705600	Don't get me wrong. This mouse feels great in your hand. The design is spot on from the rubber grips on the side to the textured plastic mouse buttons to the shape. That being said, the scroll wheel is a little stiff. I like a wheel that rolls a bit this one stops dead as soon as you let off and while you feel the &#34;clicks&#34; they're soft. That's probably just going to take some getting used to. This mouse is incredibly light. I was using a Logitech M705 before which feels incredibly solid and has just the right amount of heft if not a little bit too much. I think the DeathAdder could use a bit more weight but it still feels like a great mouse.
5	1395705600	The mouse works great, fits nicely in my hand, and the software for setting up the key functionality was very straightforward.I would definitely recommend this mouse to anyone who wants to step up their online gaming.
5	1395705600	I just got this mouse today, and I immediately knew that I had made the right choice. It is comfortable and extremely responsive (especially compared to my old Logitech mouse). I've heard a lot of hype about this mouse, and so far it seems to live up to it.One thing that I love (and this may be weird) is the braided cord. Right out of the box it unrolled reasonably well (I hate when cords for new electronics keep curling up to their factory twist-tied state for a few days/weeks until they finally straighten out). Most importantly, it doesn't seem to get all stiff and impair mouse movement like other mice I've used tend to do (especially when it's cold). How has this not become an industry standard feature?
5	1395705600	fits in my hand better then any other mouse ive owned and is just great feel and responds when and where you want it too. perfect for SC2 :)
5	1395619200	Since using this mouse I've found all other mice to be inadequate. Which kind of stinks, because wireless mice are really convenient, but I hate using mine now because it doesn't respond or feel as nice as this one does.
2	1395619200	This mouse has  very little &#34;hump&#34; on top that would make it more comfortable to large handed gamers.  Also I could not reduce the speed and acceleration of the mouse to click on icons in games.  Ii had the control panel and Lazer software set way down and either the mouse was too fast on games and then too slow in windows.  I gave it to my son.
5	1395619200	I got this mouse for a gift because for a while I was using some cheap travel mouse with my computer. Getting my bachelors in fine arts with a major in Game Art and Design I have very little money lol and I needed something that would suit my need to sit at a computer for hours at a time whether its using Maya, Photoshop, UDK, Unity or gaming, I also am a very big guy so I always had to claw my mice but I find that extremely uncomfortable! This mouse is perfect for all that! its very large mouse so it fits my large hands perfectly, it slides around on your mouse pad like butter and has a good weight to it, the clicking response is very nice and personally I love higher sensitivity and the options of this mouse are amazing! I highly recommend getting this mouse! unless you need a mouse that has 100 buttons this is the mouse for you! you wont regret it!
4	1395532800	First off, this is a great mouse. Mine was packaged as expected, installed hassle free, works perfectly fine with synapse 2.0 (which you only need to set up once...ever), and hasn't failed me yet. I've had mines for about 4 months so far, and I will update if anything bad happens during my experience with it.This mouse has one 2 flaws worth noting, thought they don't detract from the overall package your're receiving.1) The rubber side grips.Now, this is a great concept, but all together, it would of been better-off if the sides were the same matte material as the rest of the mouse. The reason is that if your fingers get any level of sweaty moisture on them, the rubber grips become slippery and do the exact opposite of their intended purpose (make your mouse slide down when you lift it up).Either it's the type of rubber used, the pattern ingrained into the grips, or both, but when you grab the mouse (claw grip, or claw grip variations) after a while of playing, or just on a hot day, the thin moisture layer on your fingers make the rubber parts feel overly slippery compared to the rest of the mouse which feels dry. The grips are a good concept, but their purpose is retarded by any level of finger moisture and make handling your mouse feel annoying.However, if you're the kind of person that grips the mouse hard and firm, then this shouldn't pose any issues hopefully.2) The scroll wheel.Now this may either be a pro or a con depending on your personal preference, but the scroll wheel is definitely not as tactile as i'm used to. I expected to feel every precise click of the wheel while going through the motion, but the actual feel of the scroll itself is quite soft. It's VERY quiet, and almost feels a bit mushy. Ii found sometimes if i scrolled to switch weapons in-game, i would scroll too much or too little to reach my target weapon. This is a rare occurrence however, but your muscle memory will need time to adapt if you're used to tactile feedback from the scroll wheel during precise moments. (e.g. scrolling to the second or third weapon during a gun fight)However....Other that those points, the right/left/middle clicks feels solid, the lighting effect is cool, and it's definitely not as &#34;neon&#34; and saturated as it appears in the pics. Its A LOT nicer in person, trust me. It's a really sleek looking mouse. The side buttons work perfectly, and will do anything you want them to (using synapse). I personally keep the mouse in a single profile setting where i use the side buttons for &#34;Melee&#34; and &#34;Grenade&#34; attacks, however, you can have multiple profiles to switch between, and you only need to set them up once.Nothing is wrong with Synapse 2.0 + Deathadder 2013. I can't account for any past issues with other razer devices over previous years, but currently, these two work just fine, and iv'e had absolutely no issues with the set-up.
4	1395532800	Nice ergonomic design. Sits comfortably in the hand. Clicks very nicely. Side buttons are nice too. Especially when web brows for going back a page or forward. Only complaint would be the mountain of packaging that came with it(seemed a little much to me.) Otherwise nice and comfortable perfect for gaming.
2	1395532800	All the specs on the mouse are great for gaming. Read other reviews if you want to get more feedback on that aspect. Here are my issues with the mouse.1. The led lights get annoying after the cool factor wears off. If you accidentally leave it plugged into a powered usb port, it will stay lit even if the computer is off. Which can get annoying at night when you climb into bed, and see your ceiling blinking blue. There is a option to turn it off if you download additional Razer software, but that's only for when the computer is on.2. This mouse gets DIRTY. It's made from a rubber like material which attracts and holds onto everything from your hands.  All of which builds up quickly on the mouse, in addition to the slits. So be prepared to have to clean it off fairly often, which is not an easy task.
5	1395446400	It's lightweight, it's slick, it's well made, and it's easily the best mouse I've ever used. I've tried several Razer mice, including the Naga(s) and Orochi. It fits in the hand perfectly, the tracks well, and there's simply nothing wrong with it. Yeah, it lacks the bells and whistles of other mice, but for the money, this is the best mouse on the planet.
5	1395446400	If you are coming from the 3.5g, the 2013 deathadder IS LIGHTER. yes that's right, so if you play fps games, you are going be overshooting for a couple week if you have been using your old deathadder for a long time. Other than that, all the other reviews are pretty accurate. Yeah having synapse running in order for the configurations to work but that really isn't a huge deal. synapse doesn't take that much of a load on your ram.  Does synapse so it's job in properly configuring your mouse? Yes. I frequently play from my laptop to my desktop and having the features and profiles transfer over whenever I play them is nice. Now as to why your mouse settings are saved onto a cloud and rather than the mouse itself, I have no idea and doesn't quite make sense. But if you are going to review a product, you review it for what it has, and not what it doesn't have.It's a great working mouse with synapse that get's the job done (at least for me it does).
5	1395446400	It's GreatIt's just a bigger more than my hand but not have a problemI hope it ok with me
5	1395446400	This mouse has everything I want for a mid-level mouse for a great price. Two side buttons for versatility, but without a lot of extra buttons all over to get in the way. Easy install, intuitive software, and a great fit. Most mice I've used have been too small to actually rest my hand on and I moved them with my fingers, but this one is really well contoured; my fingers can lay down on the front two buttons without rubbing against the mousepad.Best of all, the sensitivity adjustment is very customizable, from 100 to 6400 dpi, which gives a great range. The only downside to this mouse is that there is not a dedicated set of buttons to switch the sensitivity, but the two thumb buttons could be used for that if desired.
5	1395446400	This mouse is amazing! the way it feels, and the comfort is like nothing ive had before. This is well worth the money!
5	1395446400	It's comfortable and perfect for gaming. So far has worked in any table surface. The mouse has a very nice build and even the cord it's really high quality, I don't see it breaking for a big while.
1	1395446400	I loved it for the first bit but then out of nowhere it started becoming unresponsive. It would stop working for a second, then work, which was really annoying. Now I have reached the point where it stopped working completely. I really don't recommend buying this mouse.
2	1395360000	Major issues with games not tracking the mouse movement till I held btn 4 on the thumb side. Tried on 2 different macs and os versions. Had issues on pc with left click not working till I opened up task manager and then closed it. Logging out and back in also solved that issue.
1	1395360000	I have an old copperhead and the buttons are having issues.  I have had the mouse for a few years, so I believe Razer products to be durable.  In searching for a replacement, I found this mouse.  The specifications are good and I was ready to make my purchase until I saw the posts about having to open and account with razer to configure your mouse.  Why is that necessary?  The configuration file is tiny and can easily be stored on the device.  There is absolutely no reason to be FORCED to give razer your personal information and keep the configurations on their servers..Just to  be sure of this requirement, I contacted razer about the online account and here's their response:Hi there Ali,My name is Raymond and I will be assisting you today.From your last email I can see that your wondering if you need to create an account and an internet connection to use our deathadder drivers?The answer is yes. You will need to download Synapse 2.0 which is our cloud based driver solution for our software and create an account.However, you will not need a permanent internet connection. Once you create an account and login you can then select offline mode.If you do have any questions please let us know and we will be happy to assist you further.Best Regards,Razer Support Team
3	1395360000	I love the neon green glow. Gives it a matrix feel to it. The plastic isn't glossy, it has a rough texture to it that I love. The mouse is contoured for a right hand, so if you're left handed, get the left handed version!For the mouse, the scroll wheel has that jagged bumpy-clock when you scroll, and the buttons are definitely clicky. (Though not as much so as a logitech.) The only thing that brings this amazing product down is the software. I don't know why it forgets my programing, or why it randomly changes the settings. (I made the shortcuts so that you simply CAN'T hit the keys by mistake, and kept only one profile and it still has the original DELETED profile!) Though I hate saying this, unless razor fixes these issues, I would suggest against a razor.Works on mac, but do expect the issues to be even worse.
4	1395273600	My Death Adder is far far better than my old cheapo wireless logitech (not all logitech are bad but the one I got was super cheap).  Very comfortable, precise and highly customizable. TBH i wanted the wired/wireless mamba but that feature was going to practically double the price.  The cord is rather long though so I haven't had trouble with it.
1	1395273600	This mouse is great. It feels comfortable to wrap your hands around. The smooth surfaced makes it feels like a baby but. The clicking is fine.The only thing I hate about this is the scroll wheel. There is a rattle or squeek from it. When you scroll up, it will make noise. It is SOOOO annoying like when I use CAPS. I return the first one. The customer support is awesome. Turnaround time for return and getting refurbish mouse is 1 week. Note that I bought new within 3 months and now I have a refurbish mouse. Who knows how long this will last.?Razer made this gaming mouse to live up to its annoying name. DeathAdd-another mouse. Recommend you try another mouse brand.
3	1395273600	I love the mouse except for the click that the scroll wheel now includes. The old model (blue) had such a smooth scroll wheel. This model clicks loudly as you scroll up. Not sure why they added this.
5	1395273600	I have used this product for 2 day and I should say, I am overall very impressed. I got this mouse to play Minecraft and some League of Legends. Here are some of the pros and cons of the mousePros- Very Accurate (Optical Mouse)- Super easy clicks- Lighting is good- Grips are very good- Scrolling wheel is very good- 6400 dpi is high for a optical mouse- The software is easy to use- The Deathadder fits in my small hands- Very comfortable and ergonomic- Hyperesponse buttons feel goodCons- I think the only con is that the teflon feet is a little smallIn conclusion, I think that this is a great mouse. The pros outweigh the cons obviously. The mouse went way above my expectations. I would recommend this to all of my friends and anyone looking for a good quality gaming mouse.Btw the Anchor mouse does not compare to this at all
5	1395187200	Great mouse, I use it for gaming, it is really good, I feel i got better skill now, thank razor!
5	1395187200	I reviewed the DeathStalker keyboard and mouse pad already, and if you read those reviews, you'll know I think these are both awesome and worth buying as a set.  Although a little more pricy than your average mouse, the design and packaging is incredible.  The braided cord is very cool, and you'll enjoy the way the mouse feels in your hands. Overall, a very good purchase.
5	1395187200	Where do I even begin. This mouse is the most balanced, premium feeling mouse I have ever owned. I have to say, I love this mouse. This piece of equipment is a work of art. I recommend this mouse to both Hardcore Gamers, and the everyday user as well! that's how great this mouse is! I will admit that I used an old Logitech mouse beforehand, but there is no looking back now. I can't imagine my computer life without this mouse! Thank you Razer, for an amazing product, and this has left a mark on me. I'm recommending this mouse to all of my friends. Once again, Thank you!
3	1395187200	The mouse feels good and is very responsive when using the Windows drivers.The Razer drivers on the other hand are not digitally signed and therefore not supported by windows. The Razer software that installs the drivers does not account for this and therefore is pretty much useless.The support site does not address the driver problem. I searched Google and found A LOT of others who have had this problem and they complain about the software for all Razer products.
4	1395100800	I went from a Logitech MX500 to this guy and I love it so far.This mouse feels more accurate with acceleration off and the buttons are noticeably more responsive. I was skeptical about this using an optical sensor instead of laser like most of the gaming mice use today but the optical sensor actually feels more natural than my laser did.I can definitely recommend this especially for the price. I really feel like you are getting a lot for the amount you pay.
5	1395100800	Works very smoothly and very happy with performance.  Wish it was a tad bit bigger but still a good buy
4	1395100800	This mouse works great. Razer Synapse is great. Ergonomics are pretty good. Price is a bit high. Doesn't fit inside Razer's own mouse carrying pouch very well.
5	1395100800	I bought this mouse because I am a left handed player.  I was a little hesitant after reading the reviews because people said that the order was switched on the left and right click.  This was not a problem for me to adjust to at all and I found it to actually be intuitive.  Before buying this mouse I was using a no-name ambidextrous mouse with a claw grip.  This mouse is much bigger and i find myself from time to time using the claw grip (old habits die hard), as appose to the palm grip.  The other thing to note is that you need a mouse pad without any kind of wrist padding.  I had one that was small and had a gel wrist pad.  I replaced it with a steelseries qck from bestbuy for $10 which i would also recommend buying.
5	1395100800	I needed a new gaming mouse as the cord on my old one had long since started to fray (it was woven, just like the DeathAdder's). It amazes me how well the DeathAdder fits in my hand. The buttons have the perfect amount of &#34;give&#34; to them. The green lighting makes the mouse look awesome. If it annoys you there is an option to turn the lighting off in the Synapse software, among all useful settings for the mouse (sensitivity, etc). I currently use it on my Mac, but will definitely be using it when I finish my PC build. I would definitely recommend the DeathAdder to any gamer looking to get an amazing mouse that won't break the bank.
5	1395100800	Finally a quality product for the left handed person. It fits the hand with comfort and gives good control. The glowing light is a cool bonus.
5	1395014400	Awesome mouse with a comfortable shape.  Easy to set up and woks great with Macintosh.  The braided cord is a nice touch and the customizable buttons make 3D modeling much quicker.  Highly recommended.
5	1395014400	This mouse fits my hand perfectly.  It allows for precision and quick control, effortlessly.  It is the only mouse you will ever need.
2	1395014400	Hi, I am an avid gamer, and I love this mouse, with the exception of one problem. The software is absolute garbage. It often crashes and leaves me helpless, often when I am in a very stick situation. I really wish the software would be fixed, it is dragging a great mouse down.
5	1394928000	I love how it fits in my hand and makes me feel like a king holding a scepter. #bestgamermouseever &#60;3
4	1394928000	Is a great gaming mouse I just wish it was taller it longer. It may just be my large hands though.  Either way you won't be let down. Love the Razer software too.
4	1394928000	I had a little issue with amazon, so I ended up purchasing this locally, but it's the same mouse.Pros:Fits really nice in my handClicks nicelyScroll wheel is very controllable. It doesn't scroll too easily, or too tough.Side buttons are just clicky enough to where you won't do it by accident but it's easy.Cons:It feels almost too grippy, and kind of rough when you first use it (it goes away)As shown in the picture, it can feel weird after the wheel because there's a large empty space.
5	1394928000	I bought this mouse after doing a lot of research about what mouse could fill my needs as an everyday mouse while still being a great choice for my needs as a gamer.  I am not disappointed.I have not owned a Razer product since two of the original Boomslang mice many years ago.  It was incredible, but in my need to find the next best thing, for whatever reason Razer fell off my radar and I had recently pigeon holed them as some sort of niche company that offered hardware that had features that seemed superfluous and a little too hardcore.  I decided to give it a shot after reading so many good things about it from a performance perspective as well as value.  The Wire Cutter website's &#34;Best Gaming Mouse&#34; roundup really made me decide to take the plunge although I also considered the Roccat Savu.First the Pros:Build/Ergo  The Mouse is light, but not in a cheap way mind you. Everything exudes quality about the device and it seems like a custom weapon molded to your hand.  It has a right hand bias that just ensures that your digits lay exactly where they should and you can tell ergonomics were both brilliantly thought out and implemented.  There are small rubber like grips that flank the lower sides and really help to maintain a light pressure to keep tension loose and encourage the device to become an extension of your  hand.  There are ever so slight depressions where your finger tips make contact with the buttons yet it somehow seems to have a shape that allows for experimentation and accommodation of different mouse holding types like claw, palm, finger tip, sweep etc.  My hybrid palm/claw loves it.  I have smallish hands (pause for giggles) despite my 6'4 220 frame and it works well.Looks:  The thing is slick looking.  It looks formidable on my desk and the soft green glow of the mouse wheel and pulsing logo just really advertise the fact that it means business.  It is a matte black that is a high quality plastic that reminds me of some sort of interior plastic your would see in a high end European sports sedan.  (Ridiculous analogy maybe, but it does.)Function:  Hyper responsive buttons are claimed by all but from what I can tell, this takes it a step further.  They all work flawlessly.  Example:  Press the wheel button on your current mouse.  Does it click easily without scrolling and still have indents for the scroll that keep it usable?  This one nails it.  All mice make left and rights click well but the wheel is a tough one to get.  Also, the thumb buttons are made in a way where you can instantly click the forward or back without moving your thumb.  The lower meaty part of my thumb lays just right on the back button with the upper tip section of my thumb laying right on the forward button and both click intuitively.Cons:  I am really nitpicking here but I wish you could do more with the light.  You can disable each one in the software but it would be nice to adjust intensity and/or pulsing aside from just the light switch type on/off.  Pretty minor, but it would be perfect with it.Also, much has been said about the Synapse 2.0 implementation and I honestly don't get the fuss.  I believe that the early original release had some issues but it works flawlessly for me in this latest iteration.  You don't have to run it either unless you want to use the game specific profiles and bells and whistles.  It updates firmware, it has a slick interface that works well and it is resource gentle to the point of seeming non existent.  If you are worried about Razer Co. tracking the nefarious web sites you visit or trying to start your microwave with it, I don't have an answer for you but I think your paranoia might be more sensitive than even 3500 DPI.Find a better optical (its still laser tech mind you for those who may be scared off by the term &#34;optical&#34;, and arguably the better of the two for gaming) mouse at this price point, I dare you.  You can find some twenty dollar job that will do the trick if you don't mind 2nd rate materials and questionable quality control with Teflon feet that come misaligned or not stuck down.  I feel like I deserve a good mouse.  This is one of the biggest parts of a hobby that I love and while I don't see any sense in buying some Two Bill device that looks like a transformer that got stuck mid change, this Deathadder strikes the perfect balance of being one of the best mice you can buy at a price that is less that the cost of most games.  Get it, you won't regret it.
5	1394841600	I was looking for an upgrade for my logitech G5 and have been with logitech so much I was skeptical to switch, but I could just not find a mouse from logitech that was comparable to the quality and the price of the g5. I think many gamers like myself have heard of Razer, but did not think much about it because we were comfortable with what we had. I have messed around with a Razer keyboard before and could just tell that they build quality products, so I figured, What the Heck? and gave this mouse a try. I was not disappointed and logitech has lost a customer to Razer unless they bring back a mouse like the g5. Buy this mouse. I was skeptical, but honestly, it is a quality product that feels great in the hand. Good job Razer.
5	1394841600	High quality mouse feels great on your hands the side padding helps keep traction. Just an overall great mice, do wish Razer started implementing ways to change color of the lights.
5	1394755200	With 1080p+ the 400 DPI sensor on the Intellimouse just wasn't cutting it anymore. I refused to give it up though because it was so comfortable, loved everything about it.The Deathadder seems heavily inspired by the 3.0 and fits almost exactly like it. The synapse software, even if it does have to be always on, is pretty darn slick. I love all of the settings and customization it offers (Sensitivity/Acceleration, Program Profiles and Macros). This mouse tracks extremely well. I went ahead and ordered the Razer Goliathus mousepad too. I like my old squishy mousepads and the software even has a calibration setting for a variety of mousepads, goliathus included. I'm definitely a fan of razer products after using this mouse.The only little gripe I have is the coating. I liked the glossy finish of the Intellimouse, my hand didn't slip on it. I'll probably get used to this though, it's just different then what I'm accustomed to.I added a photo comparing the Razer DeathAdder 2013 and the Microsoft Intellimouse 3.0.
5	1394755200	I love this mouse. Not only is the mouse great and has a lot of to customize but the Razer support is great. Last year my previous Razer mouse broke and it was just a simple email to the support team and I had a brand new mouse. Love the products love the company.
5	1394755200	This mouse the best mouse, it beats out the more expensive razer mouse. I would highly recommend this mouse above all else
5	1394582400	I got this as a gift for my boyfriend. He plays endless video games on the computer and he says this is an amazing mouse.I personally do not notice a difference besides it is large, then again I do not use it nor am I a 'computer nerd'!
5	1394582400	Just simply love it. Razer products has always been great to me, at least I've never had a problem with any of them.
5	1394496000	Before I got this mouse I was using a wireless logitech and as soon as I switched over there was no going back. First off the feel of the mouse is spot on and the grip is good. From popping head-shots in CS to doing office work it feels very responsive and quick. The mouse is a little simple for MMO games but I am far from an expert on those (last and only one I have ever played was runscape in 06).There is a few things I am not a fan of, the first being that if your hands ever get really sweaty this mouse is a pain to use. The other issue is that the side buttons don't work in some games (this is probably a dev issue) for instance I wanted to map my health potion in torchlight 2 to one of them and could not get it to work.I would recommend this mouse from my experience with it so far (about 6 months)
2	1394409600	I've been using this mouse for 5+ years now and have loved it.  Not only have I bought several for work and home, I've recommended them to all of my friends and coworkers.  That happened again today when I took a coworker to best buy during lunch and insisted he try this mouse.To my horror and dismay, when I took the mouse out of the box I discovered that the beloved soft touch material that used to cover the surface of the mouse was gone.  In it's place is the worst, cheapest feeling plastic I've ever come across.I don't know who made that decision, or why, but please switch back to the soft touch.  I will gladly update my review to a 5/5 because this really was the best computer mouse on the planet.  straight up.
5	1394409600	When I read on Kotaku [...] that this is the best Gaming Mouse, I figured it must also do really well as a high-precision mouse for Photoshop and Illustrator. I was right.I've been frustrated by my old Logitech mouse when trying to draw precision illustrations or precisely modify photos using Adobe's latest software. It always seemed like the mouse pointer would always jump from one spot to the spot just beyond where I wanted it to go.I just received this mouse today and I immediately fell in love! It's SO smooth, SO fast, and SO accurate! Combine its inherent capabilities with the software that comes with it to modify the precision and scanning frequency and we have Photoshop and Illustrator Nirvana! SO glad I made this purchase.
5	1394409600	I really like the multiple settings that can be put on the mouse. It is the perfect mouse for practical use and gaming.
5	1394409600	Very nice mouse. I like the customization like all razer products You wont regret purchasing this mouse for your gaming needs
3	1394409600	Pros:- Excellent sensor: very sensitive and precise- Braided cord feels very durable- Buttons click nicely in terms of tactile feedback- Very comfortableMisc:- Fairly lightweight- Textured plastic feel, not rubbery or smooth.Cons:- You will be forced to have Razer Synapse installed and running on each computer you intend to use the mouse on. Without it, you are stuck with a default profile which is unsuitable for any serious gaming.[For Mac specifically] The software always fails to load your profiles from the cloud the first few times, forcing you to unplug and replug the mouse until it finally loads it. Not syncing your profiles means you end up with the default one, which is probably not what you want. When it finally syncs, the default profile it created is added to your list of profiles, building up garbage. Eventually you'll decide to delete the duplicate copies of the default profile, but you have to delete them one at a time and use the default profile while doing so. I know it sounds like I'm making this up, which is why I ignored these warnings from other users.Summary:I like the hardware -- really no complaints at all. However, the software for Mac is unacceptable. Would give it 1 star, but the hardware deserves some credit. Had this mouse for a few months and I now just bought a Logitech G500s to replace it since I'm tired of putting up with this. Going to use my DeathAdder on a Windows PC instead.
5	1394409600	I have been using many mouses thus far (RAT series, logitech GX series, other razer mice), and nothing has given me a better feel than this mouse. I prefer it over the pricey ouroboros because of its ergonomics, lightness, tracking responsiveness, simplicity, smoothness, mouse curvature, and its looks. Hours of gaming and no fatigue whatsoever. Great product.
5	1394323200	Pros:DurableFeels Great In My HandLooks CoolGot those 2 lil clickities on the sideLooks IncredibleI feel like my favorite livestreamer except without all the popularity and good looksLooks AwesomeCons:Kinda PriceyCan't really think of anymoreDon't Like Snakes
5	1394323200	Love the mouse. Very ergonomic and feels great in your hand.Nice rubbery feel all around the mouse allows for nice and easy grip.Very high DPI setting allows for the highest sensitivity and also the lowest, and has very precise pointing.
5	1394323200	This mouse has been great to me.  The cord stays out of the way and the sensor registers movement well.
3	1394236800	This mouse served me well until about 3 months in when I started to experience the infamous &#34;double left click&#34; issue. It's a shame because the sensor in this mouse is great for gaming and it feels pretty comfortable, but when the mouse starts randomly forcing your single clicks into double clicks it's time to toss it aside. Good mouse, bad Razer build quality as per usual. Won't be buying Razer again.
5	1394236800	it's definitely one of the top gaming mouses in 2013, and still have good performance till now. I especially love the grasp.
5	1394150400	For the past 9 years I've put some thousands of hours onto just 1 kind of mouse and after it showed signs of death, I finally decided to try a new mouse.I am very pleased with this mouse.  It's definitely bigger than I expected which was a surprise because I thought my previous mouse (logitech mx518) was fairly big.  Luckily for me, I have always preferred larger mice and gaming controllers.I've read a TON of reviews bashing the whole Synapse 2.0 configurator program it has and I honestly don't understand any of the hate.  You google it, find it on the Razer website, make a quick account for it, log in.. and then you can make whatever changes you want. It took me literally 2 minutes to get that far.. and fortunately I didn't want to change any of the default settings within this program so I had no problem with any of that.I've also read reviews regarding issues changing your cursor sensitivity and/or mouse wheel scroll speed.  The solution is so simple.  When you plug the mouse in, it will automatically download the mouse drivers or whatever(I'm tech-savy but I lack in the terminology area so bear with me) into your computer.  You simply go to your computers Start Menu and find the 'Devices' selection.. on my computer it's called 'Devices and Printers'.  You click on that and you should see your mouse there.. titled 'Razer Deathadder'.  Right-click on that and choose 'Mouse settings' and you can adjust the available settings to your preference.  Too easy.Anyways, really the ONLY disappointment I have right now is that I was HIGHLY looking forward to the cool lights on the mouse.. and apparently I got a version that doesn't have lights?  Oh well..
5	1394150400	This is the best mouse I have ever owned period. It fits my hand incredibly well, feels nice, looks nice, and performs excellently. I had some initial problems where the mouse stopped responding on my Mac sporadically. This seemed to be sorted out with a pram reset and a software update.While the Synapse 2.0 software is still a terrible inconvenience this mouse still shines. I bought it for my occasional gaming, but ended up using it for everything.
4	1394150400	The mouse is awesome and a huge upgrade ( I previously owned a $6 dollar mouse), synapse 2.0 is also a nice program to customize the settings(easy to use).  The mouse is comfortable and the lights are just awesome.
5	1394150400	This mouse is comfortable, sleek and fits perfectly in my hand. Im a girl gamer but my hands are larger then most other ladies and this mouse is perfect. Made me stray away from logitech.
5	1394150400	Good price. Good feel.  Purchased with DeathStalker keyboard recently. Provides plenty of options to customize to your style.  Has opened up a whole new world of gaming for me since I would always just use a generic keyboard / mouse setup.
5	1394150400	I love playing Dota2 and this is the best mouse. Simple, beatiful with high precision. Works perfect in Linux but without the software that just works in Windows, but i dont care about it.
5	1394150400	It works great when I play Dota2 and other games.And I really like it.I think i might by another one some day.
5	1394150400	Love this mouse it just feels so fluid on the screen and in my hand.  I highly recommend it as a lifelong Logitech user this has caused a permanent switch.One downside is the online driver experience that may not appeal to some.
2	1394150400	First I'll give some positives.  I have big hands, so the fact that it fit comfortably in them was a big plus.  It was very responsive, and all was going well.  I'd have been happy to give this at least 4 stars.  But, now a mere 5 months after I bought it, often when I click the left button it double clicks.  I've hardly put a lot of wear and tear on this mouse, and even if I was gaming 10 hours a day every day it should still last longer than 5 months before falling apart like that.  From now on, I'll just buy the cheap Microsoft ones.  Cost 1/3 the price and last 4 times as long.
5	1394150400	Much more ergonomic than the previous version! giving me better control, and more fulfilling game play! totally recommended to everyone!
5	1394150400	I picked up the Razer Deathadder while it was on sale recently, and have not been disappointed. The Deathadder is a little bit larger and flatter than a standard mouse, so it feels a little odd to use at first. However, the button placement and general feeling when using the mouse is excellent - I never accidentally hit the programmable side buttons, standard clicks are responsive, and the middle mouse button and wheel feel &#34;right&#34;, for lack of a better term.If I had to find a downside, it would be that the mouse carries the Razer branding a bit heavily - the built-in lighting, while it can be controlled, feel a little bit like you should be going to a LAN party at all times. However, you can deactivate or tweak most of the lighting and visual aspects of the mouse using the Razer software that is required to use the mouse.
4	1394150400	Bought this mouse because of its high ratings in a couple of review sites I checked.  This machine is nice, especially the positioning of the Mouse 4 & Mouse 5 buttons (thumb buttons).  All the buttons, including Mouse 3 (wheel button) have excellent responses, good click feel and are very fast. In fact they are so fast (sensitive) I've had to train myself on not pressing down on the right mouse button while in heated FPS battles.  This mouse is large, especially length wise (5 inches), and I don't see it being that comfortable for someone with small hands. It also has a little trouble gliding over my Steelseries mouse pad at times.  It's a light unit, especially compared to my previous Logitec G9x which I used with a full load of weights installed - this mouse doesn't include a weight tray.  Profiles can be installed and are maintained on Razer's servers using a program they call Razer Synapse which you download and register for.  This of course means you must launch Synapse at boot up for the mouse to use your settings.  Instructions are just a quick setup guide and more in depth information is on Razer's server.  Although it has adjustable DPI I haven't figured out how to adjust it on the fly, if its possible at all. If not, that is a disappointment. It does have three possible pulse rates of (i forget, 500 and 1,000).  The cord seems to be sturdy enough but not so much as to interfere with mouse control.  I'm fairly tough on keyboards and mice (usually get about 1.5 years out of them) so we'll see how well built this unit is over time.  All in all I'm a satisfied customer and would recommend this unit unless your a FPS player who needs on the fly DPI adjusting.
4	1394150400	It is a great mouse.  No doubt about it.  The only problem I have with this mouse is its position of the two side buttons.  I don't have small hands, they aren't large either, but I need to have a thumb length of a great ape to reach the forward button and be comfortable.  At first thought it was my hand position on the mouse, which is possible.  I can see and feel where it wants me to hold it, but where the arc of the palm rest feels unnatural to me.  Where it forces me to hold the mouse I don't feel like I have control.  My fingers aren't at rest at its &#34;natural&#34; position, I feel like I'm putting too much weight on the mouse rather than being able to keep it nimble for those tight moments of quick reaction.I would recommend holding this mouse in your hands at your local electronics store.  See where it's natural for you to hold and if you like it.  I'm getting used to it, but it's not perfect.
2	1394150400	Typically i was very impressed by Razers products, but seeing as this mouse only lasted me about 3 months before the scroll wheel started to be wonky, I cant say i'd recommend this to anyone.
5	1394064000	First experience with an DeathAdler Razer mouse - but certainly will not be the last.Well constructed, LOOONNNG fabric covered mouse cord.Excellent tactile feel on buttons, super accurateNo impact on CPU/mouse/display speed using their Razer Synapse ConfiguratorI'm glad I bought it
5	1393977600	Now I'm coming from the G5 Logitech mouse which has weights and seeming better control. But this mouse although lighter, fits my hand better and seems more accurate. Once you get used to how light it is, its a great mouse. I photoshop and game, things that require a very precise mouse. I'm sold. The software to update the drivers isn't nearly as bad as people make it out to be. What's wrong with something internet connected to keep your drivers always up to date? Same with my 770 GTX video card. It's good, buy it. Be sure and not use it on a gel pad, get a good mouse pad too, like MIONIX PROPUS 380. That's the one I use becuase its huge, high quality, and I'm not about huge designs on my mouse pad.
5	1393977600	It's beautiful and i really like it, even though it is a little large for my hand. the shipment was fast.
5	1393891200	I love how this mouse feels in my hand. I honestly can't tell how much more accurate it is than my old one, but I am probably too casual of a player to notice such things. The textured sides make moving it left to right effortless. You'll never worry about losing your grip either. Green mouse wheel looks really cool I think too. Had it only a month, so maybe something will break, but it's working just like the day I opened it now. The mesh usb wire is also a huge plus compared to a plastic covered one.
5	1393891200	This mouse is absolutely amazing in every way i would've imagined it'd be. Best mouse purchase ever. Glad to be part of the cult of razer
5	1393891200	i play league with this mouse, this mouse way 2 stronkthank you razer for making this awesome gaming mouse
5	1393891200	The death adder 2013 has been great. It feels great in my hand and it just looks really cool, haha. It also responds very quickly and works great for skyrim and the sort. My only issue is with the buttons on the side for which I hit a lot because they're so sensitive, other than that it's great, nice product razer
3	1393891200	I originally bought a 2013 edition in November and liked it enough to buy another one for my brother earlier this year.  After about 3 weeks of him using it the mouse wheel would start to have a loud squeaking sound while scrolling down.  I would expect better from a top end mouse.  Other than quality issues, the mouse functionally is great with one of the best sensors in the market if you're looking to do some serious FPS play.
2	1393804800	I originally jumped to get a mouse that would feel comfortable in my hand but the buttons and size of the mouse was quite bigger than anything else I've ever used.I ended up sending it back after about an hour or so of use, I opted instead for a Roccat Kone Pure which was a better couture for my hand size.
5	1393804800	I wore out my mouse and needed a new one.  After doing some research I had limited my selection down to a few choices, but I wasn't really sure which one I wanted.  After learning the DongRaeGu used a Death Adder, I know that was the mouse for me.  I play around 30 hours of video games a week, and this mouse was able to stand up to the constant use of StarCraft and SC:Go for around a year and a half.  Everything works flawlessly on it except the left mouse button is starting to wear out, making it much easier to depress the button than it once was, and there is a a visible mark where I have worn off the paint on left mouse button.  The mouse is nice and light, and I have not had any jittering problems with the mouse.  I enjoyed my first DeathAdder so much, I am now getting a second one.
5	1393804800	Mouse feels great, it's extremely comfortable and durable. It looks great as well, as for the software be advised that it's not perfect and it tends to be buggy. Other than that I fully recommend it for gaming or general use.
5	1393718400	I was really needing to reaplace my $5 dollar mouse from some random store and this one is perfect, really met my expectations!
3	1393718400	I still cannot believe I spent $50 on a mouse. Truth is the $20 mouse I had was just fine. No discernible difference. Whatever...
5	1393718400	This really does have a nice feel to it and after a couple months of use shows no sign of wearing out. Has a good natural curve of the hand, at least for me and I'm a picky mouse user.
5	1393632000	The mouse is a perfect fit to my hand and works great.  I was used to a very small mouse(logitech M505), so this mouse has taken a while to get used to from using such a small mouse in the past.  The mouse is a little bulky; my initial reaction was it felt very old school because it was so big. Further playing with it I started to feel all the advantages.  It is very comfortable, the 2 extra mouse pads are great help for gaming, and it is extremely customizable.
5	1393632000	I find this mouse to be perfect. I have not had any problems with it so far. And i really like the shape and size of the mouse it fits my hand perfectly (and i have fairly large hands). I would definentaly recomend this mouse to anyone wanting to game it fits the role great.
4	1393545600	In the beginning, before the Razer DeathAdder I bumbled through gaming world(s) with mice that I did not realize the inferior position that I had put myself into.  Never understood why I kept losing in knife fights, missed a jump and plunged to my demise, or in an all out fire fight my kill stats are in the low 20's.  This all changed, when I came upon a find, the Razer which caught my eye with its rather sinister radioactive green glowing undertones.  At first I didn't know I did not know what I held, moving it to and fro I was surprised at its lightness, no gimmicky weight carriages, but a low center of gravity subtly different from other plastic mice.  I have rather long hands and they fit around the DeathAdder like around a magical custom hilt.  From that point on it was history.  180 degree spins with head shots on the dime, hand to hand combat so fast I can't count the casualties and vorpal like accuracy slicing enemies like a hot knife thru butter became the stuff of legend.  As I saw my rankings increased on the boards so did my infamy.  Adversaries came out of the woodwork to stop me but I will not be caught anymore without my DeathAdder.  The days of returning to being a mundane was over for me since finding one of these.  Maybe it can be as magical to you as it is for me.  Do some good.
2	1393545600	One of the key on the side doesn't work well. But I don't have time to change and I use the other keys.
5	1393545600	An incredible mouse high quality with a veryc omfortable design ideal for people with large hands. Razer is a master building gaming grade mouse.
5	1393545600	If you're looking for a comfortable gaming mouse that uses the palm grip and doesn't have many extra buttons then the standard two on the side, then this is the mouse for you. It's such a sleek looking mouse, and extremely comfortable. This is my first razer mouse and I am never going back.
4	1393459200	A little background:Though I write with my right hand, I have always gamed with the mouse in my left hand. Finding left handed mice is difficult and I have been a Razer user for years, I started using them because of their ambidextrous design, back with the original Razer Boomslang, then a Boomslang special Edition CE. I loved both of these and would buy another one in a heartbeat. They stopped updating the drivers for the Boomslang CE, so I started having problem with the mouse not working properly with the latest games. I then tried a Razer Ourobouros,(ambidextrous again) but the one I got would not work wirelessly, only wired. Returned it, since it is a very expensive mouse, and instead of getting a replacement I was reimbursed for the cost. The side buttons on the Ourobourous were awkward to use so I decided to look for something else.Review:This is my first &#34;from the ground up&#34; lefthanded mouse and I have been very pleased with it. The form fit is good for my (large but not huge) hand, the side buttons are within easy reach for my grip (I use a &#34;palm&#34; grip, see the razerzone.com website for an explanation of the three basic grip types). The mouse is very responsive and works well with the type of games I play (BF4 lately)  I would have preferred green lights rather then blue but that is no big deal. I use a Razer Vespula mousepad and this mouse works very well with it.The only reason it does not get five stars is the user interface. I have not had any technical issues with the synapse software, but making any changes on the buttons for the lefthanded mouse is counterintuitive to say the least, but you could easily call it damn annoying. Once you have made the changes there is little reason to mess with it again (I don't use multiple profiles, I have no need for it). So for a mouse that is one third of the price of the Ourobouros I am very happy.
5	1393459200	Perfect mouse and perfect price.  Very sensitive and high quality siding that doesn't get eaten away from the constant playing and heavy sweating sessions.
5	1393459200	Just got this mouse today and I already love it. I plan on getting one for my work computer next!
5	1393372800	Best mouse i have tassled with yet. Wired beats wireless, as no batteries are necessary and no breakups in connection can possibly happen. Pairs well with razer mouse pads. Provides nice ergonomic feel as well, and clicks feel light and fast.Best gaming mouse from a famous brand yet.
5	1393372800	I was skeptical at first for spending so much on a mouse, and the fact that it was a &#34;right handed&#34; model, as I've always used ambidextrous ones. Well, I love it.....SOOOOO smooth, on point & FAST, and feels great in my hand. Love the extra buttons too....Once you have them, you'll wonder how you dealt without them!
4	1393286400	The only reason I take a star away from this controller is that mine came and the LED-lit wheel and icon do not light up. Other than that, it performs flawlessly.P.S. Make sure you buy or use a mouse-pad with this mouse. I used to just use a flat surface with my wireless mouse and it would work fine, but with the Death Adder the icon was going bonkers on my screen without an actual mouse-pad.
5	1393286400	My life has been forever changed since the purchase of the Razer DeathAdder Ergonomic PC Gaming Mouse. The experience has been two-fold: one side of it has led to a life of prosperity and riches while the latter has brought doom and destruction to all who comes into it's path.My first mistake was thinking that all mice are the same. After hearing stories from a different land of the mysteries and power of the DeathAdder mouse I decided I would give it a shot. There was a low resounding hum from the package which it arrived in. Curious as a cat, I quickly opened it and tried out the mouse afterwards on some of the popular online games out there like Halo and Call of Duty. It was only a matter of hours before I was among the top players in the world.Before I discovered out the source of this newfound skill, I had been banned multiple times from different forums and games. I have created many different accounts to fuel my desire to win, and running out of creative names I simply named my most recent gaming account appropriately "DeathAdder." After the finalization of this account that's when things started to turn south. The first thing I noticed was the cat was on fire. Taken aback by this strange experience I continued on as normal. I went to go to the store and I saw men in suits standing outside. Considering I'm either in the matrix or about to be confronted by door to door evangelists, I promptly escaped out the back door only to be confronted by my mouse."Not so fast," the mouse blurted. I was both ecstatic and terrified by this amazing feat. My emotions were further stirred when I realized my lawn was dead. "Hey what happened to my lawn," I asked inquisitively. I instantly knew what had happened. Death was added to my lawn.It's been 4 days now and I haven't seen the mouse since. I tried going back to regular mice only to be worse than before DeathAdder came into my life. The ridicule is almost worse than how creepy that mouse was. While writing this, the cat has caught fire again. If you don't hear from me again.. You have been warned.
5	1393286400	NICE MOUSE  HAVE HAD IT FOR A MONTH. NO ISSUES.SOFTWARE DOWNLOAD AND INSTALL WORKED AS EXPECTEDSETTING UP THE DIFFERENT MOUSE BUTTONS WAS EASY,IF IT LASTS I WOULD BUY ANOTHER ONE
4	1393286400	Mouse is simple and clean.Works great.cheap affordable price.side buttons are great.I feel as if the mouse is to &#34;light&#34; tho.causing me to &#34;hover&#34; a lot more then usual.other then that I'd recommend.
5	1393200000	I really like the fit and finish. A modern matte finish. The lights in the scroll wheel and palm are a nice touch. The clicks, rolls and slides are first rate.I can't use any of the nice features at work because we don't have the ability to install software so that was the end of using it for solid modeling software.It always defaults to right-handed when I open the configuration menu. It can remember everything else but not that it's set to LH.At rest it's the second biggest user of memory on my PC.When I turn the PC on the system defaults to a mouse config besides Razer because the Razer hasn't loaded yet. The mouse is all over the place with acceleration.I'd recommend it for home use..
1	1393200000	At first I thought this was a good mouse, then after 3 months the left mouse button went dead. I contacted Razer customer supportand told them the problem. They got back to me via Email 4 days later and said I had to send them the defective mouse back before they would send me a NEW replacement. I had to pay the shipping! What the hell is that!. So I got a REFURBISHED mouse in a crappy little cardboard box 2 weeks later. Glad I still had my 4 year old Logitech which had never failed me once to use in the meantime. So I use this replacement piece of garbage and in less than 3 months the left mouse button dies just like the first one.Once again I have to pay return shipping for their defective product. $24 so far and I'm still waiting for another replacement. 3 weeks now. In the meantime I have ordered a new Logitech Gaming mouse. Whenever I had a problem with a Logitech product, the customer support was great and never had to pay for shipping and they sent the replacement right away. All in all Razer, their product and their customer support suck. Can't wait to take a hammer to the replacement they send after it fails again.
5	1393200000	I work in IT so I'm at a desk for 8+ hours a day. I come home to game on my PC, which can add a few more hours a day sitting at a PC. My old gaming mouse was really starting to hurt my wrist as it was quite small. I had the original DeathAdder and decided to switch back and get the ergonomic version. I'm so happy I did. My wrist doesn't hurt while gaming anymore! Plus the DPI settings has greatly improved since the original. I'm not quite sure how people actually game at such crazy settings(I have mine turned down to 2300). The only con to this mouse is its lack of buttons. I knew it only had the two thumb buttons, but I couldn't believe that the scrool wheel didn't click from side to side. I'm not taking any stars off for that though as I didn't read up on the product enough before purchasing it. Can't retract on something that it wasn't designed to have.
5	1393200000	This mouse has a great design and is easily one of the most comfortable mice i have ever owned, it is perfect for a claw grip and for palm grip players, I enjoy this mouse so much i bought a usb hub and the DA just as a backup for my taipan if my hand ever starts to cramp, all i have to do is flip the switch and go
3	1393200000	I received an Orochi mouse when I ordered this which, while being a great mouse, is not the product I ordered.Overall the shipping was fast and well packaged.  Just remember to check that your product is correct (I thought mine looked funny but never checked)
5	1393200000	great mouse for left handed people, i was using a 30$ wireless mouse from walmart and had to use my index finger on the left click button so my hand never rested fully on a mouse til now, takes some time to get used to it but extremely happy so far.....the only con of this entire thing is the stupid fedex smartpost, got to my town at 9AM sat, said it was out for delivery and did not get it til Monday which is when it said i would receive it but when you post out for delivery i assume its out for delivery
4	1393113600	Although its price nearly drove me away, I do not regret buying it. The mouse is very sensitive and will have traction on any surface. Not only is it sensitive, it is easy to grip. My past mouse (was okay) did not tract well against my slick table and I was forced to find another: the Razer DeathAdder. It was not what I expected.  It does not minimally move but instead, is a very fast and not precise mouse. Even though all that, I would still suggest buying it.
5	1393113600	Well for me it was between the Deathadder 2013 and the Sensei but I couldn't decide so I just bought them both. After using both mice I must say I feel the Deathadder 2013 is a better mouse. This is not saying the Sensei is a bad mouse just not as good as the DA 2013. The DA feels more comfortable to use and combined with a Stealseries QcK pad it feels spot on with tracking in BF4. I know there is a big debate over optical vs laser but having come from a Mionix Naos 5000 laser mouse and having used the Sensei I prefer the tracking of an optical mouse for FPS gaming (God rest my MS Intellimouse Explorer 3.0 and Logitech G4). The Sensei thumb buttons didn't feel placed right and the wheel when you clicked on it wanted to scroll. The DA thumb buttons are perfect for my hand and the wheel is solid but not so much that you feel you need to really crank on it. So IMHO if your looking for a top notch FPS gaming mouse look no further than the Deathadder 2013. One bad thing about the DA is the Software, you have to create an account in order to use it and it takes forever to dnld updates then requires a reboot, all this for a mouse.
5	1393027200	Wow, probably the most ergonomic mouse I have ever used! It looks, works and feels great. Best of all, its rather cheap than most mice at this price point considering the build quality of this thing. It also has rubber grips on sides so you do not have to press hard to pick mouse up and it won't slip out of your hand. I highly recommend this to anyone looking for a gaming mouse, unless you need more than two mmo buttons. Meets all my needs and I couldn't ask for more.
1	1393027200	The mouse physically is as with previous models, lovely.However, as of this version, the software (driver and configuration) are no longer a normal Windows driver and application, but a "cloud-based" driver, which is to say, you need to create an account, provide your email address, log in, have a binary which runs at startup which has you permanently logged in, reboot when the binary is auto-updated, etc, where the binary auto-installs mouse drivers/firmware and sets mouse configuration.I find this utterly repellent.  It is wholly unnecessary - mouse configuration does *not* need to be or benefit from being stored on a remote server, it is merely extra complexity which can now go wrong (how will my mouse work if the remote server is down?  if it will work fine anyway, why is the data on the remote server?) - and I fear the main purpose of this is to allow Razer to collect user data; email addresses, how often mouse are used, when users turn their computers on, etc.The auto-update feature is of questionable value; as with Windows updates, sooner or later, an auto-update will break something and if my mouse is working, why update it?  I have no wish to run that risk.  As a touted benefit for having Razer insert themselves down your throat, this is a non-starter.I will not be buying Razer again for as long as they offer their software in this form.  Facebook is not an example to be emulated and unlike Facebook, there are many other companies producing mice.Finally, I have a 3.5G Deathadder at home, with this new Deathadder 2013 at work.  The two sets of software do not appear to work together; I had to uninstall the 2013 software, for the 3.5G configuration application to detect the 3.5G mouse.  In addition, unlike earlier versions, there now appear to be no firmware variants (which were highly desireable for using the mouse with first person shooters).
5	1393027200	I have Used TONS of mice, From the Microsoft Wheel Optical, the R.A.T5,and HEAPS more!this isn't the first I have used that has Extra Side buttons, But These Buttons feel very nice when you click them,And You just have to slightly tilt you thumb to click them. Also the Green colouring is very nice, And looks MUCh better in real life that it does on any Photo.  This is also the First mouse that has Above 6000 DPI, Which doesn't do much, But you can REALLY tell when playing RTS games,Especially SC2.Good : Looks AWESOME, Gold Plated USB, 6400 DPI, extra buttons, You can click all buttons very fast, slides easy and precise, The ergonomics of the mouse is really good, It fits right into my hand, and all my friends say the same thing.Bad : Nothing.
5	1392940800	Its &#34;okay&#34; for what it is. It is by far the absolute best palm-grip mouse I have ever used. The buttons and wheel and grip are absolutely amazing!The only problem I have with it is that its not responsive enough for me. I either have to use a lot of force and overshoot what I am doing, or I am unable to move at all...I imagine this has to do with my mouse pad though and not so much the fault of the mouse... still it causes me ~15 problems a day that are comical sometimes.The palm grip has helped as far as my hand hurting from my old mouse after extended use, so that's a plus.However this is a PALM-GRIP mouse. I much prefer CLAW-GRIP or FINGERTIP-GRIP mice. I will more than likely be replacing this mouse as soon as I can, but I will buy a new mouse pad and test it out there first before doing so.Still, for what it is, the mouse is exactly as described. It is awesome for what it is and what it does. my only negatives are user preference.
5	1392854400	I started a new job and they gave me a small wireless mouse. it wasn't doing the job for me. my hand was hurting at the end of the day, and i was having problems with accuracy.  I've used Razer mice for gaming for years and decided to bring that same level of performance to my work computer.Since using this at my office my hand no longer hurts. Using the back button on the mouse is great.Also it lights up with green awesomeness. Who doesn't want that.P.S. Don't forget to get a mouse pad as this doesn't work great on a desk.
5	1392768000	Clicking is a dream on this mouse.  Wheel feels good.  Side buttons have a nice click as well but are just a tad too prominent as I tend to accidentally click them from time to time.  Not enough to remove a star as it really is a good gaming mouse though.  I would consider it the best gaming mouse on the market if it wasn't for the SteelSeries Rival. :-)
3	1392768000	The mouse shape is some what the same as the original deathadder. But once was plastic on the thumb and ring finger placement is now rubber. On the original deathadder the sides of the mouse has a much more deep curve for better grip. Also the hump on the palm is has a much larger arch on the deathadder 2013. The extra rubber on the sides gives the thumb and ring finger no where to &#34;sit&#34; it just holds the mouse as if you were pinching a tea cup and lifting the pinky as you drink your tea. They say they improved the ergonomics of the mouse but it just seems like they made the high heels for gaming mice. The palm can't rest on top of the mouse like the old deathadder because the arch is too tall. And the rubber grips on the side leave no curves to sit the thumb and ring finger. I did notice that this is a claw mouse for sure. If you have big hands maybe this is for you. But noticing how much bigger this mouse is to the older deathadder I realized it does not feel the same at all. You really need to claw this mouse to get any kind of control. The grips on the side do nothing. If you are sweaty or in any way have oily hands, the rubber will get slippery. It's like walking in wet rubber sandals, your feel just slip out. I wish the nice finish on top of the mouse was on the sides. Other then that the mouse clicking and mouse wheel is the same apples to apples. I would not recommend this mouse unless you are a claw grip person, or you have large hands. I am a medium size, and I find it difficult to grip this mouse.
5	1392681600	My old and dear Logictech MX610 finally died..Logictech decided to stop making the only wireless true lefty mouse.. so went back to a corded mouse..*SIGH*anyhow.. this thing works GREAT and feels good in my hand.
1	1392681600	Once I received the product, which I send to my son who went to mexico, it turned out to be damaged, the left button did not work.very poor seller
5	1392681600	Arrived just as expected. No troubles or worries! Exactly as described in the description. Would recommend to anyone if interested in this item!
5	1392681600	Awesome gaming mouse... Not one complaint. People who complain about this mouse are being too critical. For the average / constant gamer, its perfect
5	1392681600	Been using the Mouse for a couple of days, and while I have felt more control it did take awhile to get used to.  This mouse feels bigger than a standard mouse.  Once you master using it thou you can never switch to any other mouse.  The only down is that the logo led blinks instead of staying lit.
5	1392681600	Always loved the feel of the mouse material itself and look of all Razer products. This mouse was a tad sensitive upon plug in but nothing that couldn't be fixed quickly in settings.
5	1392595200	Fits in hand well, nice ergonomic mouse, lights well, although lights fade in and out.Razer Synapse 2.0 must be updated, other than that, very good :)
5	1392595200	As a lefty, I've been using right handed with my left hand for years.  It feels good, no numbing of my fingers anymore, no pain and not having to massage my own hand now.  I play an MMO called World of Warcraft and started raiding as a healer.  I find it a lot easier, and less stressful/painful to play.  At the end of the raid, my hand no longer feels like it needs a massage.
5	1392508800	it's served me well playing games and i have recommended it to my friends. i had the original deathadder for a while before purchasing the 2013 edition, and i've found both to be excellent gaming mice.
5	1392508800	I got this mouse over three years ago for Christmas and it's still working just as good as the day I got it. I ran into a problem recently where it started to double click and all I had to do was vacuum out the inside (I have cats, so hair can get trapped practically anywhere).I love the long threaded cable on this mouse. It has amazing adjustable sensitivity options and for only fifty dollars you could not ask for a better left-handed mouse. I read that Razer actually produces the left-handed models at a slight loss, and I think it's great that they're willing to help out those in the minority who are looking for a left-handed gaming mouse.
4	1392508800	I prefer simplicity over flashy-ness or unneeded buttons (like those stupid &#34;MMO&#34; mice that are two the price). This is about as simple as it gets.I go between Razer and Logitech after I have a mouse die on me. My last Razer had an optical defect where the mouse would just jump to top of the screen randomly. Got rid of that for a G500 (Logitech) and after a year the right click started to double click. I took that bitch apart to discover they use a flimsy piece of metal that gets pressed down to make the click register. The flimsy metal was flattened out with no more spring to it. I bent it back but after a month or so it just flattened out again.Thus, here I am about six months into my DeathAdder - I hope Razer doesn't use the same design to register clicks. I guess once this one breaks I will tear it apart and update my review to describe what kind of mechanics it has.I doubt I'll go back to Logitech due to how the make the click registers, if you play games like League or SC2, Logitechs will &#34;die&#34; in like a year.I have two minor issues with this mouse:1) I think the mouse wheel can be better, it feels clunky and loud... But it still works fine, and even looks pretty cool.2) The shell of the mouse constantly creaks/cracks when I put my hand on it. This is another issue I think should be addressed with a higher quality production with the body.(-1 star for both issues.)What I like about this mouse:1) Simplicity. OMG, I cannot stress this enough, a mouse only gets worse as it gets above half a dozen buttons.2) This mouse actually feels really good on the hand, especially where the thumb rests... However, the cheap feel of the top part of the shell is difficult to overlook when I use it daily.3) The cable is long and fantastic!5) I love the overall look of it; you can adjust the light settings (on/off) to your preference. Razer's driver software isn't to shabby either.
5	1392508800	It is worth the money. It feels very comfortable in my hand and is made well. I use it to play League of Legends mainly and noticeably improvement and ease with last hitting/ mechanics. Everyday use is a nice bonus.
3	1392422400	This mouse takes a little time to get used to, it is very narrow in the center. the main annoyance I have right now is the scroll wheel is extra squeaky .
5	1392422400	Thing is excellent in every way, comfortable to hold, great for gaming and looks cool in the dark.  Its everything I wanted for a reasonable price.
5	1392422400	Amazing piece of hardware. I shudder when touching the mouse that i used to play on. How on earth did i ever use that blasted thing i will never know, what i do know is that i am a razer customer for life. Get one and you will know exactly what i am talking about.
4	1392422400	This is a great mouse. Best for first person shooters, (csgo). Only problem it just doesent move fast enough. Great mouse must buy/must have
2	1392336000	I've worked with LOTS of mice in my tech-heavy career, and was really hoping for a high quality, 8-hours-a-day kind of mouse for long term comfort and performance.  I bought this mouse and when I first tried it, it performed GREAT.  Very responsive, very cool looking, really like the sturdy cord.However, after just about 5 minutes of use, my hand starting getting sore.  I kept thinking I just need to adjust to it, but after several days it's just getting worse.  This mouse requires your hand to be laid parallel to the desk, not at the natural 30-45 degree tilt that is natural.  Furthermore, when I put in the palm as designed, my fingers would either go too far off the front edge of the mouse, or I'd constantly be trying to operate it cock-eyed, with my left finger laying across the scroll wheel and onto the right finger button, then stretching to click the left click.  I'd move it back, but they it would hurt my palm.  Just put your hand exactly on the mouse where your fingers are designed to go, you suddenly feel sympathetic to edward scissor-hands.One other issue - the right-click button is too sensitive.  I was constantly right-clicking unintentionally.  Maybe it's because my hand just didn't fit it, but both buttons seem crazy sensitive.  Probably something you'd get used to if you could get past the hand-cramps.It's just a bad design, and it's definitely NOT ergonomic.  I have a smaller, weaker, less performing logitech that does not support my hand, and I can use that better.  I'm wishing i had tried this before buying rather than just trusting reviews about great mouse performance.  2 stars b/c the performance is great, but only 2 because it's so completely unusable just simply based on shape.  The company needs to spend more on r&d; studying the natural positions of the hand.Just my 2 cents, hope it helps someone else.  At the end of the day it's just really important that you hold a mouse and ensure you're comfortable with it before you can know if it will work.
5	1392336000	Best gaming mouse for the price. great compliment to my Razer keyboard and mouse pad. Bundle your Razer products for the best experience.
4	1392249600	Love the grip of the mouse. Feels very natural. Could have more buttons to assist more macros programming but I love the 2 extra buttons. Very useful for games.Synapse - somewhat annoying that I have to keep it always running in the background.
5	1392249600	The hype around razer products is real, at least for me. I have been reluctant to buy a mouse for 5 years due to comfort and just overall disappointment in testing replacements.  This shattered all expectations and I am very satisfied with my purchase.  Thank you!
5	1392249600	If you can palm a basketball then you know how small most desktop mice feel.  It's never an issue going through e-mail or whatever but during those gaming sessions it makes a big difference.  The DeathAdder mouse fits my hand so naturally.  The two main buttons feel extended so if you have long fingers as I do, they can actually rest flat on the mouse without having to curl them up.The buttons in my opinion require slightly less pressure to engage than my previous Logitech mice, making them feel a little more sensitive and quicker to engage.  The thumb buttons are perfectly placed allowing your thumb to merely rock across the two.  The wheel has a notched response however it rolls quite smoothly.  The wheel does require significantly more pressure to click down than any other mouse button which helps prevent clicking while rolling.  The lighting is a nice soft green and can be manipulated through the software.  I personally didn't want the logo lit up or pulsing so it was great to be able to turn that off and keep the illumination on the mouse wheel.  The brightness is really perfect and gives it a super clean look.The plastic shell has a finely-grained porous feel which is great.  I never did like the glossy glass-like finishes on my previous Logitech mice.  The tracking in my opinion will satisfy the most demanding user.I'll be honest, I've previously avoided Razer products due to their pro-gamer niche styling.  I have wanted the mechanics of one but in a vastly more modern and clean look.  This mouse fits that bill perfectly.  I truly hope the design teams at Razer keep some products in their line-up that have such style aspects in the future.
5	1392163200	50 bucks, for a left-handed mouse, that's valued around 75? great stuff.Nice to have a leftie mouse. The right handed version is around 75.Overpriced.Great mouse for big hands, could be bigger. Could have weights.Software support is ok/pretty good.Second DeathAdder, first  left-handed. Like it.
5	1392163200	Pros: I had this mice for a week now. It perfectly fit my hand with a good grip on the skin. My gaming skill got improve compare to my old wireless mice this is much better. Never get lose connect like my old wireless. My gaming experience is getting better.Con: not that I can find.
4	1392076800	PROS: Excellent response, smooth movement, incredibly comfortable, simple setup, good packaging, protective threading around the cable.CONS: None that are serious.  It can be a bit too sensitive for detailed work in photoshop. It is a bit too light (for me, you may like that)THOUGHTS:I play a variety of games ranging from FPS to slower strategy games like Civilization and this mouse is fun for all of them.It lacks a button to change the sensitivity on-the-fly.  I would have loved that because I do work in photoshop and this mouse isn't perfect can be more responsive than I'd like sometimes.  Having said that, the software it comes with is decent and I knew when I bought this mouse that it didn't come with that button. I haven't taken off a star because of that.The mouse wheel cannot be tilted left or right, which may not be an issue for anyone, but I thought I should mention it. The middle mouse wheel is reasonably easy to press down too.  That's something that's always been important in games like Crysis (where the middle mouse button opens a selection screen), or in Team Fortress 2 (where the middle mouse button selects a weapon).COMPARED TO OTHER MICE:I switched to this from the Logitech G9x.  The G9x is excellent but the middle mouse button is very resistant to being pressed.  The razor is also more comfortable.  On the other hand the G9x can change its weight, and the razer is quite light.
5	1392076800	I have used a lot of mice from laser to infrared and even some optical mice and this is definitely the best mouse i have ever used. I came from the Naga Epic and man did I over pay for that mouse. The only thing I can think of would be a con for this mouse is the software. Razer Synapse is a poor software. Absolutely terrible. Crashes sometimes and even other times it will lose all my settings for my black widow and Orbweaver. Other than that this mouse is perfect. Hasn't lost me a gunfight yet. Now if only my internet was that perfect.
5	1392076800	This mouse is definitely a must for FPS gaming. Good tracking good grips if you're a person who picks your mouse up off the pad while gaming and it never slipped or made my hand sweat. The visuals on it are pretty nice as well. Had a month so far and no complaints at all.
1	1392076800	My DeathAdder 2013 came in the mail with the side button (Mouse 4) not working, I've owned previous razer products keyboard/mouse which also came defective, previous deathadder left click would double click.. I guess I'll deal with razer support again..
5	1392076800	Works very well, very smooth no stutters. Love the cord as well. Some problems with razer synapse not always syncing profiles after computer has been off but otherwise having profiles for different games is awesome.
4	1391990400	Great mouse, really I can tell a difference, the problem is it only has two side buttons, and trust me you will want more that that.
5	1391990400	Absolutely awesome mouse best I have ever used hands down, love it for battlefield 4.you will not regret buying this!
4	1391990400	The deathadder was my first Razer product back in 2006 and got me hooked! Its very comforable to the hand if you are a palm gripper. with two extra buttons on the side its a perfect office or productivity mouse allowing to shortcut common functions like foreward/backward for browsing or undo/redo in programs etc. My mouse lasted me until 2009 when i upgraded to the Naga at its release. its still in use by a good friend the only complaint was the pads wore quickly, which can now be replaced.
5	1391990400	This mouse went above my expectations, not only is it very comfortable and nearly eliminate sweaty hand after hours of use. The main Great thing about it is a barely even move a inch either way with the mouse to clear my whole 27&#34; widescreen. Took about 3 hours to get used to using 5400 dpi, but it is well worth it, Goodbye chance of tendinitis, Hello smooth gaming : )
3	1391904000	I tend to use the 'Claw' grip on my mouse when gaming so this makes the forward side button, (#5 button), un-usable for my grip style/hand size without moving my cursor wildly off target while aiming in game. I can use it on more mundane tasks such as page forward and such, but lifting my thumb off the mouse to extend forward means I lose all grip of the mouse on the left side for a short period of time. I can use the rear side button, (#4 button), by simply rolling my thumb upward from current grip without actually letting go of it. If I try to move my entire grip forward to place my left thumb below the interface of both side buttons in order to be able to roll thumb up to either, it causes me to have to curl my top three fingers into even more of a claw which causes hand fatigue faster than normal along with some additional mis-clicks there.Great response and tracking mouse with good software, but would like a higher back and both side buttons moved rearward for the Claw grip. Full Palmers should have no complaints.
5	1391904000	5 stars because it functions well. Feels so smooth when it fills my hands. Looks neat.Sometimes I just like to rub it when no ones looking just for fun. It's such a smooth and hard  mouse.On the other hand(the one that holds the cons and negs) it doesn't have that button on the mouse I liked from my last one that changed the DPI when ingame. There might be a hotkey I can set up for this mouses software but i have not looked yet.
5	1391817600	I bought this mouse on the review on TheWirecutter. They said it was the best gaming mouse on the market and I think I might have to agree.
5	1391817600	I absolutely adore this mouse. It is quiet and the scroll is very smooth. The ergonomic design fits my hand perfectly too!
5	1391731200	I'm totally satisfied with this product.I complete different from every mouse which I used to use.Thank razer for a good mouse.
3	1391731200	Razer Deathadder is my first gaming mouse, and i dont think ill buy other gaming mouse after this. i love how smooth it is on gaming. perfect control and everything.the problem was, after a few months of using it it was working perfectly fine. but when i updated the razer synapse (needed to use deathadders features) my mouse just suddenly stopped working dead. i have no idea what happened, tried contacting razer support, but no reply from them. the only reason i gave it 3 star is because of lack of technical support.
4	1391731200	Im a 16 year old high school student and i received a $75 visa gift card so i decided to treat myself to something nice and bought myself this mouse mostly for Starcraft 2 and its great!just one problem the right click is pretty sensitive but that was the same with my last mouse so its probably just me.
5	1391731200	Great size, cool look.  Extra 2 buttons on side are nice, not only for gaming but for browsing as well.
4	1391558400	I bought this mouse to upgrade to a wired gaming mouse. In the past I have had several wireless microsoft and logitech mice, but I recently built a pc and thought I might as well go wired. The response is much quicker and more accurate, I never have to change out batteries (only a problem because I would never turn the mouse off) and Amazon offered it at a much better price compared to some stores including the Razer store (plus I had a $50 amazon gift card from the holidays that helped). I am not using a mouse pad but do not notice any difference. Some people complain about the software, but it doesn't take up much space and gives you access to features like the lighting options. The only reason for 4 stars is that I sometimes hit the side buttons unintentionally with my thumb, might bother some people but not a big deal.  I would highly recommend.
5	1391558400	It works, the side buttons are big and easy to press without accidentally pressing the wrong button like the Razer Naga 2014 left handed mouse. I would have preferred at least 2 more large thunb buttons but I would rather have too few and big than a lot of little buttons that are impossible to press just one.
2	1391472000	Only 4 months! No gaming at all, just regular programming / Internet ...I am not sure what happened to this piece, maybe I got a defected one.I have another wireless RAZOR which works great for almost 2 years now - gaming most time.So seriously, what's wrong with this one?It's hard to buy a good mouse nowadays.
1	1391385600	now, my mouse is broken, only two months, i dot know how to fix it, i am very regret to buy it
5	1391385600	Its like gliding a stick of butter across a hot pan minus the burning sensation of the pan making contact with your skin. It's not a good idea to use your hand to glide butter across a pan. File that away somewhere. Seriously though, pretty awesome mouse. It's almost too smooth. I have to keep it away from my wife its so smooth.
3	1391385600	Not my best mouse purchase especially when my first mouse arrived DOA but amazon managed to replace it quickly. Mouse is good just not great when it work's.
5	1391385600	ive had this thing for a while now. prolly about a month or 2.no problems so far. it was cheaper than to buy it from walmart and i always wanted one. def lives up to the reputation of the best gmaing mouse. i love it ^-^
1	1391299200	I have purchased two Razer DeathAdder mice, one for myself and one for my GF. Initially I was very impressed by the ergonomics and the convenient side buttons. Sadly the mice were not long destined for this world.Very quickly both mice developed a VERY annoying propensity to double-click frequently (or, in my case, at times a single left-click will result in 6 or more clicks - trying to drag-and-drop a file might result in three or more instances of a program starting up due to a schizophrenic switch under the mouse button).Also, the side button furthest away from the mouse-wheel is VERY prone to breakage. Both side-buttons are part of a single plastic assembly that is designed to function as a spring. Very poorly thought out design. The long, thin, narrow hard plastic assembly very quickly work-hardens and fractures, leaving your broken side-buttons rattling around inside the mouse.Overall, I'd say if you'd like to spend just shy of a hundred bucks for a few weeks of ergonomic and efficient gaming, and don't mind being left with a glowing paper-weight on your mousepad after those few weeks of functionality are used up, then this is the mouse for you.
5	1391299200	Much happy now. Such worth. Very Games.Fast delivery by amazon and a very comfortable and effective design make it super awesome to use. The coating is also very nice and feels amazing.
5	1391299200	I have a pretty old and beat up computer (in the process of building a new one) and the mouse worked perfectly within minutes. Setup takes a bit of time, but it's not unreasonable. If you use the Razer 2.0 Synapse stuff it saves your settings online so if you plug your mouse into a different computer (like a laptop for on-the-go use) you don't have to reset anything. Pretty nifty.More importantly, I went through 2 cheap generic mice before deciding an upgrade was worth it. I used right click on the others so much I broke them both. The DeathAdder handles way more commands per minute than my former mice, and it feels much tougher, so I'm not worried about crushing it. I have probably at least 100 hours on this mouse now and it's held up perfectly. Never had a problem.My sole complaint is about the secondary buttons on the side. The forward side button is easy and can be pressed very smoothly without a second thought. The one towards the read of the mouse is much less comfortable to hit. I have to think about using that button in order to actually click it, and in many competitive video games those milliseconds mean death. I advise against using that for super important in game commands. This is literally my only gripe with the mouse however, and I would not think twice about recommending it to any fellow gamer. But if they made an update with slightly better thumb button placement, I'd buy it without a second thought.
5	1391212800	Great price for a great gaming mouse! Isn't overloaded with unnecessary buttons or features. Does exactly what I need it to do! Has two side buttons which are perfect for the way I surf the web and how I game!
5	1391212800	A friend of mine has an older DeathAdder, and I'm not a big fan, due to the material it's made out of. But I knew it still is one of the best tracking mice around, so I figured I'd give it a shot. Wow, am I glad I did. The feel is amazing. Much more comfortable than my old Logitech G5. The grips on the side are fantastic, and buttons have a solid click to them. I'd recommend that anyone looking for a new gaming mouse at least find one to try out, since they're so prolific these days.
5	1391212800	this item was purchased as a gift along with the Razer Goliathus 2014.  The person for whom this purchase was made has told me it is just what he waned and that he would ask for it again.
1	1391126400	The mouse itself is nice, a bit large in the hand, but functions very well. . .Unfortunately the software is an EPIC fail.In order to configure the mouse buttons on this $60 mouse you must not only download cloud based software, and register for the cloud service, but also keep the cloud software running.  That's right -- if you exit the cloud software your button configurations disappear. . .Can't decide if it's going back or going in the garbage, but as soon as I get a new mouse this one is out.Update. . .After less than a day I decided to return the mouse. . .In my brief time using it I found that the pointer precision was very good.  The size of the mouse was a bit too big and after a while was slightly uncomfortable.  In addition to the issues with the intrusive software I couldn't find anywhere to adjust the scrolling of the mouse.  It certainly *has* to exist somewhere, but in about 20-30 minutes of looking around I couldn't find anywhere to do it.  By default the mouse was scrolling 1 page at a time on Firefox, but on Chrome it was scrolling about 1 and a quarter pages at a time. . .Still miss my Razer Copperhead. . .
5	1391040000	People normally fall in to one of two camps when it comes to razer products: They love them blindly, or the hate them blindly. The former hails them as the best manufacturer of gaming devices of all time, and that all their products are infallible. The later says they release flashy, overpriced toys. Yet really, both of these viewpoints aren't accurate.Nevertheless, the DeathAdder pretty much has everything that actually matters in a mouse, and a little bit more.First off, the thing just feels right in your hand. I used to own the R.A.T. 9, and hoped that it's adjustable size would lead to superior comfort. The thing died on me within 3 months, and never felt quite right. The DeathAdder feels great, and proves that size adjustment is overrated. So is weight, because the DeathAdder is about the right weight too. Both of these come from the mouse being relatively large, but not so big it's uncomfortable.Buttons are crisp and responsive. You don't really need more than 4, so there are no more than 4. That's fine. The Mouse Wheel is great too, and doesn't just slide when you touch it, meaning no accidental weapon switching.The sensor has optional prediction, which is nice, because mice from SteelSeries often like to force you into prediction. The sensor is also not as likely to break as a lazer mouse, which is a plus.  Changing the polling rate is easy too, which is great on windows 8, where you can't overclock your USB port.The minor things are nice too. This thing has a good deal of DPI, and though it's not necessary, it is nice to have. The rubberized side grips just add to the comfort. Most gaming mice look nice, and the DeathAdder is no exception, featuring Razer's trademark black and green branding. To top it all off, a braided cord, which makes the product feel a bit better.I have yet to play on a mouse as good as the DeathAdder. I've used quite a few, and though this thing is pricey, it's got everything you'd need. This isn't a bear bones mouse, nor is it full of unnecessary features. It's a luxury item that gets the job done. If you plan on splurging on a gaming mouse, DeathAdder is the reason you should never spend more than $60 on one.
5	1391040000	Love this mouse. Took me a little longer than I expected to get used to using it (my muscle memory has been warped by more than 2 decades of using lesser right-handed mice) - but once I did - I'll never go back. The fit and finish of the mouse is excellent, I love the braided cord and the precise action.I bought 2 so I can have one at work and one at home. I hope Razer expands their Lefty products. Hopefully they'll make their excellent DOTA style Naga into a lefty model as well.
4	1391040000	Got it for my bf since he plays a lot of games on the computer. It was worth the money. The only thing is the mouse is a little to big.
5	1390953600	I bought this online because the price in the stores was slightly more pricey. I'm glad I bought it online! It came quick and was worth it!
5	1390867200	I'm finding more and more reasons to use to side buttons on this thing. Even if I'm just browsing the web they're already mapped to be back and forward buttons, which is great even if I found it out on accident. My only complaint is my hand is slightly bigger than the mouse is shaped for the nice contour of the mouse is kind of lost on me. I need a bigger bump I guess. In any event, this would be 100% my perfect mouse, if my hands were slightly smaller. Still though, it's like 90% for me. The tracking is awesome, great for any game I would play, the variable dpi brings a whole new experience to gaming as well.
3	1390780800	I wanted to get my son the best gaming mouse I could find. After paying an exorbitant price I received the mouse,  only to find out that you have to download special software to make it work. We tried it on three different computers and it didn't work. I returned it and eventually received another one. After getting it to work we found that it isn't any better than any $10 mouse that I could have purchased at my local electronics store. I certainly will not buy another one, nor recommend it to anyone else.
4	1390780800	It works as advertised. I'm not a terribly huge fan of the synapse 2.0 software you have to use to get it to work as advertised, but once you set the sensitivity to where it feels generally good, you can fiddle around with the sensitivity settings in your games to perfect everything without messing with the synapse stuff anymore. Great mouse, not great software running it. If synapse was more user friendly this would be 5 stars easy. Except for the front mouse button of the two buttons on the side. When I first got the mouse it would stick until I got sick of it sticking and furiously clicked the mess out of it. Never sticks now.
5	1390780800	This mouse is great!! Easy to set up. Easy to use. A lot of fun to use. Awesome mouse. I recommend it!
5	1390694400	For $60, this mouse is an excellent find. In my opinion, it's worth spending money on the things you purchase the most (IE beds, chairs, cars, and in this case a mouse).With the Razer DeathAdder you get a mouse with 6400 dpi (dots per inch) which means that it can very accurately track its movement along the mouse-pad. It's feel is very ergonomic and conforms to my larger than average hands. The scroll in the middle rolls smoothly and is raised enough that it's got a comfortable divide between the left and right mouse buttons but not overly cumbersome. Along the left side of the mouse's body are two buttons, defaulted to clicking backwards and forwards in browsers and other programs although you can change the settings or simply not use them if you find yourself accidentally clicking them too often (I don't).Overall, I'm happy with my purchase and would recommend it to anyone who spends a large amount of time on their desktop computer, especially if you take part in video games which require mouse sensitivity such as first person shooters.
4	1390694400	This mouse is acceptional. I have used a couple different mice before this one but this is perfect.This mouse, despite how it looks is kinda big. I have smaller hands and it seemed like I bit off more than I could chew with this mouse the first couple times I played with it simply because of the shape and all. But after playing with it, your hand will just naturally mold to it the more you play. This mouse has perfect response time, and works for all of the games I play. The buttons are very responsive and very easy to press for when you're working with your trigger finger skills. I highly recommend buying this mouse to anyone who is looking for an upgrade. It is very well built, and very light at the same time.The only issue I've really had with the mouse is the cord. It can get caught on things like the edge of a desk or something so I recommend having a way to strap the cord down at a certain length or just curl it up so you don't have to mess with the cord being caught on stuff. Which is very simple to fix anyways.Over all I would recommend this mouse to anyone who is looking for a quality gaming mouse.
3	1390608000	First, let me get the pros about this mouse out of the way...PROs:Extremely well balanced. Paired with the right mouse pad, you can have a killer set-up. I personally have the Razer Destructor mouse pad, which helped this mouse, my Mamba and even the Logitech G500s slide smoothly for a great gaming session.Great grip. Both sides have a rubber-like section that aids when handling the mouse, giving you great control, special for FPS games.The boom is just right. Compared to the Logitech G500s, the DeathAdder is much easier on the hand, limiting fatigue, and quite honestly, I did not suffer any for that matter.The Right and Left mouse buttons have a slight shape to them, which again, aids greatly when playing FPS, as you'll find your fingers less stressed and will feel a much more control when taking shots and/or aiming.The actual "click" is spot on. I didn't notice any lag between my input and output to the games I played.The feet. Wow, they do wonders, but again, I have the Razer mouse pad, so I believe it gives me an advantage.The cord. Braided. Very long and not cumbersome at all. I don't really see the need for a cord bungie, but again, that's personal preference.Gold plated USB. Gold will keep interference off at a greater rate.NOW...sadly, this mouse arrived not DOA, but FAULTY.The side buttons, did not "click". Basically, I pressed on them, but I had no output. When managing the mouse's software, I had set these buttons to serve as DPI adjusters. (higher/lower value), but I had no response from the mouse. After a few "hard" constant clicks, they finally started to respond and I could actually hear them click...but after playing for only 10 minutes, they went dead again and I found myself pressing them hard again, to get them to engage.That's the only CON I have. And I'm extremely picky with my gear.There is one NEUTRAL aspect that I'd like to mention, but IMO, it does not affect the performance.Most will argue that the Software included is  buggy or simply a pain in the butt, but I beg to differ, COMPARED to previous versions, Razer has really raised the bar and has improved their software by a long stretch. You can manage your mouse's performance, re-map the buttons and save such settings on any number of profiles. For example, (before I noticed the faulty buttons), like I mentioned above, I had the side buttons as DPI levels, which I saved under a profile I named BF4 and for desktop use I had them as backward/forward buttons for page and folder browsing, which I saved as Desktop profile....You can also select the number of DPI stages, etc.I have a Razer mamba 2013, and the software recognized the DeathAdder right away, switching to it without any hiccups.I had the chance to use the Logitech G500s, since I had the original G5, but after using the more balanced, weight free Mamba (two different versions), I found the G500s to be too bulky and its boom to high, forcing me to use more of a "claw" style, which unless you are used to, can be quite painful. But also, the G500s, lacks the shaped right/left buttons that both the DeathAdder and Mamba have, which makes the G500s kind of hard to use when sniping.That's my experience with this mouse. I hope this helps.
5	1390608000	Got one of these when I bought a new computer back in 2010 and it has been the best digital mouse I have ever had. After 4 years, one of the buttons was finally giving out. Have never had a mouse make it to 2 years let alone 4. Bought another one just like it and I love it. Hope to get another 4 years.
5	1390608000	Pro:Hand rest perfectly throughout the usageCool designDPI setting is goodCon:None I can think of.bought 4 month ago, no problem yet
3	1390521600	Like you, I myself, looked through numerous written and video reviews to try and find possible negatives about this mouse that could affect me. But none really looked into the negatives in detail.I am very picky about my mouse, esp for FPS gaming and in order for me to consider it I must see it has comfort and accuracy.Therefore, I narrowed down my choices to optical mouses. Mouses with optical sensors are essential for building muscle memory in fps games because there is no acceleration. This principle applies to entry level player all the way up to the pros.Since the Avago S3988 optical sensor in the Razer DA13 is one of the best out there I'll move on to the comfort.The mouse has a unique shape that will require users with no previous experience of the Razer DA lineup a day or two to adjust to. I don't feel it is suitable for palm grip but claw and finger tip users will feel fine. Full palm grip users will probably need to adjust to a hybrid between the palm and claw.Secondly, the mouse feet are very small (see customer image) thus it does not produce a smooth glide. You will notice it straight away if you never used Razer DA lineups before because no other gaming mouse on the market have mouse feet as small as these.Finally, there is no on-board memory. It is very inconvenient thus uncomfortable in a different way. Other decent gaming mouse brands (even budget brands) offer on-board memory with 5 custom profiles as standard.Below are imperfections I had not related to performance.1) Mouse shell/casing: Feels brittle thus not the best plastic.2) Scroll wheel: Squeaky when scrolled up.3) Scroll wheel: LED not symmetrical. I.e, thick LED stripe on right side and thin LED stripe on left side. I tried pushing the rubber more to the right but no luck. It was a bad cut out of the scroll wheel.4) Scroll wheel: Very dim LED even in the dark. It was more like a weak Tritium illumination like those used in dive watches that light up in the dark but even darker.If Razer asked me how to improve the DA13 I will give them 3 points.On-board memory, two extra buttons before scroll wheel for dpi etc and bigger teflon/PTFE feet.Thank you for your consideration
4	1390521600	Decided to put up this review after a week of usage, which is probably too short for a review on its durability on reliability in the long run, but I think there are a few reviews on that already, so I'll just state my opinion on the mouse. After a year or so from using my Armaggedon G11 mouse it started giving me problems with left mouse button and since the warranty had already worn out, I decided to get this mouse after some self research.The mouse feels very nice to touch and grip, especially the rubber grips which is a good design in my opinion. Its matte black material looks very alluring.  The mouse works great with a claw grip or the hybrid claw/palm grip, though its size is more suited for claw grip users and does an excellent job at it. Even after playing for 6-8 hours, I did not feel any discomfort from using it at all. Some users may feel that 5 buttons does not meet their required/expected number of mouse buttons, but I find it just right for me as I do not feel or really use beyond this number of mouse buttons as I'm not really a macro user. I can see an issue should the user require more buttons, but the keyboard does that job for me.The adjustable DPI settings in Razer Synapse helps one adjust the required DPI settings, but I find that I usually just stick to one setting without changing it afterwords, regardless of the games I play. As I play a variety of game genres, the mouse does a pretty good job, despite being catered for FPS players. Mouse clicks feel very responsive by providing sufficient feedback when clicking or using the scroll wheel.As for my cons, the mouse material smudges pretty easily, especially with liquid and it's very obvious. The space between the mouse construct and the rubber grips can accumulate gunk/dirt/whatever you call it pretty easily. It's especially bad if you eat with your hands and game at the same time, which I do occasionally. Also, the lighting options for the mouse comes with only two options: on/off without any other options for different effects, which is a minor thing to me. My last issue with the mouse is that I wish it were just a little bigger, as I'm pretty used to mice big enough to rest most of my palm on. All these are personal issues I find with the mouse, and have not encountered much of a technical issue with it that's to my disdain except that the software feels pretty basic, if you're into customising your own colours/etc of the mouse or looking for more options.All in all I would recommend this mouse as a gaming mouse to other players, for any game genres as it feels versatile versatile enough without being solely an FPS mouse, depending on your game of preference and button requirement. The most comfortable mouse I've used to date, slick (which sadly smudges easily but cleans as easily), stylish (for those who love Razer's theme, I like Indigo/Purple more) and feels great to use. Highly Recommended gaming mouse.
5	1390521600	Great mouse, works perfectly and feels extremely nice in your hand. Seems to be of great quality and will hopefully last me a wh
5	1390521600	researched thoroughly, as this was a present for an avid gamer. He loves it, and it allows him the freedom to fully enjoy all his activities to the fullest
5	1390521600	This mouse is great.  It just feels right in your hand, and it moves the cursor in a accurate natural way. It may seem like that is the job every mouse does, but trust me I used this mouse for about a week then as soon as I had to use a normal mouse again it just felt slow and unresponsive.If you are looking for a mouse of ANYTHING not just games, buy this mouse.  It is the best PC peripheral purchase I have made in a long time.
5	1390435200	Right out of the box I could tell I would like this product. I came from a Logitech M100, a standard computer mouse with 1000 dpi. Right after I plugged it into the computer, the mouse flew across the screen and I was amazed. I now run at about 3300 dpi.Pro:More dpi than I would ever needSoftware is very nice. Alot of ways to program your mouseCan turn of LEDs if you want (Can also auto turn off when the screen shuts off)Amazing feel for palm gripCons:Packaging had almost no wear, but there was just a tad. Not a big deal, it's hardly noticeable and doesn&#8217;t effect the mouse at all.
3	1390435200	The mouse worked great! Tracks really well and Synapse is okay when it works. But unfortunately the DeathAdder just wasn't for me. My grip sits somewhere between claw and palm. I tend to use my thumb and my pinkie plus ring finger to stabilize the mouse or pick it up (yes, I prefer picking up my mouse to reposition). My index and middle finger position in the claw grip (on the mouse buttons).If you use a mixed grip like me, the DeathAdder kind of pushes you to use one or the other which in my case I leaned more towards a claw grip. A grip that has proven mostly uncomfortable and awkward. But this is really an issue of preference and not performance.The mouse performed really well and the tracking is spot on. The Synapse 2.0 software leaves me wanting, but it gets the job done. I highly recommend this mouse for palm or claw grips.
5	1390435200	JUST PLAIN AMAZING, SMOOTH, CRISP, BEST RAZER COULD GIVE. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOUSE, CONGRATS TO RAZER ON THIS PRODUCT
5	1390435200	really like the pulsating razer logo sign. what was really werid that occurred to me is that when i placed it on the mouse pad before i activated synapse the mouse was out of control. but when i put the pad in the mouse was restored so far really liking this mouse
5	1390435200	First off-this mouse is awesome looking, as Razer products tend to be. When I bought it (about 7 months ago) I was skeptical- it was my first gaming mouse purchase. Would the &#34;ergonomic&#34; design make any difference? Did I even really need extra mouse buttons?I haven't looked back!It's extremely comfortable in the hand. I've had friends use my mouse and comment on how good it feels to use. I have the 2013 edition, and it's noticeably more comfortable than my boyfriend's standard edition, especially the texture of the surface of the mouse.The braided cable is long and feels very durable.This mouse was such a step up for me as a gamer. The extra utility it brings has been invaluable
5	1390435200	Pros: Excellent build quality. I really love holding this mouse with the rubber side grips. The 4G sensor provides more precision (and SMOOTHNESS) than previous Razer models, and makes certain games feel exactly like when I made the transition from optical to laser! The green LED is bright and the side-buttons are top quality that produce very satisfying clicks when depressed. The plastic surface that your palm rests on is a LOT better than the rubberized surface of my old Lachesis, as I no longer have a sweaty palm after an intense gaming session that lasts up to like 8 hours :DOther Thoughts: The DeathAdder is the best mouse I could have bought for this price point. Razer classifies the DeathAdder as &#34;Essential&#34; which is a tech word that I loathe, and honestly, would not even think to use to describe this mouse when I hold it in my hand. It's really that good.
1	1390435200	Pros:-One of the most ergonomic mice on the market-Side buttons are very easy to pressCons:-Consistently breaks within half a year of usageNote:I've owned 3 Deathadders and many more razer mice, and have had to RMA almost every single one. Left/right/side click switches stop working after a few months or sensor starts to jitter and skip
4	1390348800	Personally I love optical mice, and that is the only thing I will use to game now. As a person who has had multiple hundred dollar gaming mice, and has thrown them away because of the performance, I know my fair share of mice. The deathadder 2013 is a big step up from the 2012, and the black edition. First off, it's much lighter, so those who play with low sensitivity for fps know how much nicer that is. Next is the lift off distance is fixed. It no longer tracks when you lift the mouse up, since it is now an optical mouse, it has a perfect lift off distance.Pros:Perfect sensor. ( There is no spin bug where most optical mice fail. The spin bug is when you play on low sensitivity, then you flick your mouse and it throws your cursor very fast in a random direction).Solid lights(although that doesn't mean much to me).Great weightVery little amount of acceleration or deceleration. ( I have tested this in counter strike while flicking my mouse and it showed very little acceleration or deceleration while I did the test.Grip is quite good.The mouse fits claw grippers and palm grippers.Cons:I'm not a fan of the arc in the middle of the mouse rather than the arc that should be at the back of the mouse. (Although it allows people to palm grip/ claw grip).For those looking for a good optical mouse this is a great one . The only downside for me was the shape is not perfect, granted it is still very good. It is a good option as the sensor is perfect, and let me stress the perfectness. Literally the sensor is perfect.
5	1390348800	this thing is great... i've been a loyal logitech mouse user for many years and after an expensive keyboard, headphones & mouse(all razer) had broken after a short period of time, i was very skeptical about trying another product. but this thing has been really nice.. similar feel to the logitech mice i've been using and nice weight.. i play with my sensitivity low in all games so it just has to feel right and this is quite nice... right on par with top logitech mice... might even try another mouse if this one lasts a long time.. Razer has been redeemed in my eyes.
5	1390348800	Great replacement, stylish, very smooth, no complaints as of yet, definitely have everyone checking it out and asking about it
5	1390262400	This mouse is great, not just for gaming, but for any purpose you may have. It is extremely responsive, at a default 6500 DPI which is adjustable. The buttons are almost like hair triggers, and just feel great to click. People have seemingly complained that the scroll button has issues actually pressing it. I have experienced quite the opposite actually, and I think the mouse button is as easy to click as any other button. Another great thing about this mouse is the two custom buttons on the left side. These can be customized to any function, mouse or keyboard, using the Razer Synapse software. Other people seem to have complained about the Razer Synapse software required to take advantage of the macro keys and similar functions. All that is required is an internet connection. You simply install the software, and create an account, and on computer startup (without any annoying popups), the software will start, and log you in almost immediately. There is no reason you should not get this mouse.
4	1390262400	Bought the mouse last X'mas (Yes, I'm one of those sad people who get their own presents); it is definitely a step up from the generic Logitech mouse that I had been using (around 1000 DPI).The mouse is cool looking, with nice flexible cord, and an awesome fit for my large palm. I try to use it with Claw grip (not my natural grip, but they say its better for accuracy) - and got a real bad wrist pain very soon, so I switched back to palm grip, which is extremely comfortable using this mouse. Every shape and bump is designed to fit my palm perfectly when I use palm grip - which is weird because Razer website recommend claw grip on this mouse.... Perhaps for someone with giant hand?Clicking speed is lower than generic mouse. Definitely not for spammer. It is also dependent on Razer's software - Synapse 2.0 - to function on windows. When the Synapse is down or failed to detect the mouse, it stopped working at all. The plus side is that my mouse is working without acceleration even on Windows 7 because the software override windows' mouse acceleration setting.It is definitely a solid, basic gaming mouse. Large but light, stable and glide smoothly on the mousepad; and quite precise (I wish I have the muscle control to take advantage of the higher DPI) - but it hasn't help my gaming more than my old $10 Logitech mouse. Which I suppose is expected - I won't be a pro gamer by buying a mouse, no matter how much it costs. Blame the user, not the tool.
5	1390262400	I primarily bought the DeathAdder for gaming, but it's such a fluid mouse that I would recommend it for anyone and everyone. The fit is very comfortable and with the Razer Synapse application, the customization for the sensitivity and acceleration is fantastic. Great for gaming, graphic design, and pretty much anything else.
3	1390262400	The mouse works fine. Responsive, long lasting.But honestly for 60$ why would i bother.Theres much better mice out there, theres much better mice in the Razer line out even.For 60$ you might as well just get the Razer Naga 2013 edition for less with much more features.Theres nothing wrong with this mouse but this shouldnt be any more than like 20-30$ theres nothing special about it.
5	1390262400	This was a Christmas gift for my brother who is a gamer. After a lot of research, this seemed like the perfect one. This was his favorite Christmas gift. He loves it but it is a little too big. Not  anything that would have changed my mind about buying it though. It's perfect.
5	1390176000	Received item fast. Was a present for my boyfriend who loves to play games online. He says he really likes it!
5	1390176000	I received this item as gift. The first mouse was faulty and Amazon took care of it without a problem. The mouse itself works great and responds quite well. I've heard people have gotten hand cramps from switching to this shape of a mouse,  but I have not.  5/5
5	1390176000	This mouse is simply amazing. It fits my right hand very well, and is very comfortable to use. The new rubber side grips are a nice improvement from the older DeathAdder. I also like the simple design of the mouse for it has no gimmicks really, it just has 5 buttons. And with Synapse 2.0 the options feel endless. You are able to customize everything from the sensitivity to the lighting on the mouse. The braided cable and gold-plated USB are also nice touches as well. I so far have no complaints for it, and I've been using this mouse for about half a year now.
5	1390089600	As a religious death adder user, I can't suggest this mouse enough. My previous mouse being a death adder I don't really like the grip they added on the sides and the slight overall downsize in size but I couldn't imagine using another mouse.
5	1390089600	Ive been using $5 walmart mice for as long as I can remember. I cannot compare this to other &#34;good&#34; mice, but it . Amazing compared to what I've used before.
2	1390003200	My first Razer mouse was the Orochi and its results were less than stellar, it really disappointed me. However I decided to give Razer another chance and got the 2013 Deathadder because I've had good experiences with the Blackwidow 2013 Ultimate and the Goliathus Alpha Control. I wanted to see what all the wonderful reviews were about - if the Deathadder really lives up to them. I've been PC gaming since the early 90s, primarily in RTS and FPS genres, and I've owned a lot of gaming gear. I had to check the Deathadder out since there's a lot of praise for it in the gaming community. Here's what I've found:Pros* It is very ergonomic for right handed users - it's the most comfortable mouse I've ever used. I'm 5'10 and my hands are medium-large sized. This is a full size mouse that's great for palm grip. Whenever I use it, I don't want to take my hand off it because it feels great, it fits the contours of your hand really well. It's not overly sloped for your right hand, meaning that your hand doesn't have a tendency to slide down the mouse to the right.* The left/right mouse buttons are large enough for you to click to your heart's content. No more thin buttons and worrying about your fingers hitting the borders of the mouse instead of the buttons.* Slick mouse feet and good sensor with liftoff tracking. Not really a pro considering that every gaming mouse should have good tracking and ease of movement.* Long braided USB cord for durability and ease of movement.* The Synapse 2.0 software that allows you to make instant adjustments to your mouse. No waiting times.Cons* One of the things that disappointed me with the Orochi was how cheap and plastic everything felt. The same goes for the Deathadder. It just feels cheaply made with cheap plastic material. The Orochi only lasted me about a year before I had to replace it and I wouldn't be surprised if the same applies to the Deathadder. Although it looks sturdy, you have to try it out to feel what it's really like.* Another compliant that I've had since the Orochi, and now the Deathadder, is the mouse wheel. It wobbles from side to side, there is a significant amount of play when you try to move the wheel left/right. Feels cheaply constructed, not solid. When you move the wheel right, it actually clicks downwards. If you're wondering, although the mouse wheel moves left/right, it has no extra functions (like scrolling left/right) other than scrolling up/down and acting as a wheel click when you depress it. Speaking of the wheel, it's thinner than the previous version but I haven't found that to be an issue.* Back to the build quality again. When you click the left/right buttons and look at where they end up from the front of the mouse, the buttons don't line up with the rest of the mouse when they're depressed. It's a minor issue for most people but I pay a lot of attention to details and this is just another reason of how Razer continues to neglect build quality in its mice. Razer does a good job on its other products but continually come up short in its mice lineup.* The extra 2 buttons on the left side of the mouse feels cheap and you don't get a nice solid satisfactory &#34;click&#34; after pressing them. The position is also too far back for my tastes. I don't have long thumbs but these buttons feel like it's made for someone with long index/middle fingers but short stubby thumbs.* There is still a significant amount of travel for the left/right buttons, meaning after you depress them, they will have to travel a bit before you get the &#34;click&#34;, and then travel some more before bottoming out. On my Logitech mice, the &#34;click&#34; registers almost immediately after I press down on the buttons, but for Razer mice, you have to keep pushing down - more travel. Logitech's mice feel like they're mechanical while Razer's mice feel like they're membrane, if that keyboard reference helps at all.Other Considerations* If you have a bunch of other Razer peripherals that are green colored, the lights on the Deathadder will compliment your Razer setup. I personally don't care for the Razer lights, especially the logo that Razer puts on all of its products (comes off as tacky to me), but if you dig that kind of stuff, the mouse wheel had a dim green light and the Razer logo pulsates.* Some folks rave about the rubber grips and how it gives them more control. That's like telling me that sprinkling a little Parmesan cheese on your pizza makes it a lot better. The fact is the rubber texture are on the bottom left/right sides, there's only a little bit of it, and the difference it makes is minimal at best.* No weights. It's very light due to its plastic construction but there are no weights to customize the feel to your gaming style. If you're coming from a weighted mouse, this may take some getting used to.* Like most of Razer's mice, the clicking sounds of the left and right buttons are very different. The left click is very crisp and audible but the right click is more silent and subdued.* One of the good things about Razer is that it listens to its users and its products keep getting better after customers' feedback. It's not just improvements in technology (like 3.5G to 4G sensors) but also user comfort. So if you're in no rush to get this, you should hold out and wait for a better product from Razer if you can.* Razer got rid of glossy finishes on its devices for more control. Thank heavens, it's about time.I know a lot of pros and amateur gamers use this mouse and praise it, but after using it, other than the comfort, this mouse isn't as good as some of the other gaming mice on the market. Yes this mouse had it's pros but there are much better mice out there for the same price if not just a bit more. For example, so far every Logitech gaming mouse I've used are quality constructed - feels solid, lasts long, offers a lot of value added features. If Logitech is like a well-constructed and quality product like the iPhone 5, then Razer's mice is like the cheap plastic iPhone first generations you'll get off of eBay...and don't get me started about SteelSeries. I have a lot of Razer products and so far its mice are the only products in its lineup that is unsatisfactory - it's not 2005 anymore, Razer needs to catch up to its competition.
5	1390003200	i got it for Christmas is a awesome mouse like how it feels in the had , is really smooth and fast have no complain about it
5	1389916800	My grandson loves the way it works. And that's all that matters to me. He loves his custom built computer that I got him for Christmas
5	1389916800	Great ergonomic mouse.Great software for the Mac.Excellent buttons placement.Excellent weight (for me, it could be too lightweight to someone)
5	1389916800	I would recommend this product to everyone especially gamers. When handling the mouse you feel comfortable with ur palm and the size fits perfectly. I gave a 5 star!! Because the scroll is perfect and comfortable and at the same time when clicking it's pretty sensitive enough for me to play League of Legends.
5	1389916800	My step son loves to play Mine Craft and other on line games.  He loves the new mouse and all the different configurations he can use with mouse.
5	1389916800	Timing was excellent, considering the time it was ordered and received, right before Christmas!  I think this and the gaming keyboard was the best present he had for Christmas!
5	1389916800	Price wise is great! This is the first purchase that I made for a gaming mouse in almost 5 years. The gaming mouse that I had before is Microsoft sidewinder x8. This mouse is great and I love how the color fade in and fade out. Overall, it is awesome.
5	1389916800	The movement is smooth. I like the grips on the sides of the mouse. The scroll feels good. I would give this five stars.
5	1389916800	I don't have a whole lot of other mice to compare this to, mostly because this is a super high quality device that outshines anything else I've used. Solid build, good hand feel, good sensitivity. The scroll wheel is absolutely to die for.
4	1389830400	The mouse feels very well made, albeit, a tad long. If you like a fast mouse due to a higher DPI, this mouse is for you. It has no built in way to change the DPI of it like my older mouse, but I think I can get use to the feel of it.
5	1389830400	My gaming son received it for Christmas and loves it. He uses it everyday and is pleased with how it operates.
5	1389830400	This is my second Razer DeathAdder mouse.  The first one lasted four years.  I like this mouse as it is only what I need it to be.  Sure there are gamin mice out there with weights and 4 thumb buttons and macro this and game specific that.  It's all marketing rubbish.  I needed a fast, comfortable mouse to game with and also use everyday.  The DeathAdder is great for both.  Check out what mice the professional gamers are using.  It's not the one's you see them endorsing in the gaming magazines.
5	1389830400	This is my daily mouse replacing my laptop trackpad.  Have had it for a while, very happy with thus far for gaming, daily use, etc.
4	1389744000	I really like this mouse. I've never owned a gaming mouse before, and I figured, why not go straight to the best mouse/keyboard company out there for my first one.The mouse feels nice in my hand. The DPI settings are nice. The fact that I can change profiles by hitting a button on the bottom of the mouse is awesome. Overall I really like the mouse. It's left handed (I play left handed thanks to left handed parents, even though I'm right handed) And I was over-joyed when I found out Razer made a left handed mice. In a world dominated by right handed people, it's hard to find a comfortable mouse thats for right handed people but feels good in the left hand. That being said theres one problem. Most left handed mouse users...don't normal click with the right and alt click with the left. They click the same way righty's do. left click = Normal click,  right click = alt click. So it was annoying to find out it was defaultly set to the opposite. Despite changing it, and it being okay in windows, in games it still registers the opposite and I don't know how to change that. Battlefield 2 won't stop despite the fact that I tell it to invert mouse settings. Battlefield 3 is the only game that when I tell it not to use 'Raw mouse data' that it actually pays attention to Windows mouse settings. It's annoying and I don't like it. And the Razer Synapse program doesn't help. It just goes 'Oh its a left handed mouse..use it this way...stupid..&#34;For those reasons I give it a 4 out of 5. If I could figure out how to change it so every game just automatically detects the normal click style, I'd give it a 5 out of 5.
5	1389744000	It's about time I got a new mouse! My last one was a measly $8 mouse that I got when I built my first computer back when I was fresh out of high school. That one lasted 8 years. Man was I missing out. This Razer Deathadder is from mouse heaven. I play League of Legends and L4D2 the most. SUCH A DIFFERENCE! I have small female hands (probably because I'm female) and this mouse FEELS perfect. It fits. This is the most comfortable mouse I've tried. I'm so happy with my purchase and will definitely recommend it to anyone looking to get a new gaming (or not) mouse!
1	1389744000	First, the good: It fit my hand perfectly, as all Razer mice I've owned has. DPI is above average, although very expensive for it. Has many programmable buttons. Very smooth action on buttons and scroll wheel.The bad: Left click broke after owning it for four months, which is definitely a record for me. I didn't realize I was such a &#34;hardcore&#34; gamer. The software they pair with the mouse to configure it is awful. It requires an always active internet connection, requires registration with them, and displays an annoying connecting message when Windows is booted.Bottom line: The hardware itself was great while it lasted, which wasn't anywhere near what I'd come to expect from Razer. The combo driver and configuration software is horrible. To replace it I bought a Logitech with slightly less DPI, but just as many buttons (hopefully they'll last longer!) for much less.
5	1389744000	I can't say enough.  I use it all the time.  It really does make me a better player.  The software associated with it is great but not overly difficult to learn and the mouse is simple enough to attract even novice gamers.  The thing feels great in your hand.  The response is well... just get it.  You will be glad you did.  Best mouse ever... EVER!!!!!!
5	1389657600	This mouse is great for someone who likes to game a lot. Using the synapse software you are able to adjust your sensitivity to your liking. Also you are able to make macros with the software and map it to the mouse buttons. The mouse is an improvement from last years deathadder. They choose a plastic with rubber grips instead of gloss which was a fingerprint magnet. Personally because i have large hands it feels very natural in my hand. Would recommend this mouse to anyone who games a lot and wants some extra buttons to map things to.
4	1389657600	This was a very we'll made gaming mouse for computer gamers that are just starting out .thats why it not five stars
5	1389657600	My husband (a gamer) and I bought this for his little brother, who is also a gamer. He loves it!
3	1389657600	Initially, I loved this mouse. However it has started double-clicking in the right button click, which is an unfortunate experience in the MOBA games I use this for. I contacted Razer about it and they suggested RMA, but paying out of pocket to ship the thing back to Razer and being without a mouse for at least a few weeks is far and away not worth it. I suppose I'll continue using it until the double-click becomes too annoying to bear and I'll buy a different mouse.
3	1389657600	THe mouse dpi and movement is great. ALL is great but after a &#34;GOOD&#34; amount of use (CSGO, Dota, etc) the right click gets worn and then after just a small force it clicks automaticly ....  Good overall mouse but lacks on the right click mouse after 6 months use. Not just this mouse but Razer is known for this problem . I personally have (3) things from Razer and both deathadder has happend.
5	1389657600	So I just got the Razer DeathAdder 2013 Ergonomic PC Gaming Mouse as a Christmas gift. I figured I can write a review since I have had time to use it now. First off, the mouse looks very nice itself. It has lights that glow on the side of the scroll wheel and a glowing razer logo that goes on and off (which annoyed me at first, but I got used to it). The cord is long, about 7 feet, and has a nice strong material. Next is the feeling. It fits in my hand perfectly, but I don't think all could say this, considering I have small hands. It has comfortable rubber grips on the side that haven't bothered me. There are 2 buttons on the side for web navigation, which is useful, but I often times use it for a button in a game, for example, in Far Cry 3 the top button knifes and the bottom one heals. The mouse moves on my wooden desk is fine, it doesn't have any problems, though I would like to get a mouse pad. The mouse has given me no problems and I would recommend this to any gamer or even a casual user who wouldn't mind spending a bit more money for a mouse. I will consider buying the DealthStalker as well as other razer products. I am extremely satisfied.
1	1389571200	I love the ergonomic feel of this mouse, and when it worked the precision was fantastic.However, this mouse comes with synapse 2.0 which is terrible, but must be used to set up the mouse at the very least. I figured by removing the software after installation I would be free from trouble, but that was not the case. The mouse would slow down games I was in. It would periodically stop working alltogether, and periodically when I rebooted the buttons would stop working.After 2 days of trying every fix I could think of or google, I gave up and had to send it back. With proper software this would be the best mouse on the market, but I do not believe this is a high priority for Razer.
5	1389571200	I like the fact this is a gaming mouse with only a few extra buttons. That was what I was looking for. Perfect for DOTA push to talk mic use so your team mates can hear you when you're drafting...
5	1389571200	Seriously, if you've never used anything besides those mice that come with your computer you just need to go ahead and lay down a little bit of cash for something that's actually nice.  Yeah, the basic ones work, but not like one of these, especially if you have multiple displays.
5	1389484800	i bought this mouse because when i was gaming i would notice my mouse skipping and missing targets this mouse will improve your game
5	1389484800	I had the original DeathAdder, which served me beautifully for almost 4 years. The left click button eventually gave out, so I got this one as a replacement.The top surface is slightly more textured than on the previous version, and it has these lovely rubber/silicon grips on the sides where your thumb and pinky and ring finger rests.My only complaint is that they've switched over to green for the lighting so it doesn't match my older BlackWidow keyboard! All-in-all, I would highly recommend this to anyone looking for a new mouse. It's ergonomic, responsive, and very comfortable.
5	1389484800	Works great and came in a timely fashion! Love it! Highly recommend it with no complaints. Great purchase for gaming or everyday use if you are looking for a easy-to-use and cool-looking mouse!
4	1389484800	I give it 4 stars because it does everything I could ever need a mouse to do. It is precise, the macros are tactilly  pleasing to push, the lights are vibrant, and the weight and size is great for my large hands. Further more I enjoy the line of plastic along the side where your thumb goes that reminds me of a bike handle but that may just be me.I deducted a star because I have had the macros change without warning on more than one occasion. Most of the time it is because I am switching games and I am assuming it causes some kind of sub-routine that restarts the mouse. Its and easy fix but a tad annoying.I would recommend this mouse for a gamer who wants a good mouse, not one of the transformers but a mouse that they can use and depend on for quite some time.
5	1389398400	Ergonomic style mouse that has great feel, great movement, and super accuracy.  Perfect for any occasion from office to home to PC GAMING.  Has a good grip with custom 'rubberish' griping on the sides to help keep full control.  The comfort curves fit right into your hand(s) (as it can be purchased for left handed personnel). Just the right amount of buttons which can all be assigned to your needs (minus the original 'click' button). A great tool for anything needed, image editing, graphics design, digital drawing, and of course Gaming.  Worth in every way everything spent.
4	1389398400	The mouse is very light and coupled with a Goliathus Control mousepad, the experience is fluid to complement my StarCraft II play.  The only problem I encountered with the mouse was via the software Razer Synapse.  The software would not change the DPI settings all of the time when I pressed the scroll wheel button (which is what I had programmed it to do).  I think the sleep function or consistently removing and reinserting the mouse caused the Synapse software to incorrectly recognize the mouse.A nuisance was that the mouse was hard to hold for my pinky (I am a right handed mouse user).  I switch between the claw and fingertip grip and this mouse did well for that habit. The thumb buttons are great for drag scrolling on the map and I really the sensor is very responsive which I appreciate. The mouse buttons seems a little cheap to me at first use, but they are great after a while for how quick they are and light. I have had a couple of misclicks and such, but I do believe these were caused from my own holding of the mouse.
1	1389398400	Well, I bought this thing for my son. We got it really fast and were impressed with the speed of service. Unfortunately, that was the only good thing about it. We plugged it in and the computer failed to recognize it, so we plugged it into another computer and it wouldn't work their either. After downloading all the software required to run this thing (why can't you just plug it in and it works like every other mouse in the world?) we finally found out that it was defective. We sent it back and received a new one. This one actually works after downloading the required software. The problem is, it doesn't work any better and is no quicker than a $10 mouse that I can get at any electronics store. BIG DISAPPOINTMENT!
5	1389312000	Very good mouse so far, have been using the previous Deathadder and felt like it was time to upgrade to something newer and bought DeathAdder 2013. So far very happy. The mouse is comfortable and feels like it was well made and comes with good software that offers a good amout of customization. 5/5 would buy again.
5	1389312000	If you have a big hand and/or use a palm or claw grip this is an excelent gaming mouse for you. The 2013 edition DeathAdder can be set all the way up to 6400 DPI and can be configured to be lowered to your preference. So far I have loved every Razer mouse that I have bought.
3	1389312000	Ok I bought this last year apparently best buy said this is good for gaming, much more than wireless mice. Upon using it, it really was fine. A few months later it wouldn't work properly without a mousepad. As of now I am not home, naturally I didn't bring my mousepad. I ended up having to use my laptops built in mice. I have to figure out where to get a good makeshift mousepad somewhere.
5	1389225600	I'm a very big gamer and built my PC a year ago. Up until now, I have been using this $30 Microsoft wireless mouse. I decided to upgrade, and bought this.It just arrived today (3 days before it was scheduled to!). I must say, it's fantastic. It looks good on my desk, and has a great feel. Installation is simple and the software is easy to figure out (I'm somewhat technologically-challenged, and I had no problem with it). The chord reaches all the way around the back of my desk with room to spare, so if you are worried about wire length, don't be.Pros:SturdyLooks really goodAwesome lighting and breathing effectSoftware easy to figure outErgonomic feel- fits medium-sized hands wellVery sensitiveCheap but not you-get-what-you-pay-for cheapComes in an aesthetically-pleasing box with stickers and a professional and well-made guide and some cool official paperworkCons:Make sure the software is up to date or it will not work properlyFeels kinda big (my smaller hands easily fit around it, but strain a tiny bit)Only two buttons on the sideA bit picky with mouse-pads and hard to calibrateThe pros really out-weigh the cons on this. If you want a great mouse for a cheap price, I'd definitely go with this one. It's the same price as a peasant controller and is much better.
4	1389225600	I purchased this for one of my boys.  He really likes the look of the mouse and says it works better than the Logitech G series it replaces.  One complaint he had was that it seemed like it would jitter at odd times.  So we re-downloaded the software and ran the surface verification or whatever.  Since then he hasn't complained about the jitter.All in all, a winner.
5	1389225600	I had a lot of doubts about Razer products, thinking they were over priced and low quality, and I had a budget to consider.But after dealing with a mouse that was causing me so much pain, I decided I needed to switch. As an avid League of Legends player, I needed a mouse that would stand up to my level of APM (actions per minute).Most of the pros used Razer mice, so I thought it might improve my gaming if I had similar peripherals.Sure enough, the moment I grasped this mouse, I could feel no more pain.The feeling of holding the mouse was as if it became an extension of my own hand. It felt natural.The swift, and customizable, dpi speed was just what I needed. The clicks are responsive to my needs, and I noticed a significant difference to my gameplay immediately.I would highly recommend this mouse to any individual with a budget, and is a passionate gamer. This mouse is a testament to Razer's word; &#34;For gamers, by gamers&#34;.For these reasons, and many more, I give a 5/5 star rating.
5	1389225600	Very Very Good Feel. This came in 5 days suprisingly fast and mouse is good quality. And all u do is plug it in no setup needed
5	1389225600	So, this mouse is amazing. It's most definitely top of the line, and if you are looking to play games such as league of legends or others similar to that, it is perfect. Great durability, very responsive when scrolling as well as when clicking, works instantly with your computer, and the cord is nearly impossible to break off. Also very cool design, although it is rather large you can use it as both a gaming mouse, and one for practical everyday use. Great product by Razer, and I will be getting more of their merchandise in the future.
5	1389139200	Works great...would buy again...brought gaming to a whole new level!!!  I would recommend it to all the serious gamers out there.
5	1389139200	What a great mouse, very responsive and smooth action. I can understand why it's the mouse that gamers prefer. Great device!
5	1389139200	So far, its been perfect control and great movement... I'm not a hardcore gamer, but I've been playing dota/FPS games for along time and it has been great!
5	1389139200	I have to admit I am a &#34;If it isn't broke don't fix it&#34; kind of guy. That being said, I have been an a gamer for years and my mouse of choice was Logitech.  I saw this mouse while Christmas shopping and decided to give it a chance, and I am glad I did.  It has a long braided cord which is nice and sturdy and the logo on the mouse itself is lit but slowly pulses.  I am sure some will not like this, but it doesn't bother me at all. Its ergonomic design allows your hand to simply rest on the mouse without gripping. It has great response too. Would definitely consider other Razer products in the future.
5	1389139200	I needed something more ergonomic and responsive for my everyday computing. I like to game, but that's not why I bought this mouse. I work on a mac and their hardware just isn't conducive to a healthy computer working environment, so I bought this &#8211; plugged it in no problems &#8211; and it feels great. You can tell this company puts a lot of thought and care into their products. They even let you turn the lights off of the mouse!
1	1389139200	Received the mouse and Mouse button 4 was getting stuck. Amazon sent out a replacement mouse overnight, and Mouse button 4 was completely recessed and could not even be pushed. 2 failed mice in 24 hours. I will never buy another Razer product again.
4	1389139200	This mouse really is a great mouse, for the price tag you would be hard to find another mouse to match it. It has a comfortable shape and pleasant aesthetic . I use it mostly for FPS and RTS games and haven't had any issues with response. However - one of the side buttons on my particular mouse has a tendency to stick occasionally when I press it. Other than that, the mouse is great and I can confidently recommend it.
5	1389139200	excellent best mouse ever for gaming. work as promised, accurate and sensitive. highly recommended !!! best value for the money!
5	1389139200	it is an awesome and comfortable gaming mouse. Its got a nice, long, cord and I love all the helpful programmable buttons on the sides
5	1389052800	It was ordered for my son and he seems to be enjoying it.  He says its just what he was looking for.
5	1389052800	It is a mouse that does mouse things and works very well on video games, bang bam boom smash! Taco?
4	1389052800	It's great and everything, love the green LED.I really don't know anything about mice's specifications, but tbh, i don't think there is much of a difference between this mouse and those middle priced mice out there that you can buy for less than 30$.. in terms of performance.There might be something worth the extra 30$ (other than the LED, and the gold plated USB head) that i missed but i still haven't noticed it..
5	1389052800	This is my favourite Razer mouse .I Upgraded from the old one and I'm pleased with that !very recommend .
5	1389052800	It seems people critically blow synapse and this mouse way out of proportion. I downloaded synapse and am currently using the DeathAdder right now. It works perfectly. I am also a mac user, and am experiencing no problems. The mouse is extremely comfortable, and tracks very well. That's about as much as I could ask for.
5	1389052800	I've been PC gaming since the mid 90's, and since then have gone through dozens of keyboard and mouse combinations. In that time, a few models have stood out as delivering excellent performance at a reasonable price. One of those models is the Logitech G9x, and the other is the Razer DeathAdder 2013; the Razer model replaced my aging G9x, which I now use at the office.When gaming, I use a combination of palm and claw grip, and have been known to skate the mouse. The DeathAdder's textured coating ensures that I maintain a good grip when changing grips and skating, and my grip doesn't slick when my hands get sweaty. There are also rubber grips on either side of the mouse, where the left thumb and right pinky (sorry lefties) rest, which also hep with grip and comfort. The overall construction of the mouse feels sturdy, with crisp button clicks and wheel scrolling. The included software is also great, mostly because it allows you to set it up, and stays out of your way. Some folks aren't a fan of the cloud-enabled features of the software, and luckily these features can be disabled.There really isn't a lot else that needs to be said about this mouse for non-gaming activities. The same qualities that make it stand out as a gaming mouse are also applicable to basic productivity. The mouse feels comfortable in the hand, pointer is precise, construction is solid. I see a lot of hate for Razer on message boards, and a lot of that is because of the company's marketing practices. Basing my review strictly on the cost, performance and value of the mouse, I have to go with 5/5 stars. Much mouse, very pointy. Wow!
5	1388966400	Very good tracking and great feel. It was very easy to set up and get going with Razer's Software. Great buy!!
5	1388966400	I've used many mice over the years. Mostly Logitech. I've always wanted to try a Razer mouse and I'm glad I started with this one because it's simply awesome. I definitely recommend it to anyone in the market for an amazing gaming mouse.
5	1388880000	This mouse feels like a part of my hand, and is a huge upgrade over my old hp standard mouse. Playing L4D2 and CS:GO never felt smoother!
5	1388880000	This mouse feels great.  Very ergonomic, very comfortable, and very responsive.  Tempted to buy another and carry it around with my laptop.
5	1388880000	Really enjoying this mouse after having used a cheap mouse for a couple years.  This mouse is a little larger which feels good.  Big fan of Razer!
4	1388793600	This is a very cool mouse, I love the look and feel. It fits my hand perfectly, great for FPS's. I gave it 4 stars because I wish it was a little heavier, it is very light for what I am used to. Adjusting to that is easy, however.
5	1388707200	Amazing feel and precision. Great optical mouse for gaming. The wire has a braided protector over it to add some rigidity.
5	1388707200	This mouse is one of the most comfortable mice I have ever used. I am a palm-grip gamer and over my years of FPS gaming I have used an mx518 by Logitech, an old first generation DeathAdder and a Logitech G500. This one is by far the best in terms of comfort and ergonomics.I loved my first generation Death Adder but the glossy plastic was uncomfortable to the touch and promoted sweaty hands. That's been totally fixed in this version and Razer added rubber grip pads on each side for even more grip. I love the feel and spacing of the side buttons. On my previous mouse (G500) the front-most thumb button was too far for my thumb to reach but I do not have that problem on the DeathAdder 2013. Also one more concern I had on the original Death Adder was that the mouse wheel was quite flimsy and would frequently need 2 clicks to move one notch on the screen. Not so with this version thus far (knock on wood!).In any case it's a great mouse.
2	1388707200	I've been using this mouse for a few months, so I think I have a good amount of experience to write a reasonable review.The mouse feels great - very comfortable, but the Razer Synapse software on the Mac is horrendous. Unfortunately it's the only way to use the extra buttons on the mouse; other tools like USB Overdrive say they can't work with the mouse. A few of the problems I've experienced:1. Unless Synapse is installed on your machine, the USB polling on the mac is too high, thus causing the cursor to skip across the screen. I've never had this problem with other USB or BT mice.2. You must register for an online account to use it.3. Synapse has been known to crash, peg the CPU, constantly open itself4. Synapse per-app functions are a good idea, but I found it inconsistent (Why a green &#34;Safari&#34; flashes up on screen every time I switch to Finder, I don't know)Given my experiences with this mouse on the Mac, I will never buy another Razer product again unless it is usable without the driver (no skipping or other weird things).NB: To fix the skipping mouse, make sure Synapse is installed and reduce the mouse polling rate to the lowest setting - 125.
5	1388707200	I have a total of 3 of these one I just retired from extreme use (at least 8 hours a day of heavy use) they are well worth the money and hold up to a lot of use. they also come with a shielded cord that makes it a very nice looking mouse. I did wear the primary clicker out on it before it failed but that was after 5 years of use.
4	1388707200	I just bought this mouse and so far i am mostly loving it i love the feel of it i love the light but i wish the razer logo stayed it fades in and out like its breathing its cool but i wish it stayed lit i also dont like having to go download razer synapse to adjust the sensitivity add a button for that to make it easier :( overall good mouse but will upgrade to the razer naga when i get the money
5	1388707200	swapped from logitech g5. should have done it sooner. i tried a high end razer mouse and it sucked (mamba i think) but this one is the real deal. simple and it works perfectly so far.
2	1388707200	This mouse was just terrible the left click just stops working not worth your money my uncle bought it then the left click stopped and so i took it off his hands to see if it would work for me but no. lucky for me i had a CM Storm Sentinel Advance handy and it works much better trust me!
5	1388620800	The first thing you'll notice when using this mouse, it's how great it feels on your hand. If you're a palm grip type of person, this mouse will fit your hand like a glove.I've tried plenty of gaming mice before, with multiple buttons, flashy designs, features that will &#34;improve&#34; your gaming. But this mouse stands above the rest, because it's a humble mouse, with a simple purpose, feel good in your hand and work with precision.The overall quality of the material is high, it shows they placed emphasis on design. The structure feels sturdy, and the weight feels hefty, but not enough to feel uncomfortable on the wrist if you lift your mouse during games.The coating on the upper surface is smooth and hard, and I haven't had an issue with it collecting sweat or dirt after prolonged sessions of gaming. The sides grips are made out of a different material, thicker and more rubbery, which is good since the spot around the thumb is where wear usually shows up first. There might be an issue of dirt collecting on the hard rubber if you like to grasp you mouse with thumb and ring finger, but it's easy to clean.The software on Razer's part is excellent, everything worked on first try, and the software doesn't lag like many other mouse software I have tried. You do have to install Razer Synapse to get the best out of the mouse, but there's an offline mode built in and you don't have to use the cloud features if you don't want to.This is the kind of mouse you might want to compliment with a nice mousepad. I use a SteelSeries 4HD, which is a hard surface mousepad, and the mouse has smooth feedback on it, even at high DPI.
5	1388620800	I bought this as a replacement for my  ancient Logitech G5 that bit the dust.Had no idea what i had been missing !GREAT GAMING MOUSE !
5	1388620800	Hasn't failed me yet and has been the best responsive mouse I have owned so far. Best investment and durability has lasted more than most of my precious mice.
5	1388534400	5/5 I love it. Love the synapse control. Very customizable. This mouse combined with the deathstalker. Brilliant. (Too much Dr. Who) ^_^
5	1388534400	Far better reliability compared to laser mice. Fits well in my hands, and glides well across my mouse pad. Kind of wish it had dedicated sensitivity buttons, but I already knew it didn't.
4	1388534400	This mouse is great - it's a no frills, high-performance piece of gear that feels great and does exactly what it's supposed to - but I had a great deal of trouble setting it up out of the box. A few Google searches later, I stumbled upon on some very helpful forum threads that led me to USB overdrive, which solved most of the weird acceleration curve issues. However, having used this same mouse before on Windows, I was frustrated by how difficult it was for me to set up the mouse. I would have given it five stars had it not been for the hassle on my Mac.
2	1388534400	I purchased this thinking it would be a great replacement to my logitech G5 and G500 due to constantly getting the dreaded broken cable problem. Sadly I was wrong.The bad parts about it is there is no weight adjustment and the accuracy and control of this mouse is quite subpar, especially in dota 2 and fps games. The accuracy and control of my cheap logitech m90 was much better. The rubber grips on the side also feel weird. The shape is quite nice though, but I feel that for a mouse this big combined with a full palm grip, you need to be able to adjust the weight, and the weight of this mouse definitely needs adjusting.I ended up selling this mouse cheap and purchased a steelseries sensei instead. Gamers beware, dont be fooled by all the high marks this mouse gets, as most of the time they never review them on how they perform in actual games.
5	1388534400	For anyone who hasn't seen this: [...]It's a guide for helping you pick out a mouse based on the way you tend to hold it.I'm a right-handed claw grip, so one of the first ones I looked at was this DeathAdder because it's a very popular mouse, and it fits the grip style I use. I found that I could easily let my hand rest in the position I typically use or any others without any trouble. The matte plastic surface feels nice under my hand, and as an added bonus, never looks smudged like my last Razer that had a shiny surface.I was a little hesitant to purchase it (even though I ultimately did) because I'm a woman, and I was concerned that the mouse would be too big for my hand. This hasn't been an issue at all for me. My last mouse was a little smaller, which I did appreciate, but it also came at the cost of being rather light. This one is a little bigger, but it's not uncomfortable. In fact, I'm happier with this one because it's somewhat heavier. Given that I tend to keep my mouse on a higher sensitivity for gaming, the added weight makes it such that I don't accidentally whip my cursor across screen. It helps me move my hand much more carefully so my movements are more accurate.The green color is a nice bonus, but it wasn't a huge component of my purchase. I just liked that it glowed green (and was a nice complement to my keyboard that glows magenta).I'm also really hopeful with regards to the Razer Synapse. Being able to keep multiple profiles on my computer based on what game I'm playing is going to be super useful.Amazon has this mouse for a great price, and from experience and word of mouth, I know that both companies have great customer service.Bottom line: I like it. It fits my needs. You should definitely consider it.
4	1388534400	This mouse is true to its word of being very ergonomic. While the mouse is very light it feels very solid and well built It does not feel cheaply made at all. I suggest you use a flat mousepad with this mouse.My only problem with the mouse is that you have to install some minor software that automatically starts whenever the computer is turned on with the mouse plugged in, but overall not a big deal.Good solid gaming mouse, feels well built but light
5	1388448000	Grip was great, mouse perfect fit for the hand. Good buy, definitely. Great for the casual gamer that wants a gaming mouse but lacks money.
5	1388448000	This mouse melts into your hand and after a few days it will be like a part of your hand. I play all kinds of games FPSs, RPGs, Action, Third person shooters and most need the mouse inputs to be spot on; with the hair trigger L and R buttons and the high DPS the DeathAdder can't be beat.
5	1388448000	I use a MacBook Pro and this works on the Mac side and on the Windows side very flawlessly. It's comfortable and the cord is braded and doesn't kink like older cords.Would recommend to anyone!
5	1388361600	Works better than I expected. I am not fan of having to run software all the time to adjust the DPI of the mouse. Would prefer a button on the mouse and just let it roll that way. It feels good in my hands, wire doesn't bother me and it is accurate while gaming and working.
1	1388361600	1 Unplugged Logitech Mx118 mouse.2 Plugged In DeathAdder 2013.3 Lost mouse control4 Unplug DeathAdder.5 Plug in Logitech.6 Still no Mouse Control.7 Plug in POS Steel Series Sensei = nothing.8. CTR & ALT & DEL / Tab to Shutdown.9 Reboot.10 Navigate to support page.11 Support Page is unresponsive (i'm also on youtube streaming so it's no my net).12 Rebox the death adder which has poor win 8 reviews and ship back with SteelSeries Sensei.13 Resume quest for aged Mx518 replacment.
5	1388361600	My first gaming mouse and the greatest mouse.  Really like it. Tossed away all the fancy wireless (Microsoft and Logitech) mice and keyboards.
4	1388361600	I'm really picky about the mouse I use, like insanely picky. I stuck with an old Microsoft mouse for almost a decade because I can't stand the way most mice feel in my hand or the the way their buttons work. Now those days are over because I've been using the Razer Deathadder and this may be the best wired mouse you can buy.First off all the ergonomics are top notch. I just feels right when you rest your hand on it, some mice try to do a more streamlined or simple design (Apple, cough cough) and it's a terrible experience but the Deathadder conforms to your hand. If you have smaller hands it might be too big or at least bigger than what you need. I'm 6ft tall and have larger than average hands so having a mouse that's on the bigger side is great for me. The materials Razer used also just feel great. The matte black plastic has a unique tactility to it and the rubber grips on the sides for your thumb and pinky work surprisingly well and feel even better than the other material.Then there's the buttons. Their sensitive and easy to push but not so sensitive that you accidentally push them all the time. They have a really satisfying &#34;snapping&#34; action, they just work the way all mice should.The scroll wheel works great as well, it isn't totally free spinning, it has a &#34;stepping action&#34; every 1/32 of a turn that you can feel when you spin it. My only complaint about the scroll wheel is that it doesn't have any horizontal capabilities, which I knew before I bought it so this is only half a complaint, I just wish Razer would offer a mouse that could scroll horizontally, it would be awesome in Photoshop.My only actual complaint about this product has nothing to do with the mouse itself, just the software you can download from the Razer site. I'm a mac user so your experience might be different with Windows but in OSX the mouse driver would pop up randomly after I'd installed it, which is annoying. It also put a big Green Razer icon at the top of my task bar in the finder&#8230; Seriously Razer? Is there anything less necessary than this? On the positive note adjusting the settings and lighting on the mouse worked great, and it seems like the Razer Mouse app saves the settings to the mouse itself. When I took it from one computer to another the sensitivity and lighting settings I choose stayed with the mouse. I had assumed I would need the software on every computer but that not the case.In ConclusionThis is hands down the best mouse I've ever used. It's really converted me to a Razer fan. The mouse feel right in your hand, and it works exactly as you want it to. The software does offer plenty of room to customize the settings, way more than you need in fact, and if Razer could just take care of some of the annoying things in their Mac App I'd give it 5 stars rather than 4.
5	1388275200	This mouse is perfect for gaming. Ergonomic grip is really good for big handed people and it feels just right. I like how you can customize the buttons to any keyboard/mouse shortcut, specially the side buttons. You can even disable them. The enhanced DPI gives you more accuracy over your targets. The only minor disappointment I have is that the left-click button is little noisy, but that's okay. For the price it's a great mouse and I would recommend it to any gaming enthusiast.
5	1388275200	It looks slick, i always love the ergonomic shape of it. Even since i started using Habu, great for comfort, as my hand seems to tire more easily than others. A comfortable grip is vital.The price is mid-ranged, infusing affordability with comfort and quality. Lovely =)
5	1388275200	This mouse fits very comfortably in my hand and the cord is long enough to reach anywhere on my desk! The buttons are solid and have a nice click to them.
5	1388188800	It feels very comfortable. Well-designed in the hand-shape. If there is one more button for controlling the DPI will be perfect.
5	1388188800	has 6400 dpi and is best for first person shooters. Love this mouse! if anyone needs a new one buy this on e now!
5	1388188800	Bought this to replace my Logitech G700 mouse which was giving my finger some carpal tunnel like symptoms. I like that the Razer Deathadder is decently large (I'm 5'11&#34; and have big hands), the design is slick, and it clicks very nicely. While it only has 2 buttons on the side, I consider that to be a plus because my old G700 had way too many buttons that I never used! Maybe if I was still into MMOs as heavily as I used to be the 700 would have been better for me, but for a game like League of Legends it's really not all that necessary. I like the glowing Razer logo on the mouse and the ergonomic shape. I have a claw grip and it feels really good, those that palm mice would also have a nice time with this mouse. The cable is braided, and very long which I like. Mouse feels pretty light though so those that like heavier mice should go for something else.One complaint I have is that Razer Synapse 2.0 is a pretty flawed software. Crashes a lot and is not that easy to use.I got this mouse for $39 shipped which is a pretty good deal. The 2014 should be coming in soon anyway so I expect to see the price go down.Love this mouse!Other than that....not much else to say.
5	1388188800	People complain about Razer's build quality, but my deathadder after almost a year of use and a couple of drops is going strong.
5	1388188800	Awesome mouse for the money so very happy with I purchase any one who likes to play on PC or even search the INTERNET, should search for THIS MOUSE! :)
5	1388188800	I had the wireless razor mouse and decided to purchase a wired version.  This one gets the job done.  It is light to the touch and accurate.  It has a comfortable rubber thumbrest on the side.  Wish razor would make a wireless keyboard then I would be set.
5	1388102400	So far its doing well. I mostly play League of Legends and i prefer this mouse over a Razer Hex-Naga. We will see about his durability in a year.Thanks!
3	1388102400	The bottom line: If you're a lefty and you &#34;mirror-click&#34; (right button for left click, and vice versa), you'll love this mouse. If you're like me and click like a righty but move with your left hand, then it might drive you crazy.Details:I'm a lefty and I've used this mouse for about a year. 75% of the time, it's excellent... the &#34;feel&#34; is perfect, and ergonomically it's the best mouse I've used as a lefty. What ultimately led me to abandon it may sound minor, but ultimately was a very frustrating design choice made by Razer. It has to do with the hard-wired reversal of the mouse buttons. I'll explain in depth:When designing this mouse, Razer decided to make it a *mirrored* version of their right-handed Deathadder. Meaning, they hard-wired the mouse buttons to be swapped: the right mouse button is &#34;left click&#34; and left button is &#34;right click&#34;. This is very unnatural for me, as the muscle memory I've developed over the years is used to clicking left for left and right for right. This is the case for all the lefties I know... I don't know any who click right for left and vice-versa.So you're probably thinking, &#34;Well that's a simple fix. Just go into your Windows settings and swap the mouse buttons.&#34; And that's exactly what I did, which completely solves the problem 75% of the time. What about the remaining 25%...?Well, certain games seem to take their inputs directly from the hardware drivers, bypassing or ignoring the Windows &#34;buttons swapped&#34; setting (I'll list a few of these games below). This not only necessitates remapping buttons within these games, but it makes things confusing... &#34;I want to click the left mouse button to shoot so I'll make sure the setting reads 'right mouse button' when I click the left mouse button.&#34; Ugh. Even after this is done, it still won't apply to menus and the like. And even worse, in rare cases, it *still* won't work... for example, in Battlefield 3 I could never get the helicopter gunner fire/zoom to behave the way I wanted it to, even though it worked in all other vehicles and for infantry. I just had to get used to clicking left to zoom and right to fire in that one, specific case.One fix I tried for this was to create two profiles within the Razer driver which would swap the mouse buttons as needed with a hotkey. However, I could never get the hotkey to work, and clicking through to select it became annoying enough that I just stopped doing it. (To this point, my only other criticism of this mouse is that the drivers are pretty poor.)I dealt with these individually minor, but cumulatively maddening issues until a week ago, when a friend bought me an ambidextrous mouse to try (a Steelseries Sensei). While it's not as ergonomically nice, the fact that I don't have to constantly wrestle with its settings makes it win out over the Deathadder.So all that to say: if Razer simply wired the mouse buttons to be left-is-left and right-is-right, this mouse would be absolutely perfect for me, even with its mediocre drivers. (I've read about people opening it up and resoldering the wires themselves... while I could probably do that, I'm personally not willing to at this point. Basically, I don't feel like I should have to &#34;fix&#34; a premium-priced mouse just to get it to behave.)I don't remember all of them, but in case you're interested, here's a few of the games I mentioned above that gave me issues:- Battlefield 3 and 4- Terraria- Far Cry 3- Natural Selection 2- Crysis (1 or 2... I forget)
3	1388102400	After 6 month use the left click has low feedback, and sometimes it trigger a double click.Maybe you want to close a window, and ended up closing two.It's quite annoying.Clearing the switch with isopropyl alcohol works for awhile, but after a few weeks the issue is back.
1	1388016000	400 DPI might be to low for this senser IDK , but I can tell you one min its slow the next its fast....all acceleration off markC mouse fix used.....I went back to using my G500 and gave this away as a present
4	1388016000	This mouse is a replacement for my logitech mouse because I needed something with more dpi and didn't really want to get a mouse with 12 side buttons this mouse is comfortable in the hand but I've felt better but in this price range nothing compares. The 4g sensor is really good can be used on practically any surface. I would consider it if you are looking for a mouse for FPS or every day use.
4	1388016000	Unboxed, plugged in, installed Synapse software off Razer site, and rebooted. Left button clicks but not registered. Left rear thumb button appears to be broken/does not click at all. Right mouse button works like a charm. This one is going back and I'll give it one more go with a replacement before I move on to another brand. I do  love the shape of the mouse.*EditReceived my replaccement. This one works as advertised. So far, so good. Really loving the sensor and ergonomic shape!
5	1387929600	I bought this for my son for Christmas and he loves it! He says he can't get over how well it fits in his hand and how smooth it moves.
5	1387929600	The mouse is the best mouse i have ever felt it fits perfectly in your hand. The mouse also has a rubber grips on both sides which are also extremely comfortable. The mouse responds perfectly when playing games like csgo when aiming is necessary and you have to preform actions quickly.
4	1387929600	This is a really good mouse, with a really good sensor.  I was able to completely disable &#34;acceleration&#34; and still get the mouse to move fast enough across the screen, because of the high DPI of the sensor.  This is a great thing, because &#34;acceleration&#34; causes you to lose 1:1 accuracy (typical office spreadsheet work won't notice this, but 1:1 accuracy really makes a difference in precision applications, such as games, and painting programs).  I bought this mouse as a replacement for my trackball, which was known for good accuracy, but kept getting dusty and the sensors kept getting clogged.  Hopefully I'll be happy with it: I reluctantly moved back to a mouse, from a trackball, after finding no other trackball on the market (even Kensington) that would work reliably in my environment.I'm impressed it works out of the box without drivers at all, on Linux and Mac, and through my KVM switch, without issues.  I've had trouble before with nonstandard mice not working, or losing functionality, but this seems to do it all, without needing drivers.  I'm happy with that.As others have said, this mouse does somewhat have a poor build quality.  I've been lucky so far, it hasn't broken yet, but my mouse is very new (just opened it today).  It feels unusually lightweight.  I would have liked more heft, especially in the middle wheel: I like to &#34;throw the wheel&#34; and quickly scroll through a web page from top to bottom, but I can't do it with this mouse, because the momentum simply isn't there.  The pulsating snake logo on it is rather annoying, it would be nice to turn it either off or on, not pulsating.  I like the braided jacket around the USB cable, though!  Braided cables just seem to last longer, and my cat doesn't chew them :)
5	1387929600	I just got this mouse for Christmas and I must say that, so far, it is outstanding.  This is genuinely the perfect gaming mouse.  Now, I say that it is the perfect GAMING mouse, not a perfect mouse: though it is extremely comfortable and ergonomic and has awesome features including customization through Razer Synapse 2.0, there are some drawbacks.  One, the side buttons are very nice, but they are a bit annoying to reach with your thumb when using them.  Two, the buttons (namely the left mouse button and the right mouse button) are, should I say, &#34;hair-triggery&#34; and by that I mean, all it takes is for you to throw a hair on this mouse and you will click on something.  The buttons are very light to the touch which is not very nice, especially if you are playing a shooter or an RPG and accidentally fire your ammo or attack something/someone you don't want to attack.  Now, I did go over the two cons I ran into with this mouse, but let me go over the pros a little more in-depth.The mouse, as I said before, is extremely ergonomic.  It fits comfortably in my hand: it's almost like it melts in your grip.  Next, the mouse is the perfect weight: it isn't too heavy and it isn't too light, it feels like what you payed for rather than it feeling like a cheap, plastic mouse you could easily get at Wal-Mart.  It also is quite customizable: this being it's best feature.  Not only can you increase/decrease the sensitivity of the high-powered laser, but you can also customize the lighting, functions of the buttons, acceleration of the mouse pointer, and you can even calibrate the mouse to your mousepad so that it knows just how much space you have to work with before you have to pick the mouse up and put it back down on the other side of the mat.Overall, this is a great mouse.  I would recommend it if you are into PC gaming or if you just want a really cool and comfortable mouse to use on your computer.  Definitely deserves a 5-star rating.
5	1387929600	This mouse has changed a skeptic of optical mice into a believer again and though I was never a minimalist, I have forever crossed the border into this group due to the sheer elegance, ergonomics and aesthetics of this mouse. Highly recommend it!
5	1387843200	Worth the money, starting to kill more and more ppl with ease on my games. GO DEATHADDER, BEST ADDER.  .
2	1387756800	and it didn't pay off.Let me start by saying I was excited for this mouse. I initially took my time, read many product reviews, and watched a few online video unboxings and reviews. When it arrived it looked like it could be the one; however several things irritated me off the start. When placed in my hand it felt cheap, this could be due to it being a light-weight mouse; it simply felt like there was nothing inside it. The scroll wheel was not what I was use to. I've used the Logitech G9X and G500 scroll wheel, both of which's resistance felt just right and the material of both felt good beneath your finger; the DeathAdder's was a rubberized scroll wheel with a lot of resistance. Despite these annoyances I decided to give it a good play session in Battlefield 4. What I noticed was that with the grips on the side it was still hard to pick up the mouse due to the base material the mouse was made of. And after a while the grips became tarnished with sweat and oil from my hands further hindering the ability to pick it up. As for the mouse feet I was concerned about how long they would last due to being so small; however compared to the friction of my Logitech G9X on my QCK mousepad it felt the exact same. The one thing that did please me was how comfortable it felt in my hand, however there were too many drawbacks to consider using this as my primary gaming mouse.Fortunately I was able to pick up a Logitech G500s for cheap which felt much better over all; if I had to recommend a palm/claw grip gaming mouse for individuals who pick their mouse up frequently I would go with the G500s over the DeathAdder; even at the price of 50 dollars that I payed for the DeathAdder, it simply didn't feel worth it.
3	1387756800	In shopping for my mouse, I wanted five things:  good side buttons, large size for my large hands, good grip, a good sensor, and the ability to make my LEDs different colors.-The DeathAdder can't change LED colors, but I bought it anyway since it was the least important qualification.  Still, it would be really nice to have it glow a color that I actually like, instead of the standard green.  Most modern gaming mice allow you to customize your glow settings, so it is a little bit disappointing that Razer skipped this one.  Even if they offered alternate models that only glow pink, or red, it would have been great to have that choice.-The side buttons are very responsive, and a good size to prevent misclicks.  However, this mouse is advertised as being able to palm/claw grip it.  At least with my large hands (~8&#34;), it is physically impossible to hit one of the side buttons in these grip styles, because it is too close to the palm-side of the mouse.  For anyone with larger hands, YOU MUST USE A FINGERTIP GRIP or you will lose access to one or possibly both of the side buttons.-To go one step further, I'd say you must use a fingertip grip with this mouse no matter what, if your hands are 7&#34; or larger.. because this mouse is smaller than it looks in the pictures.  Very strange, for a mouse that claims to be designed for a palm grip....  Perhaps Razer was catering a bit too much towards their smaller-sized crowd?  I'm a woman, and this mouse is much too small for my liking;  I'm thinking many male gamers will have trouble with the size of this, since a lot of you guys probably have hands as big or bigger than mine.-The sensor is the primary selling point of this mouse, in my mind.  It is 100% flawless..  Probably the best sensor on the market, being optical means zero acceleration for pinpoint accuracy, and it has massive DPI potential that is completely customizable.  There is no room for improvement in this category - it's simply the best.-Now onto the grips...  This mouse has rubber grips on the sides of the mouse;  these are the only contact points fingertip gamers have, so they are very important.  It's clear they were designed for maximum gripping power, but the material they used doesn't work AT ALL.  It *encourages* your fingers to sweat, and then gets very slippery and uncomfortable when you do.  After 30 seconds of use, I can feel a noticeable difference in the texture, and it's very uncomfortable because it feels like I no longer have control of the mouse..  like it could slip out of my fingers entirely at any moment.  If you're a small-handed palm or claw grip gamer, you might not have as much of a problem, but I can't say for sure because it's impossible for me to use those grips with the DeathAdder.  Fingertip grippers.. STAY AWAY!Bottom line:  for a mouse that is a remodeled version of an older one, attempting to fix the flaws of its predecessor, I am quite disappointed in the final product.  The design flaws of the old DeathAdder are still present in its tiny frame and side buttons being too far away from the thumb's natural resting position.  But when they attempted to &#34;improve&#34; the grip with rubber siding, they *really* made a bad call.  This grip area is CRUCIAL for fingertip gamers, and the rubbery texture makes it impossible to keep a stable hold on the mouse through intense gaming sessions when your hands sweat.  Even just casual use browsing the internet makes the whole area wet, slimy, and uncomfortable within just a minute or two.  I will be testing out the use of chalk dust (the stuff used for exercise equipment) asap, because this issue is the biggest drawback for an otherwise accurate and responsive mouse.  Anyone with hands smaller than 6&#34; in length who use palm/claw grip should be okay, but any bigger than that, I definitely DO NOT recommend you buy this, regardless of how much hype it has.
1	1387756800	I haven't even used this mouse with more than the default drivers. For all I know it's the best mouse I've ever used. Doesn't matter, I regret the purchase.To get this mouse configured, you have to go online and download Razer's Big Ugly App. (Drivers are so 2000.) You have to sign in to Razer, get an account, verify your account, log into your account. If you fail to log in three times (maybe you didn't verify your email account in disbelief that you really need to in order to use a mouse), you're frozen out for five minutes. In that time, you may go online and find out that your mouse will now ALWAYS REQUIRE YOU to sign in or it won't work except as the moral equivalent of the hockey puck that came with your Dell that you are trying to replace with an actual gaming mouse. Your mouse configuration won't work unless you ask Razer's permission first.But that's okay, because Cloud! You'll be able to carry your mouse around and use it on dozens of different computers! You know, like you do. And for that flexibility, you'll just have to put up with checking in with Razer Central literally every time you initialize your mouse (and God knows when on top of that). Now your mouse depends on internet connectivity, isn't that nice?From a privacy standpoint, I think it's fairly odious, but let's leave that aside. The most annoying thing about any Internet interaction (except blog comments) is constant authentication and authorization. There is a compelling use case for portable mouse settings for maybe 1% of users. (And most of them could be solved if the mouse stored it's configuration in RAM on the device. I'm sure that's hard, given that dozens of mice already do it.) For the other 99% who use one mouse with one computer, imposing an authentication burden on them just to use their mouse is asinine.It occurs to me that Razer could deny me the use of the advanced features of this mouse any time it wants, whether because it thinks I'm a Bad Person, or it just wants to reclaim some old servers. Or by accident, whether it wants to or not. But that's okay, because as long as they don't, I have ubiquitous access to my mouse settings! How important to me this feature is!Buy another mouse. Replace that Logitech G500 that busted with another Logitech G500 that will bust in two years. At least &#34;Razer decided it didn't like me&#34; won't be another thing that can go wrong with your mouse....and that should be five minutes. Time to find out if my password works!
5	1387670400	The best mouse I've ecer used very comfortable and sturdy. The wire is great wont break easily and programming it is a breeze.
1	1387670400	This is my third Razer gaming mouse, the first it was the Razer Mamba.....in resume, the worse mouse ever....then i bought the Razer Imperator, an excelent periferical, highly recommended, and then the Razer Deathadder 2013, just die after a couple of months of use, and i haven't any response of SUPPORT team of razer, because they don't support you. I understand than when you buy an electronic product it can have a fabris defects, but then they should have to give you some answers....Razer don't. I think that i will not buy any Razer mouse again.
5	1387670400	Coming from a wireless combo mouse so pretty much anything is an improvement. I very much love this mouse, I'm going to give it credit for increasing my KDR on BF4 from .9 to 1.7 (I know I'm not very good). This is due in large part because this mouse doesn't just become unresponsive at random like my old mouse did, thus I'm not getting destroyed by someone I should easily handle.Pros:Adjustable DPISynapse 2.0 allows you to calibrate the mouse to different mousepads/surfaces (Increased accuracy on the mouse after calibrating)Very comfortable in Claw grip (my regular grip)Durable (My roommate has the same and he slams it around all the time when he's raging and it isn't broken yet)Very smooth movementCons:No dpi settings on the mouseSynapse 2.0 is worthless for anything but DPI Adjustment and CalibrationOnly glows in green. Throws off the LED scheme for my whole rig. Damn you RAZER for not making it in blue!I don't know, not enough buttons maybe? But I'm running FPS mostly so I only need RL mouse, 2 thumb and scroll/scroll click.Price. Don't get me wrong, it's worth what it costs. But damn I would have liked to pay less than 50. Because I'm poor.So yeah. For 50 I don't think there is a better mouse. I'm sure if I got a $1000 mouse that is biometric printed and dissolves into your hand for max comfort I'd be happier, but I don't want to be a cyborg yet and I had $50 to spend on a mouse.I love this mouse.
5	1387670400	Fits good in the hand, and is easily customized through the Razor software I highly recommend this mouse to anyone.
3	1387584000	I play fps to rts games, thus have been using razer mice (diamondback etc) all the time.one star deducted because it doesnt suit me perfectly (bias feedback): I use the fingertip grip and find this mouse a tad too big tall and heavy. Im still trying to get use to it. This mouse is more suitable for peeps who use palm grip due to its shape (its not symmetrical) and everything.one star deducted: Synapse 2.0 always requires internet connection is also causing some lag during computer startup and when i try to open the program to adjust mouse settings. i prefer a offline system (which fortunately was introduced recently).
5	1387497600	Looking for a gaming mouse without 10,000 buttons? This is the one. I've tried all kinds of mice in ranging prices... the 2013 DeathAdder has the best feel, action, and comfort. A while back I bought one and was disappointed, due to the shiny plastic getting caught during intense/sweaty gaming moments. No longer. This has all been replaced with rubber grip pads in the appropriate areas. If you haven't tried this mouse yet, you are missing out.
5	1387497600	If you want a gaming mouse that doubles as a great toy for your 14 month old child then look no further! Trust me, duribility is top notch! Its gone threw hell and keeps on ticking! Lets makes a list of uses:Stylish and comfortable gaming mouse: CheckDrag along toy for child: CheckChew toy: CheckFoot and nose picker: CheckBest $50 I ever spent, in fact im thinking of getting 1-2 more as toys for friends! Theres no reason to buy cheap plastic toys from toysrus!
5	1387497600	amazing mouse, I saw a review on tested.com site where they did a great comparison of all the best videogaming mouses, they gave the DeathAdder the top price because of a number of factors.The  software is ok, is what i was expecting, not a ton of updates but once you update you need to reboot (i dont get why).So if you are a all around gamer, fps, strategy, mmorpg, this is a great mouse. For only fps or only mmoprg maybe you can get a more tailored solution.
1	1387411200	So happy to received the mouse as I order quite a long time from overseas in south asia Singapore. Its a nightmare now...Found out that shipping it back I have to print a label( which I dun have a printer). Worst is I have to pay a shipping cost from Singapore to States which is almost the same cost as buying the mouse! So I am struck here not wanting to return a defective product.Even my old deathadder works perfectly! Think Razer now produces poor quality products. Dun buy razer!This is new version of deathadder the usb port when connecting to my pc usb is dangling because its lose. Really sad to see this mouse failing me. Jumpy mouse pointers too.
3	1387411200	I bought this gaming mouse since I play COD (black ops 2 and Ghost) and Battlefield (3) series pretty hardcore, and I thought to my self I need to go more pro status and buy a gaming mouse. Before I bought this Razer Deathadder I was using a 10 year old logitech mouse, and I have to say the difference between the two is pretty much zero when it comes down to game play advantage. For some reason I thought buying a $50-80 gaming mouse compared to a $3 mouse would be better precision, or more accurate. The sensitivity can easily be adjusted in the windows options of your computer, but any gamer knows that FPS games already have a mouse sensitivity option built in.So, what are you paying for then? Well, it really comes down to the comfort factor. And I have to say the comfort of this mouse is the only thing that holds it up, but in hindsight spending $50 on a comfortable mouse was not worth it. Also, it does have a pulsing green light on the mouse which is nice. There is a grip rubber like side to the mouse which makes it feel a lot more durable/easier to grip.
5	1387411200	Fast response or high accuracy it has what ever you need for your game.  Its big and perfect for my hand.  This is the second Razer product I buy and I'm very satisfied with them.  It is recommended.  Next item will be a gaming mouse pad and Ill be set.
5	1387324800	I bought this for my 13 year old daughter and she absolutely loves it. There aren't many choices for lefties.  She was able to customize it and is very happy with it.
5	1387324800	I wouldn't count myself as a hardcore PC gamer but the allure of the Razer Deathadder was something else. After being frustrated by several mouse from different brands which died shortly after purchases, I wanted something that was of quality. A friend suggested I try the Deathadder because his lasted 6 years (THAT IS AMAZEBALLS!)  And quality was what I got from the moment I unboxed the Deathadder. Razer nailed it with everything right down to the packaging. The Deathadder itself is a beauty to handle - lightweight and the ergonomics fit my hand really well. Looking forward to 6 years (crossing my fingers!) with this baby!
5	1387324800	I got this for my boyfriend as well as the BlackWidow Ultimate keyboard, and they both are awesome. The mouse arrived in it's original packaging (which I reviewed on the other item, but the packaging is really nice.) which was unharmed. The mouse itself is really cool. The only downside (totally my opinion and it really wouldn't stop anyone from purchasing it) is that the flashing logo pulsates. Which is cool, but it's the only option. So it's either pulsating all the time, or there's no light. That's my only beef, but it's hardly one at all. We were worried it'd be hard to adjust to (gaming mice are shaped a little differently than a standard mouse), but he said it felt better than expected and has not seemed to have any trouble with it. As for everyone complaining about the online software issues, we haven't had any really. We had an issue making an account for a little bit, but once we did, it was done and everything worked fine- no disconnects.
5	1387324800	Been working really good for me use it everyday had no problems with it so far. Just wish the green light on the logo would stay green but then again i like that it pulsates in and out like a heart beat.
5	1387238400	I was searching for a mouse that worked well with 4 port IOGear DVI kvm switch, I've had a couple of others that don't work consistently.  So it fills the job nicely after a month of use
4	1387238400	I just received my DeathAdder as a gift, and this feels wonderful. The texture on the mouse is smooth with just enough grain to make it want to stay with your hand, but soft like satin.The accuracy seems quite sensitive but not jerky. It's a good combination of high resolution for small movements without sudden jerkiness you can get from overly sensitive mice. I'm looking forward to some gaming tonight on BF4My only detracting feature is that with large hands, and some light carpal tunnel; I feel my hand squeezing between my ring finger and thumb to keep it in hand.  If the mouse was a little wider I feel I would not be squeezing as much to keep it accurate. (The only mouse that ever felt like it matched my hand perfectly was my old SideWinder by MS, so I tend to prefer chunky mice)
5	1387238400	I got my DeathAdder 2013 off of a recommendation from a friend who had the previous model.  The 2013 is really nice.  They added textured grips on the sides of the mouse allow for more precise control than before.  As always, the lighting effects are also really cool with this Razer product.  For the price, this has to be one of the best deals for PC gamers.  I have fairly large hands, and the mouse is very comfortable.  I've had my brother try it, who has medium/small hands, and he found it comfortable as well.  One of the best things with the DA13 is that it is also Mac compatible (yes I know you PC gamers will hate on me for running my games on a high end Mac, but that's ok).  Great for both PC and Mac.  I highly recommend this product, and it also goes best with one of Razer's Mouse Mats.  Easier to calibrate the sensors, and they are also quality products.
5	1387238400	I'm usually a fan of Razer mice and the DeathAdder is a great mouse. It has on the fly sensitivity and a great grip. It also has two side buttons if you need them. It may not have a lot of buttons like the Razer Naga but it still gets the job done for FPS and RTS games.
5	1387238400	This is a fantastic mouse. I purchased a gaming PC a few months back and this was the mouse I chose to use. It's super comfortable, I feel like I can hold it for hours as I slaughter dragons in Skyrim, or run around in Guild Wars 2. I love the two buttons on the side, as well. I say nearly perfect because I really wanted four buttons on the side, but it seems like Razer doesn't offer a mouse with that. (I checked on their website)The price is fantastic considering it is cheaper than going directly through their website. It arrived quickly and with no problems.I do think the chord is too long for me, personally, but I love the fabric wrapped wire. Usually using rubber or plastic (whatever it is other companies like logitech use) will fray the wire at either end due to it being stiff.  But this is very loose and easily maneuverable.I gave it a 5 star because, like I said, the only issue is that I would have preferred one with four side buttons rather than two, but that's an issue on my part. there is nothing wrong with the product and I'm very happy that I bought it.
5	1387238400	I'm a big CS:GO player and this difference has made a huge difference in my performance/accuracy.It's also really comfortable and the strain on my wrist is a lot less than my old mouse.
5	1387152000	I would suggest this mouse to a non-gamer with larger hands. Very ergonomic and precise. Green glowing color is a plus too.
5	1387152000	Was worried that I wouldn't like this mouse since I have never used a &#34;gaming&#34; mouse before and it is hard to know what will fit your hand until you get it.  That being said I have found this to fit my hand great and although I haven't been gaming much lately I enjoy this mouse just for general use as well.
1	1387152000	I was quite excited to get this mouse, opened the package and started setting it up. The software was very impressive, Mac support was great, hand feel was great. All that doesn't matter because it broke after 2 days of use, don't waste your time with Razer. Ever.
5	1387065600	This is an amazing mouse with a very good support team behind it. I contacted them with with a problem and they answered really fast and fixed it immediately. I recommend this mouse for anybody that games a lot. The two buttons on the side are very useful, especially when I am doing work and can use them as copy and paste. The razer Synapse 2.0 software is also VERY good and very well designed. This is the first Razer i ever bought, and I will probable be buying more soon.
1	1387065600	Mouse died after 3 months of usage. worked well for 3 months then it randomly started glitching out and stopped working. Bought a logitech g100s, that mouse works great
5	1387065600	This is my go to mouse... Very comfortable, smooth, and it's jus perfect for me. Had the DeathAdder 3.5version and picked this up to go with my new pc build. I like the side grips that they added to this 2013 version. Would recommend this to anyone especially if it goes on sale.
5	1387065600	After using generic store-brand mouses for nearly my entire PC Gaming life I never really expected to find a difference in buying a gaming mouse; I was wrong. After using the DeathAdder 2013 for just a couple of months I never want to go back. The comfort, the quality, the feel, and the overall functionality that this mouse offers are out of this world. 5/5 Best. Mouse. Ever.
1	1387065600	The mac software for this guy is so bad.  You have to create an account just to get your extra buttons working.  Uh, no thank you.I don't think these guys use Macs because the software is very very Windows.  It looks like an 18 year old intern designed it while listening to dubstep.  It requires restarts.  It restarts itself when you force it to quit.  It doesn't have a "exit" option in the tray menu item.  Then, when you get sick of it, you have to go digging around in the file system to find their uninstall -- which then requires a restart.Every other mouse I've used on Mac does it right -- they add an item in System Preferences.  That's what Razer should do as well.Really, really, poor Mac implementation.Edit: Ok, I found a great workaround.  To get the full features of the mouse on Mac, skip the the Razer software entirely and use a shareware program called "USB Overdrive."  I'm now more happy with my mouse, but I'm not happy that I had to install a bunch of programs to get the basic functionality to work.
5	1386979200	The razer death adder is great for gaming. Is is great looks awesome and feels great. Best FPS mouse and good at RTS games. U have to get the steel series Qck gaming mouse pad for it or else ur only getting half of the awesomeness
5	1386979200	For the price, it is a great starter gaming mouse that I have had no problems with! I would recommend it for anybody looking for a mouse. :D
3	1386892800	I've had this mouse for about 3 months, and a few weeks ago I started noticing the right mouse button occasionally double-clicking. I owned an original DeathAdder that I bought around 2008 which still works fine minus a few 'alterations' made by pets (namely the scroll wheel's rubber bit is gone and the plastic casing on the USB connector).So, having used that mouse for so very long with absolutely no such issues, I felt confident in purchasing the 2013 model. Apparently I made a mistake in doing that, passing over a few other mice that cited issues developing after a year or two in favor of what I assumed would be a similarly long-lived product. Fairly disappointed. I'm not sure how frequent this issue is, but if you end up with a mouse that does it, it's somewhat irritating.
4	1386892800	The DeathAdder is a great mouse. The larger size, though larger than some, and ergonomic shape makes it really comfortable for your palm, especially when working on your computer for long hours. (It is a bit tough for my son (3 yrs old) to use because it's so big.) It's definitely not friendly when carrying around, but for a home mouse for a stationary set up, it's great. The long cable is nice and the fact that it's braided makes it much more durable and less likely to get tangled.Although I don't use it for gaming, I'm a web developer/designer&#8212;The mouse is extremely accurate and smooth, especially at the highest dpi setting. I prefer a wired mouse over a wireless&#8212;guarantees for a smoother experience, at least from what I've experienced personally.Mac users, be warned: Software for the Mac is terrible, but in order to change specific settings (e.g. dpi, lights), it's necessary. What I did was install the software, change the settings like I wanted it, and then uninstalled it.Also to note, the scroll wheel doesn't have 4-way scroll (being able to push the wheel left and right), which I do miss sometimes, but it's not that big of a deal. Instead (on a Mac at least) you have to hold Shift + scroll to scroll horizontally.Coupled with a Razer Goliath mousepad, it's one of the best mice I've ever owned.Pros:Braided cableLong USB cableAccurate, smoothCons:A bit on the expensive sideTerrible Mac softwareNo 4-way scroll wheelNeutral:Large size
5	1386892800	It's like the Mamba, but it doesn't have the wireless option. also, it's a lot lighter than the mamba. I love the macro capabilities of it.
5	1386806400	The mouse feels good in my hand, which in my case is a larger than average.  The grips on the side are comfortable, its easy to move around, and I have never had any sensing issues.  The worst part is the associate synapse software which has proven to be nothing but an annoyance to me.  It apparently has many capabilities to save configurations but even as a pretty regular gamer I don't find this to be useful and instead it just annoys me when the software gets updated periodically and I have to reboot my computer even though I don't take advantage of the updates.  I guess you can just use it without the software though if you really wanted to.
5	1386806400	I picked up this mouse on a lightning deal and have been using it for a few days and I must say this is the best mouse I have ever owned.
3	1386806400	IM going to be quick and to the point about this mouse, I am an extremely heavy gamer/live streamer/ect. so the mouse gets tons of use and needs to be able to take the abuse.if you're like me, dont get this mouse it only held up for 2 months, but dont let that stray you away, this is a good mouse.Pros:-VERY comfortable, my hand never cramped once after multiple 24 hour gaming sessions. Seriously, its hard to beat the comfort of this mouse.-Looks great-Setup was simple and macro's were easy to bind-did i say comfort?Cons:-Price, definitely not worth this much, there are better all around mouses for cheaper *cough*Steelseries*cough*-The damn thing broke after 2 months, the mouse wheel fell inside the housing. couldnt return it, so i said screw it and took it apart, turns out there is a small THIN pin that runs through the mouse wheel to count the rotations. it should be a LOT thicker.-Software, while easy to set up, decides to update mid game so the mouse completely stops working, typically when you are fighting a boss or doing something that requires lots of mouse movement (feature? lol)
5	1386806400	just love this mouse.  took some getting use to., a lot  different from a reg mouse. I call it my magic clicker.  great item
5	1386720000	This is one of the best mice available. I used it to replace my old Diamond Back that lasted for many years. The logo pulses and there is no way to turn it on or off.
5	1386720000	My son is a gamer - aged 13. He is very happy with this mouse. He selected it himself. It works well. No real dragging or probs. with it not holding up.
2	1386720000	A highly promising mouse brought low by defective buttons that double-click all the time when I single click, several months after purchase.See the following link to see what I mean: [...]
4	1386720000	I have been using Death Adder mouse since they created them way back. This is 2013 updated edition. I love this mouse my only complaint is that the scroll wheel is still flimsy and makes noise when scrolling other wise a great inexpensive Gaming Mouse
5	1386720000	The Razer Deathadder is a very good mouse for all types of gaming. The mouse has a very good design and with the extra 2 buttons on the side you can set up macros and a bunch of other amazing stuff.
5	1386633600	I've been using Razer DeathAdders since the first generation was released and it's by far it's my favorite mouse of all time... and I've used quite a bit of mice. The sensor on the new 2013 model has been upgraded to give you more DPI (6400 DPI Avago optical sensor. It's a Razer DeathAdder 2013 exclusive!!!), the sides now have rubber grips for better grippiness, the material is now a really nice matte black finish, and there's now green LEDs on this thing, but other than that, it's still your old tried and true DeathAdder.It's the most comfortable palm grip mouse I've laid hands on, the sensor is technically flawless (no inherent acceleration, no inherent prediction, no inherent jitter, no jumpy lift-off distance issues, nothing), it doesn't have a ton of useless buttons, and it's not priced that high either. I do wish Razer would put some quick sensitivity adjustment buttons on the DeathAdder since it kinda sucks when you play Battlefield, get into a tank and your sensitivity is way off, but other than that this is the best mouse out there.Trust me. Buy it. You won't regret it.
4	1386633600	I have used this mouse for quite some time now, I do admit, the mouse feels solid, but it was worth the $40 i spent on black friday. The mouse had the left and right buttons giving different resistance, so I did just contact Razer's support. The mouse overall feels a bit off, and they really should've concentrated on tweaking the 2013 so that it has big changes, after all, if the 2012 was soo good, why not just keep on manufacturing it? My main problem is the tallest bump on the deathadder doesn't match with the center of my palm (the lowest point on my palm), so it doesn't feel like I have a good grip on it, since it's awkward. Again, the mouse button resistance is still to be solved, since I just contacted their customer support team.
2	1386547200	The mouse I received was not the 2013 Edition, which I had purchased with the intention of a promotional code for an aesthetic code gained via Razer Synapse for a game called Firefall by Red 5 Studios. The code is gained exclusively via the 2013 Deathadder model.Model number: RZ01-0015Product number: RZ01-00151400
5	1386547200	Great mouse, feels great, very quick! The materials feel nice and everything is good quality! This is possibly one of Razer's finest products.
5	1386547200	I love this mouse so much! I have had it for only 3 days so far but I can say it significantly helped my FPS game play as soon as I plugged it in.  I'll give and update later about the mouses durability, but so far this mouse has been great!
4	1386460800	Perfect gaming mouse. Feels great in hand (crawl grip) and the 6400 dpi optical sensor is amazing. Absolutely recommend this mouse.
5	1386460800	Love it! Feels great and I love the thumb grip on the side below the two buttons! The LED effects are pretty cool too and functionality A++! Great buy for my build.
5	1386460800	review is for razer deathadder 2013 edition, since i noticed most reviews don't specify which version they are reviewingi was basically looking for a 1. wired mouse for best response time 2. optical mouse for best tracking ( at least i believe so) 3. simple, left click, right click, mouse wheel and at most 2-4 buttons, i wanted a simple mousei came down to three mouses that fit these criteria a. razer deathadder 2013 edition b. steelseries sensei raw edition c. microsoft intellimouse 3.0just got this through the mail for $41 bucks + roughtly $3 tax, i guess they lowered the price from 59.99 to 41 to make room for the 2014 editioni checked retail stores around my neighborhood and they sell it for 79.99, so 41 + $3 tax = $44, what a bargaini was deciding between this vs Microsoft intellimouse 3.0 vs steelseries sensei raw edition since i just needed something simple instead of with 20 buttons and bulky, why i chose this overall? cheaper than Microsofts and steelseries and many many good reviews, even though i was scared by the one star reviews of quality issues then again which product dont have issues? 900+ positive reviews vs 100+ one star reviews, i think its worth the risk, i decided to give it a shot since this mouse seems like a very good mouse for gaming and that was exactly what i was shopping forthe packaging: the box, the packaging is good, gives it a nice premium feel, gives you clear instructions on what comes with this mouse and to register and to post a good review to have a chance to win razers other goodsthe mouse itself: i was using Logitech wireless mx performance mouse that retails for $99.99, i really liked this mouse since its very comfortable on your hands but it had a double click problem that im going to end up rma'ing it, the Logitech feels very solid and heavy, gives it a premium feel, the deathadder on the other hand is very very light, lighter than you hand kind of  light, it feels cheap-kind-of-light, it had left click, right click, two buttons on left side, mouse wheel and you can click the mouse wheel down, ergonomics wise its palm style, if you like claw or whatever, this is not the mouse for you, but if you like palm, this mouse is for you, so if you don't mind the lightness, this is the mouse for youit also looks very good, simple, clean, "audi" like if you know what i mean, its a nice looking mousethe cord feels very solid as well and stretches 7 feet longsynapse 2.0 software: upon plugging the mouse to the computer and booting up, it recognized my mouse and installed the drivers immediately, the mouse is usable within seconds of getting to the window screen, i proceed to create an account and installed the software to my computer, people who complained about the software being "spyware", whatever, i don't know, but so far the software gives me good impressions, its not laggy, buggy, at all, i installed it and instantly i was creating my own profile, choosing lighting for mouse wheel and the the logo light that appears on the mouse, so far i set the two buttons to be able to toggle DPI up and down for my RTS and FPS games, real handy, overall impression? smooth and doesn't get in my way, and this is connected to your profile and uploaded to their cloud server, lets say you wanna travel to friends house and bring your mouse as well, that's fine, install synapse 2.0 on their computer and login, voila, all your settings (which takes less than 5 mins to do) appears and is applied to your mouse, convenient? hell yeai also bought this with "goliathus 2014 medium control soft gaming mouse mat", why control? because i like control, speed can always be adjusted, the mouse and the mouse pad can be calibrated, don't know how much it helped, but its a nice feature and if it does help, good for mefor $41 bucks as of 12/6/2013 (when i bought it) it is hell of a good deal vs a steelseries sensei ($50) and Microsofts intellimouse explorer 3.0 ($65), just be sure you register the product so you get a 2 year manufacturers warrantywhy not? for a mouse that is only 40% of the mambas price, cheaper than steelseries, cheaper than microsofts intellimouse 3.0, comes with 2 year manufacturers warranty, there is nothing to worry about if it breaks, i recommend this plus a goliathus mousepadhappy with my purchase ? hell yea, if it breaks down? doesn't mean i should give it 1 star, maybe if it passes the two year warranty :p, so far, 5 star all the way, very happy customer
5	1386460800	I purchased a Razer DeathAdder 2013 edition mouse from Amazon this past black Friday. The mouse I was using before was a Razer Diamondback from 4-5 years ago.The DeathAdder is an impressive improvement and shows testament of Razer's advancement through the years.The first thing I noticed was the comfort just holding the mouse. I have a smaller hand but the design still fit for me very comfortably. The texture of the mouse feels more durable than the diamondback (the diamondback began to peel after 2 years).I think the green color scheme was very well thought out. Just the right amount of light. I also noticed the Razer logo will fade out if the mouse ins't moving, a cool feature.The side buttons are easily reached and much more convenient than the side buttons on the diamondback.The sensor on this mouse is leagues above that of the diamondback. The DeathAdder is very precise without being too fast.Overall I am extremely happy with the 2013 DeathAdder mouse. Now I just need to experience a Razer keyboard.Thank you Razer!
5	1386374400	i had to replace it 3 times to get one that works perfectly. 1st one i bought the mouse buttons were really uneven. right mouse button sounded deeper and needed more force to press so i had to replace it. now the replacement deathadder had such loose buttons. side buttons wiggled alot and left/right buttons felt so springy it felt like a cheapo kind of mouse and annoyed the hell out of me.i was on the verge of going for a different brand but i gave razer 1 last chance and i didnt regret doing so. after replacing it twice, the 3rd deathadder i got was perfect. it is very comfortable, the rubber grips are awesome and the material used for the mouse is really nice since my hands tend to sweat abit. the mouse is really precise and and im loving it.it was tough to get one that worked perfectly but it was well worth it.i recommend fellow gamers to try this out.
5	1386374400	I got this mouse a few months ago and felt compelled to come here and let everyone know what a superior mouse this is. From the design, to the performance, to the durability the 2013 deathadder has it all mastered. I honestly have no complaints whatsoever. The mouse is simple and reliable and performs just as well as any other mouse on the market. I'm a gamer and i guarentee you you'll never be able to tell the difference between this mouse and one 3x the price in terms of precision. The deathadder feels very solid and natural in the hand. I absolutely recommend this mouse to gamers and any other computer user for that matter. This thing is a masterpiece and i would easily pay $100 dollars for another and i'm shocked at how little this mouse costs.
5	1386374400	The new Razer DeathAdder 2013 model is a great mouse, I have no had it for about 4 months after my Razer Imperator 2012 model broke, and I haven't looked back.++Size++This is a big mouse, unless you have really big hands you'll hold this with your entire hand, and not a claw grip. It is just a tad bigger than the Imperator 2012, and it feels so much better in my hand.++Buttons & Scrolling Wheel++This mouse has 2 buttons on the side, they are big and easy to click, while still seeming to be well lastingThe normal mouse buttons are also good, they click easily but still require a bit of "effort" to phrase it that way, the buttons don't just go down and click because you rest your fingers on them. They are in the medium range noise wise but are overall good.The scrolling wheel scrolls in steps so you can get a feel of how far you scrolled and can easily do short single step scrolls. It makes a bit over average noise. But with a decent gaming headset on, it'll barely be noticeable.++Movement++I used this mouse on a3M Precise Optical Mousing Surface (MP200PS)and have been extremely happy with movement. This mouse moves extremely well around on a hard surface, I am not sure how it moves on a soft surface mousepad though.++Sensor++This sensor uses Razer's 4G Infrared Sensor and can reach up to 6400 DPI, it moves extremely precise and doesn't move at all if mouse isn't touching surface unless extremely close to surface (Under .5 inches).The advantage using this opposed to a mouse with a laser sensor is that the lasor sensor often catches movement far even when your mouse is far above the surface.++Overall++Overall I'll give this mouse a 5/5 stars, I bought it, opened it. It works for everything from doing office work to playing video games. This is the first mouse I've had for a couple of years where my hand doesn't start to hurt after hours of use. If you're looking for a good mouse that is reasonable priced, this is the best recommendation I can give you.
1	1386288000	So after 5 years of using death adder, the one with blue lights with no issues except a broken side button i decided to get the 2013 edition.Right out of the box the front side button once pressed slightly hard does not pop out, and it makes a weird noise like a plastic sticking to something.Side buttons just sound awful.The build is total crap made out of some cheap plastic compared to the old one.The new cord is crap. The old one was sturdy and u could shape it to loose the cord drag. this one is so flimsy it catches on everything.The point of contact on the bottom is made out of some cheap plastic thus giving the feeling like u dragging the mouse on a block of ice which i do not like.Scroll IS LOUD feels like its going to fall out when lightly moved left to right TOTAL GARBAGE.And Synapse. trololol haha what a fail!Razer does not make gaming equipment in my eyes no more! All they got is marketing with bunch of n00bs at game conventions rocking the retarded green headsets. They sell this garbage for 70 bucks!!! I will never buy Razer again!
5	1386288000	Arrived early!Plug and play. While I could download the Razer software, I decided that it wasn't needed; the default Windows 7 drivers allow for great functionality.I use to use a Razer Copperhead. The palming style for that mouse is very much the same for this mouse so there wasn't a learning curve. This mouse is not ambidextrous and has a left curve, intended for the right hand. This makes the two side buttons line up with my thumb very naturally and now I use them far more often than the same buttons that were on my previous mouse. The default for these are forward and go back,very convenient for web surfing and such.Overall the mouse has been a perfect replacement for my Copperhead.
2	1386288000	Being a huge Razer fan, I purchased the first Razer DeatherAdder back in 2006. This mouse lasted me 7 years until it finally quit working in early 2013.Thinking about how much I loved this original DeathAdder, I purchased the new 2013 model.I have now had this 2013 edition mouse for less than 6 months, and it's already quitting on me. The mouse has internal firmware issues and will stop tracking after it has been lifted from a mousing surface.I'm very disappointed in the quality of this mouse, I hope Razer can fix these quality issues. I love this mouse so much I may purchase another 2013 death adder. Just a shame it didn't last longer.
5	1386201600	The best thing about this mouse is how it feels.  Everytime you use it the brushed matte surface feels like nothing you've ever used before.  Simple tasks from surfing the web to gaming are enhanced just by how comfortable your hands are feeling.  Seriously.I was lucky enough to get the product on black friday at discount ($42) but can say it is definitely worth $60.  The total package of precision tracking, perfect materials, and the Synapse software make you feel like you've bought a luxury item.  All of the details that were put into the product- cord that does not tangle, rubber side grips, mouse pad calibration- add up to the most satisfying computer mouse I've ever used.
4	1386201600	It's a great mouse.  Confident and clear clicks.  Bummed that it only glows green, would like to be able to switch the color up to match my PC.  I also wouldn't mind an extra button or two.  This is my first gaming mouse purchase, I'm not the most experienced user.  It is quite comfy though.
5	1386201600	I have large hands and this mouse fits like a glove. VERY comfortable, excellent response, not overloaded with too much gadgetry. Highly recommend to any gamer. If you're into flight sims or just love binding 300 things to your mouse go get your Naga. Otherwise this thing is perfect!
4	1386201600	The mouse is perfect. Tracking is great, even at high DPI. Feels great to hold.The first mouse I was sent was DOA. The second worked for 6 months, then began having problems clicking. I was sent a new one very quickly.
1	1386201600	the scrolling wheel is loose and unstable. you can even heard a lot of noise when you scroll it. razer makes me sick
5	1386201600	I love this mouse! Its the best gaming mouse I have ever had.  (only one I have ever had...)  This mouse has so many setting to make it the perfect mouse you need it to be. I only have one problem though. My hands are big so I have a hard time hitting the buttons on the left side.  It's not that big of a deal it my problem so don't worry about it unless  you have big hands. In which case if you do I can still hit the buttons it just feels awkward to hit them some times.That all I have to say. Worth every penny and I will never go back.  For gamers, by gamers!
5	1386115200	First razor product definitely won't be my last! Great product good fro all uses. perfect for a beginner in the PC gaming world (like myself) I wouldn't be surprise if i by a razor PC soon after seeing the quality of one of their cheaper products.
2	1386115200	This mouse looks like a used one and does not new. It is not good but I can accept it of the low price.
2	1386115200	The mouse works fine, and is a good mouse, on a personal note the "hump" of the mouse feels a bit forward, resting just under the knuckle of the forefinger but this is just something to get used to if you have previously used mouses with the "hump" farther back pressing into your palm. However, the Synapse system used to configure it was not working and contacting support only got me a copy pasted response with questions showing they did not read my issue at all. additionally the response was severely outdated to the point that the links to their own website don't even work anymore. I would only recommend this if you don't care about trying to change anything from factory settings, outside of that, wait until synapse is fixed/replaced or look into something not made by Razer.
5	1386115200	Love this Mouse! Very comfortable and feels sturdy. Love the look of the mouse. Very simple design. The green lights look really nice too.
5	1386115200	Amazing performance , well worth the investment to upgrade to this mouse. I recommend anyone using some stock mouse who is really interested in gaming to pick up this mouse. the side buttons are great for Press to Talk
5	1386028800	I used to own a Logitech wireless mouse that has served me well for several years. However, the cursor would randomly fly off to the right of the screen, which was extremely annoying and did not work well in any game at all, so it was time for an upgrade.First off, this mouse is like resting your hand on a pillow. It is wonderfully comfortable, especially for one with such brutish man-hands like myself (I could see others with small, weaker hands having trouble adjusting to this). The plastic on the top is made from some textured material that doesn't get slippery under sweaty hands during long gaming sessions, and the buttons all feel springy and responsive. The material under the back/forward buttons are coated in a bumpy rubberized surface that is fairly slick, at least for me, but its nice to have that muscle response as to where the side buttons begin and end, especially as they are made form the same material as the top of the mouse. The scroll wheel also feels extremely satisfying to use. Also, the thing glows, with a soft, warm, pulsating glow. It looks like a little heartbeat.I had no issues with Razer Synapse (the mandatory software if you want to customize the functions). A lot of people are downgrading this because of the software, but in my opinion, its totally fine.
5	1386028800	Easily the best mouse I've owned in my life by far, and the free razor synapsis control and macros dosen't undermined the product at all. :P
5	1386028800	Absolutely feels great in hand, and a very powerful gaming mouse. Would recommend to any gamer looking for a good gaming mouse.
4	1386028800	I love the DeathAdder! I have been using those $5 wireless mice to play games with, and I have been wanting a gaming mouse for the longest time. I just couldn't dish out so much money for it. But after using it, it is definitely worth the money.I would have liked the mouse to feel smoother, but it may be a grip issue if it was smoother. The buttons on the sides are nice. I am a girl, but I do not feel like the mouse is too oversized. My hand doesn't get tired after gaming. I love the braided &#34;no tangle&#34; cable. The color is a plus!
2	1386028800	Um - I was very psyched for this mouse after reading reviews here. I am running Mac OSX 10.8.5 on my late 2012 model mac mini i5, using a travel mouse. Imagine my disappointment when after plugging in this cool mouse, it contantly pauses sensing its position - in essence freezing - every 10 seconds for probably up to 20-30 seconds. I do have the wireless apple keyboard, but that shouldn't be a hardware conflict considering its a MAC and this mouse is wired, not Bluetooth. Even after installing the correct, blackadder synapse drivers, and restarting, the mouse still stutters like this making it unuseable. NOT recommended therefore for MAC. If this company is worth anything, they'll have someone read this and post a helpful response....
5	1385942400	Love this mouse. Use it for playing competitive TF2 and counter strike and works amazingly. With the puretrak talent mousepad this thing is incredibly accurate for tracking. I use it at 1800dpi for around 3.5inches per 360 in game if that makes a difference. I use the asus 144hz monitor and with lightboost plus this mouse, there is no guessing where your crosshair is, you have complete control over everything. I got this when it was on sale for like $50 or $60, Im not sure if at $75 or whatever it is right now it would be worth it. The zowie mice and logitech g400 are also very nice mice.
3	1385942400	I love the mouse it is a great. For some reason though when I play games the mouse stops moving and then jumps to where I moved it. This also happens on my computer doing other thing but rarely. There is really no way to explain it because my computer panhandle the game so the games not glitching plus it does it when I am on my desktop too. Otherwise I love the mouse.
4	1385942400	Pros: The mouse feels good, I have large hands and the robust body allows my entire palm to rest comfortably. Clicking feels nice and the simple design is pleasing.Cons: When I received the mouse directly out of the package, the top, side button would not click, it felt like something was blocking it's path. I tried to ignore it, but I paid too much for this mouse for it to not function directly out of the box. I had to pop open the body of the mouse and file down some excess plastic that was keeping the button from clicking, and it seemed to fix the problem. Way too much work just to get a proper functioning mouse, I have heard that Razer's mice are not constructed very well and unfortunately, this seems to be true.
5	1385942400	Razer is like the &#34;Nike&#34; of computer mice.  Hands down my favorite mouse.  I play FPS so I don't really need all of those buttons.  Way better than my cyborg rat mouse.
5	1385856000	Best gaming mouse i had in a while . easy to use and you feel the comfort in your hand.
4	1385856000	The Razer Deathadder 2013 is the BEST mouse--aesthetic, comfort, size, and build--that I've ever laid hands on.PRO--modern, minimalist aesthetic.  easy-to-use and programming vs. other excess-driven gaming mice with a button for everything.  The DeathAdder eschews all of that, instead giving you a product more fluid, less daunting, and easier on the mouse.--the matte finish and the rubber grips on the 2013 edition make a huge difference in comfort!  no slipping, easy to clean surface.  aesthetically, matte is always more elegant than glossy.--excellent for those with larger hands; perfect for &#34;palming,&#34; which is the really the only ergonomic and comfortable way to hold a hold a mouse.  Due to my large hands, I've always had fit problems with other mice.  The DeathAdder contours to my hand perfectly.--the accuracy of 6400dpi plus optical sensor is clearly noticeable.  more precise gaming.CONS--I say this with all honesty: NO CONS.I had my sights on the Deathadder for a while, and I'm so glad that I finally purchased it because it is as incredible as people say it is.  I give four stars instead of five since I haven't owned the mouse long enough for me to give a full score.  Nonetheless,  I have no doubt that it deserves it.
5	1385856000	Works well but constantly needs to be updated.  I just hate when it my computer needs to be rebooted.  The customization is great and the thumb buttons are easy to adapt to.
5	1385856000	i have had this for nearly a year, flawless for gaming and browsing. Fair price. Like the m3 and m4 buttons. No hand cramping and im 6 ft 5. Love it
3	1385856000	Not as great as others have raved about this mouse.  Felt too light and I just couldn't get comfortable with it.  Not enough buttons so I had to get creative with key bindings.  Went back to my G500.
3	1385769600	I would not recommend getting this mouse but it was great while it lasted. I didn't even have it for a year yet and it has already died on me. This would be my third time having to exchange or RMA it. The firs time I exchanged it in the store since the middle mouse button just didn't work as it was suppose to. Then 2nd time the mouse just creaked really loudly and the tracking on it skipped all over the place. Lastly when I thought I had a good one the mouse worked for a good several months then it finally died. It just doesn't come on anymore and will now have to RMA it. I never had this kind of problem with any other brand and they certainly lasted longer than a year.It honestly is a comfortable and great tracking mouse, but the build quality just seems terrible. Not sure if you can even verbally talk to Razer support since I can only find the email support at the moment. I thought I had a great mouse but was severely disappointed.
5	1385769600	Best mouse! Fits perfectly on my hand. Love the glowing green Razer logo and the mouse style is very simple.
1	1385769600	This mouse was very good, I bought it for my son for a present. He was extremely happy because he was begging for a Razer mouse. It worked extremely well for gaming and browsing for approximately  1 and a half days. My son was devastated over the loss of his new 60 dollar mouse. He showed me that when he plugged it in, none of the lights were going on and it was not working, He tried every usb port on his laptop and then tried it on two other computers. It didn't work so I looked on amazon and on Google and it seems like this applies to many of these devices. It is a great mouse, if it works. I would not recommend this mouse unless you are willing to take the risk. We will exchanging it for a new one, and hopefully this one will work.
5	1385769600	Fantastic, this is an excellent  mouse which is very very responsive, which requires very little set up using synapse 2.0
5	1385769600	This is an amazing mouse. It is very comfortable and feels very sturdy. All of the buttons are easy to get to. I really like the rubber grip on the sides. It is overall an amazing mouse that I would recommend to gamers everywhere.
1	1385683200	Hardware: Great mouse, the curve fits nicely in your palm and it is very comfortable to use. There is a small ridge on the right side of the mouse that is a bit irritating though. It just gets in the way of your finger.Software(MAC):Pros: remembers button profiles, most of the time.Cons: Really needs improvement. Every time the computer connects, or disconnects from the internet, the Synapse pops up demanding your attention; very annoying.I encountered a problem today that inspired me to write this review. iMovie suddenly refused to launch, citing a RazerAudio plugin problem. Why on earth would mouse software corrupt iMovie by means of an audio plugin? This mouse has nothing to do with audio. This is completely unacceptable for a product that claims to have good mac support. I finally managed to uninstall Synapse, and iMovie now works.
2	1385683200	The tracking on this mouse was awful.  I updated to the latest drivers, but, no dice.  Every 3-5 seconds the cursor would jump across the screen and get stuck.  I returned this mouse and ended up getting a Logitech.  The mouse just felt cheap too.I had been hesitant of buying anything from Razer for years since the hard code gaming theme didn't appeal to me.  I had a feeling their products would just be gimmicky and not work well.  Maybe I just had a bad draw, but, that was the case for me.
5	1385510400	You do not appreciate a good mouse until you have one. Although I mainly got it for gaming (which it works very well for), I believe that anyone who spends a notable amount of time on the computer should consider this investment.
3	1385510400	I've had this mouse (an earlier model) for a little more than one year, and it has started to develop a problem with the double clicking. It is working fine now, but it will randomly fall into a double clicking fit. I have not made a serious error on anything because of it, but it is annoying when it happens. Other reviews claim that the problem only gets worse over time, and I plan on purchasing from a different brand. The price drop is appropriate, but I purchased mine for $60. I was very happy with the product until it developed this one small annoyance. Check out the other reviews and see what others have to say.
5	1385424000	I've never used a Razer mouse before so I can't compare it to others. But it was a terrific mouse to have. I play a few fps games and it keeps up perfectly. I love that the wire is covered in a yarn like material (not really sure what it is). But it lets the wire move freely unlike a cheap computer mouse that will be still and kind of hold its shape if you bend the wire.The only thing I would prefer is if you could put the led logo to always be there instead of pulse. I normally just have it off.
1	1385337600	I have had 2 of these mice now. 1purchased here and 1 from Walmart. Niether of then lasted long. They are great for a few weeks and then either the buttons get way too sensitive or don't work at all.
1	1385337600	This mouse does not work on any of my machines.I have RMA'd the device twice now. The first replacement was also faulty, it did not work on any of my machines, however it briefly worked on my friend's mac before failing.This latest replacement is detected by windows on my friend's windows computer, but neither of my machines recognize it when windows boots.My theory, considering both my machines run an MSI motherboards, is that there is something with windows + the MSI board that hurts functionality.While in bios, the mouse does the pulsating green thing, however when windows begins to boot, it appears as if no power goes to the device.While windows is booted, if i plug the mouse into a port (I've tried all USB 2 and 3 ports), I get those three low tones that indicates a plugged in device is not working. Looking at the device manager The entry "Razer DeathAdder 2013" is under the "Other Devices" section and has a yellow triangle with an exclamation point. Looking at the details, the device status reads: "The drivers for this device are not installed. (Code 28)"I've tried uninstalling and reinstalling the Synapse2.0 software to no avail. I've tried asking tech support for the drivers to the mouse so I can avoid going through Synapse, which they were unable to supply to me.Specs:CPU  AMD Turion&#8482; X2 Ultra Dual-Core Mobile ProcessorChipset AMD RX781+SB700Windows  7 64 UltimateLaptop  MSI GT735  [...]So, I suppose, if you run windows 7 64 on an MSI motherboard, consider a different option.
5	1385251200	It's a well designed gaming mouse, responsive, ergonomic, and just plain awesome. I definitely recommend it for anyone trying to make an investment in their gaming rig.
1	1385251200	I wanted to like this mouse.  Unfortunately, it has a couple of serious flaws that prevent it from being usable at all for me.  1) It really doesn't like most surfaces I tried it on.  Often, as I would slide it, it would hit dead zones where it would get stuck momentarily.  2) If you lift the mouse even couple millimeters off the surface, it will deactivate and then take up to 3 seconds to start moving again.  I often pick up the mouse to reposition while I game, so this flaw made it entirely impossible to use for gaming.  This seems like a really serious problem to me.  No other mouse I've used over the years has this problem.Also, others have mentioned the software. I also really do not appreciate having to connect my mouse to the internet.  It's completely unnecessary.  I didn't want any cloud sync functionality (I'm not sure who would), and instead of doing the smart thing of making it opt-in, it's required to even use the mouse software.I picked up a Logitech G500S to replace this and so far it's working great.  Deadly accurate, no loss of movement, great adjustable weight, and feel.
5	1385164800	I love this mouse! just got it for my birthday, quick response feels comfortable and smooth! Couldn't be any more happier!
5	1385164800	This is probably the best mouse I've owned in my life. It is so smooth, so comfortable, and so light. I would definitely recommend this to anyone who is looking for a great gaming mouse.
5	1385078400	This mouse gives you a total unfair advantage over the competition, with superior response that allows your motions to become input instantly it feels like as you think it it happens. Study composition and great quality.
5	1385078400	This mouse is beautiful. I absolutely LOVE it!! The movement is so fluid and the weight is perfect. I use it for MOBA, FPS, and MMOs and do not have trouble with either of them. I do recommend this mouse for anyone at any level of gaming. I even convinced my mom to buy one, and I also have an extra one for travel purposes. Definitely worth the money as I had my old deathadder for quite some time and I can foresee this mouse lasting me awhile even with my intense gaming sessions.
5	1385078400	this is a top nothce mouse great price and is very good for everything.used for all game types, rts,mmo,rpg,fps. very versatile
5	1385078400	Deathadder 2013 is probably the best mouse in the 2013 gaming mouse line. The product quality is at its best and the response is very prompt. Along with the programs Razer offers, you can change the button configuration and also the speed and smoothness of the mouse. Some people might say it doesn't have enough buttons for MMO type of games, but really you don't need more than 5 buttons on this mouse. This mouse is more directed towards FPS type of games and other type of games that require quick mouse movements and such.I love this mouse because of the shape. It just fits on to your hands perfectly. The mouse is fairly long, but you get used to it because it is really comfortable. Along with the ergonomic padding on the sides, it offers grip of the mouse. Also the LED lights are awesome along with the Razer logo.I modded this mouse (I did worry about busting the warranty); just painted the side part of the mouse to white. I also changed the LED color to white (you have to soldier and stuff, fairly risky on killing your mouse). Not that I hate the color of the mouse, I just took advantage of the design of the mouse.This mouse is a must-buy.
5	1385078400	Great ergonomic design helps long hours of playing LOL less stressful on my hand/arm. The software really is quite useful and the buttons are the side click and make for easy use in any game.would recommend
5	1385078400	This mouse is awesome. Move's easily on my mousepad. I like the glowing green light on it. Really comfortable!I like the wire, it's like sleeved kind of, it feels real nice and very flexible. Did I mention it was really really comfortable? Well it is.This mouse is for right-handed people mostly. I'm sure you can use it for your left hand, but it feels much better for right-handed people.I like the feature you can save your profile with your own settings and use the mouse pretty much anywhere with your profile, so that's really cool.
5	1384992000	I've owned a few mice over the years. This is by far the best one I've had. First, the contour to the hand is a good fit for those with larger hands. Second, it doesn't get sweaty and slick like trying to grab a fish. Lastly, the cord is durable and hasn't broken with all the wear and tear I've put it through. I would recommend this mouse for gamers, editors (video, graphic design, web), and websurfers due to the pinpoint accuracy of frequent clicks needed in those genres.
5	1384819200	Works wonderfully! Love the lighting and the design (the mouse wheel and the rubber on the sides of the mouse). Very good gaming mouse with a decent price.
4	1384732800	I'm a lefty and I've always wanted to try a left handed mouse. It took me several weeks to get used to using the mouse and the reversed buttons. It's certainly been a difficult transition. I've been using a right handed mouse for 25 years. It's not easy to just switch right away after so many years.Unfortunately, I am finding that after using the mouse as a lefty, I need to switch to my right hand for awhile to give my left hand a break. I am starting to think it might of been better to just get one of the Razer ambidextrous mice instead. This may be more of a commentary on me than the mouse, but if a user has been using a certain type of mouse for a long period, you may consider just sticking to a right handed or trying a ambidextrous mouse instead.
4	1384732800	I love this mouse. It is simply, functional and works great. I have heard from other users of Razer products that require the use of Synapse 2.0 how awful it is, but I have not had a glitch! It works like a dream for me. I use this in concert with the Orbweaver and the Synapse 2.0 program allows me cross functionality. Personally, I prefer Razer products when it comes to my input devices. I plan to add a keyboard to my set up here soon.Please read other reviews besides mine. I have had a wonderful experience with my DeathAdder 2013 and the Synapse 2.0 software. Not everyone has, so be informed when you make your choice. I think you will like it.
4	1384732800	The mouse is even better than I expected. It could be a placebo effect but the optical sensor has a cool feel to it. The only con I can think of is that it is INCREDIBLY light, which I didn't particularly care for feel wise at first, but I've since gotten used to it.The software that comes with the mouse is also powerful, and most importantly for me, supports both Mac OSX and Windows.
5	1384646400	I loved my old Deathadder and this one is quite different but the same in the ways that count.It feels like they have improved on some of the design elements, like the scroll wheel, which is fine. I'm a little upset they change the colour and texture though, but I grew to not care. It does feel like it's more sturdy and the DPI has been literally multiplied.For the same price that is more than worth it.For those who have never owned one it is an extremely comfortable larger right handed mouse with a high DPI for low price. At this high of a DPI it really does not make a difference but there are some out there who might swear they can tell.All in all it's still my favorite mouse even compared to far more expensive Razer, Logitech, and Roccat mice.
4	1384646400	Bought this mouse to replace a Logitech G700 that developed the infamous &#34;ghost double-click&#34; problem which often made single-clicking, and clicking & dragging impossible.Compared to the G700, the Razer also has a very nice hand feel, and features the same ultra-slippery mouse feet. The only thing I don't like about my new Razer is that I can't really rest on my hand on it because the buttons are so sensitive (which is a plus for gamers, I suppose, but a con for casual use).LINUX NOTE: one other point worth noting is that out of the box this mouse is VERY VERY VERY sensitive and even with the sensitivity&acceleration; set to minimum under linux, it's still way too sensitive. The only way to turn down the sensitivity is to plug the mouse into a Windows computer and run their software (which requires an ACCOUNT) in order to store a lower sensitivity default config in the mouse.
5	1384646400	Great mouse! perfect for both rts and fps gamingalso really comfortable for hours of gaming.Haven't had any issues concerning of its performance.
5	1384646400	Left handers don't have many options for high quality peripherals.  After years and years of using ambidextrous mice/trackballs, I finally purchased this mouse.This is a comfortable and reliable mouse.  After using this at home for several years, I bought a second one for work.  No problems to speak of for either device.
5	1384560000	Love this mouse. I was always a Logitech guy before, and I still enjoy using my Logitech mice, but this mouse is great as well. Love the rubberized sides, much better than the older DeathAdders. It's also a little lower/smaller than the Logitech MX518 and G500/G500s, just so you know. I kind of miss the button that frees the scroll wheel, but that's a very minor thing. Feels great, no complaints here.
5	1384560000	hands down the best mouse I have ever owned. It just feels good in the hand! My roommates are all jealous and are wanting one themselves!
5	1384473600	Very easy to use mouse, responds instantaneously and it fits my needs perfectly. I use it mostly for gaming and it is a great mouse.
5	1384473600	Excellent gaming mouse. If you play FPS, make sure you set your DPI to the highest level (or one lower from highest) and then set your sensitivity inside the game quite low. Please remember that mouse alone wont do the trick, you absolutely need to make sure that the mouse mat is also good, otherwise your computer will have glitches when trying to receive your fast mouse movements. For the mat I'd recommend $12 Razer Sphex Gaming Grade Desktop Skin.
1	1384473600	I experienced no problems with this mouse for the first 4 months. At about month 5, sometimes when I booted up my computer the mouse wouldn't respond. I would have to unplug the mouse, reboot, then plug the mouse back in. This was annoying but easy enough to deal with. The mouse would continue to function as long as I did not reboot my computer.Recently, the mouse will stop responding while I am connected to windows. Likewise, I need to stop what I'm doing, unplug the mouse, and reboot my computer to get it to function again.You can do a web search for Razer DeathAdder 2013 with keywords like &#34;not recognized&#34; &#34;stopped working&#34; &#34;not responding&#34; and find other people who've experienced the same issue. There doesn't appear to be a solution. I've tried updating and removing the mouse drivers and modifying the polling rate without any resolution.
4	1384300800	I love this mouse. I bought this last onr as a replacement for another deathadder, which unfortunately my younger brother ruined with a glass of juice (as well as a monitor and keyboard...).It feels good (I prefer palm grip over claw grip) and has a nice rubber-like texture. I typically turn off the palm light, the green strobe is pretty bright. Also, I'm not too fond of razer synapse (the software) being cloud based, but other than that, I have no complaints.
5	1384300800	The quick response and effort of each button, the software that enables varying acceleration inputs, and the overall look are great! The acceleration adjustment makes gaming much more enjoyable, the quicker I flip my wrist, the faster the mouse courser moves, what an Idea!
5	1384214400	Perfect mouse. The form of the mouse fits perfectly with my hand and my husband's as well (which he has issues with, his hands are large). We got this mouse to play Battle Field, Diablo, and Path of Exile, and it does the job well. The green light is bright, but not overbearing. The grips feel great in your hand. Mouse moves smoothly... over all we are both very very satisfied with this mouse.
5	1384214400	I bought this for my son. Here's his review.This is an amazing mouse! I plug it in and it works perfectly, zero hassle or wait. Then downloading their software from their website was great: I created an account and registered for Razer synapse 2.0 which makes it so you can remap the buttons and it keeps your setting saved in the cloud.After installing it I restarted my computer and it was done. The whole thing took no more than 10 minutes and was simple and easy. The mouse's ergonomic design makes it fit perfectly in your hand feels very comfortable even after hours of gameplay. The tracking is perfect and superior to other mice I have used. The cord isn't even your regular cord, it's made out of a braided fiber mesh material and you can feel the quality. I am very impressed and highly satisfied. Try this mouse out! You won't regret it.
5	1384128000	It been the best gaming mouse I hadIt's very fastI love it you guys should get it really!!!!
1	1384041600	I really, REALLY tried to like this mouse. It feels pretty good in the hand and is responsive in all facets of gaming.But after only a few months, the scroll wheel has gone haywire. Randomly while scrolling the screen will flicker in the opposite direction, as if mid-scroll you switched direction on the scroll wheel. This is more annoying than I could have imagined. There are attempted fixes to this issue (obviously a device defect), but they do not succeed in their attempt.I will contact Razer support to see if they stand by their products.Edit: Razer support wants their customer to pay shipping for THEIR faulty product. Say what? Definitely sticking with Logitech for all my gaming peripherals from now on. I wish they still made the AMAZING MX518 mice (which are now sold for a small fortune; looks like G400s is the new model). Best mice I've ever owned. Still have 2 of them working flawlessly after 6+ (I'm pretty sure 8) years of continual use. Lets see, a mouse that lasts &lt;6 months, or >6 years. I'll stick with Logitech, and so should you. Razer makes bad products and follows it up with bad support.
4	1383868800	I have been wanting to purchase this mouse for months, but I wanted to get the maximum lifetime of my old mouse before buying the DeathAdder 2013. I am pleased to say I am very happy with this mouse. The lights are vibrant, it is very comfortable and the buttons are very tactile and hyper response. The ONLY problem I have with this mouse is the scroll wheel. When I scroll up, it makes a rattling noise as well as when I shake it. I have contacted Razer support and they are working with me to deal with this. Overall, this mouse is perfect for any need, especially gaming.
5	1383782400	I love this mouse. I'm right handed, but tendinitis from working at a computer all day &#34;forced my hand&#34; to try something else. I tried using the right handed mouse with my left hand, which many people do, but it seemed dumb and clunky. This made the transition easy, and it's a much better quality product than most others on the market.
5	1383696000	Works perfectly. Ultra responsive on any surface. Very comfortable even during extended use. Couldn't be happier with it. Worth every penny!
4	1383696000	I love this mouse so much! But it makes me sad that i might have to send it back, Reason is it works perfectly fine but it jitters across the screen and its weird that i can't figure out why it does! HELP!
5	1383609600	Amazing mouse, the two side buttons make games so much easier to play. this is my first gaming mouse, and I much prefer it over my friends mice. Some of my friends have the Razer Naga, and while it has like 12 buttons I prefer my 2, and this just fits my hand better.
5	1383609600	Fantastic mouse, absolutely keeping this one (and I had recently tried out 2-3 different kinds before settling with Razer).  Recommended for anyone wanting very precise movement and responsiveness.
5	1383523200	I don't care what you say or what you think. I don't own many gaming mouses, in fact I've only ever owned one, which I bought using my parent's money when I was in high school and into games such as CS 1.6 and Dota. Yeah, gaming mouses are all amazing...I know because between using the cheap ordinary mouses and gaming mouses, gaming mouses make you pro, instead of just "good."The is the second gaming mouse I have ever owned in my life, and since I don't usually buy stuff like this, all I can say is...compared with others, for it's price, quality, looks, whatever...this thing freaking rocks. Have a good day my friends.
5	1383523200	very nicei really like it.... this mouse is amazing .my friend like it very much play lol is nice
5	1383523200	Comfortable, looks great and does its job. The two extra side buttons really help out on certain games and makes web browsing easier. The scroll mouse works great, fast response with notches make switching weapons easy. Buttons have good click response.
5	1383523200	Aside from being an awesome looking mouse, I find the shape of the mouse a perfect fit for my hand,.At first i was surprised to how big the DeathAdder is, I have been using a generic mouse prior to getting my DeathAdder 2013 and there was some bit of getting used to it at first.I thought it would be a little awkward to use it but the moment a tried playing CS on it, it felt very natural. I still have not utilized the two side buttons though and maybe  I will just record some macros on it for my other games.I have also recently purchased a Razer Deathstalker keyboard, And I was torn between an Abyssus and this, but thankfully I choose this to match the green lights from my Deathstalker. And now, except for my old worn out mouse pad, my computer setup looks awesome!
5	1383523200	It's a mouse, it works, it just... works. Logo turns out to be invasive thank god you can shut it down from the app. But I keep feeling I should have bought the R.A.T since that one could be customize to fit my large hand.
5	1383523200	You just got to love the feeling of your hand in this mouse. As a hardcore gamer I have to incourage everyone who is having doubts of which mice to buy, or just changing it for whatever reason you have, to try this great, great mouse.The feeling is an improvement over the my OLD mice (DeathAdder 1800dpi version), the textures feels like its always clean, that you're always grabbing it and it won't move to where you don't want to. My old DA was beginning to feel very dirty, very fragile, and not just as good as it was even though I took pretty good care of it, the years took the best of him.The technical details, well, they're there, they're powerfull and they're great, I don't think I will be coming back to infrared mouse after having this 4g optical with me, but this mouse isn't just about the specs, it's about the feeling.This is THE most comfortable mouse you'll ever hold.It's price it's fair enough for the great mouse that it is. Even for not gamers, still this is a high quality product that will endure time, (again, ex-DeathAdder 1800dpi mouse user).I have the opportunity to compare this to the black edition and the DA 3500dpi edition and I think (at least to me, of course) that the new finish, the new materials are working great and it gives this old classic a fine tune up to stay up-to-date (besides his massive 6400dpi).Still I'll like some on-the-fly or something to manipulate more freely the dpi, and of course I will very much like something to put some weight on this mouse. Besides this, it's still a 5/5
5	1383436800	Perfect gaming mouse goes exactly where you want it to go which is what I wanted.  I wanted a mouse that will be reliable and this is it.  I would definitely recommend.
3	1383350400	I have two mayor problems with the mouse:1) When scrolling up the wheel feels horrible and sound even worst it does a &#34;Crack&#34; sound2) The right click feels soft not so good
5	1383264000	This is the best gaming mouse my son has used to date. Much more responsive than your typical mouse. If gaming is your thing, this is your mouse.
5	1383177600	Finally Left Handed Mice !~  this is a great mouse, I've used RAZER mice for years, they're fantastic. It's about time someone put out a fairly priced Left Handed mouse.  thanks Razer ~
5	1383177600	I am not disappointed with this mouse. I love being able to change my DPI on the fly. Yet sometimes my hand/wrist do tend to get sore. I don't know if that's just the way I have my desk set up or what. Other than that, This is a pretty snazzy mouse.
5	1383091200	Had the imperator before but it's a bit overpriced for functions I can't really get behind. This work great, highly recommended.
1	1383091200	just got it, plug it in and trying to set it up, and guess what?  the spyware synapse 2.0 software requires me to create an account and sign into it to even download it.  W T flaming F.  I googled for more info as I am not in the habit of installing anything without info.  it is basically a spyware to data mine my pc.  I just spent 52$ on buying a mouse, I am not about to install a spyware for something I paid for.to anyone thinking of buying this, STAY AWAY.  unless you don't mine being data mined.if I could, I would return it, but where I live it would be a huge pain in the ass.  now I have to treat a 52$ mouse as a generic mouse, what a sad day this is.I wish I could give it -5 stars on the ratings.
5	1383004800	This is the best thing that has happened when it comes to left handed gaming.  Left handedness is the best thing that razor has done.  Super responsive and very clean and not lost data.  This is the best gaming mouse for left handed people out there.
5	1383004800	I had a Performance MX for a while and it was okay but it started acting up so I began a search for anew mouse but I didn't want to go wireless. I found the DeathAdder and was impressed with what I read about it. And I could be happier. It's great. Very precise, nice feature but simple to use. I'm not a big gamer basically only play FO3 ,FNV and Skyrim but this thing sure makes it nice.
5	1383004800	I Think this mouse is awesome. The pads on the right and left are great.To be honest, I can't find any cons for it.
5	1382918400	I've owned about 4 Death Adders over the past 5-6 years. a little ridiculous, but I really love the mouse and always just wished it had better ergonomics. every single release they've done has slowly perfected the ergonomics of an amazingly accurate and technically capable mouse backed up by an excellent cloud settings software. This is, by far, the best mouse I've ever used. The new side rubber grips and textured feeling of this mouse are unbelievably comfortable. The back lit scroll wheel and slowly blinking Razer emblem are nice touches.Just a warning, I had a problem with the first one of these I owned. It kept constantly freezing up every other 5 minutes and it would eventually totally freeze. Unplugging it didn't always solve it, but sometimes it would, but it would always come back and freeze up. I sent it away on warranty, as I had only owned it for a few months. I had excellent tech support through e-mails, and we tried everything. I eventually sent it back on warranty and the problem is fixed with the new mouse I had. I was worried it might be a software issue, but it wasn't. Just a heads up to anyone who might receive this same problem.
5	1382918400	I have been using Copperheads for years and refused to upgrade because I fear change.  Finally caved.Does not have the two additional buttons on the right side (that the Copperhead had), but I didn't use them that often anyway. Feels great. Looks awesome. Love the grip texture for the thumb and the additional 'heft' of the mouse, both in shape and weight. The shape is also significantly more comfortable for me (female, smaller hands than a guy if that matters) - much easier to drape your fingers and the ball of your hand on.I use primarily for FPS but also action, MMOs, etc. - probably doesn't have enough wacky buttons for super hardcore MMO raiders, though.
5	1382918400	When I first used it, it just felt like a normal mouse. Then, when going back to another mouse, I could definitely see the difference. I mainly use my computer for 3d modeling and game programming. The ergonomic version of this definitely makes my hand feel a lot better than a normal mouse, especially after long hours of computer use.
4	1382918400	All in all seems to be a good mouse, havent had any issues with it yet, and i have put it through the ringer the last month or two so its holding up so far....Cons: only one i have is i should have went with a couple more buttons, 5 just isnt enough sometimes!
5	1382918400	This mouse is very comfortable and ergonomical and you can use either palm or claw grips quite easily. The 4g sensor is a thing of beauty and is pinpoint accurate making fps games that much more of a pleasure to play. If you are a gaming then there's no reason not to own the DeathAdder.
5	1382832000	The Razer DeathAdder is an amazing mouse to use, its comfortable, sturdy, and looks amazing with the pulsating green Razer logo. I would highly recommend this mouse to anyone who is a PC gamer.
5	1382832000	3500 displayed pixels per inch guaranteed. Smooth accurate and great for gaming with two extra buttons for whatever you want.
5	1382832000	Great mouse. Everything's faster without the lag I was experiencing with my old Microsoft Wireless mouse 6000.The benefit is not just for gaming but for every move you make with the mouse when you're trying to work fast.And it feels good in my hand.
5	1382745600	This mouse is the best mouse I have ever purchased! It's accurate, it detects all the slightest movements, and it is just plain amazing! It is the most comfortable mouse I have used to date.
5	1382745600	It is comfortable to hold. And it is a good choice for game players. And the light is brilliant. Proper size.
5	1382745600	Super comfortable mouse. It is extremely smooth and responsive on games. I will always stick with a razor death adder mouse for gaming over any other mouse!
5	1382659200	I had a steelseries sensei before this mouse. I changed the mouse because everything from steelseries breaks fast. The razer deathadder feels very good and smooth. Would buy it again. Razer did a very good job like always!
5	1382486400	Used to use the Deathadder a few years ago, went to a different brand but nothing can beat the feel this mouse.
4	1382486400	Tough to write a lot about a mouse, but I'll try.  I had been a Logitech devotee for a long time.  But my cat apparently is not as he's broken 3 wireless mice (including 2 expensive ones) by knocking them off my desk.  So I decided I needed to go back to corded until my cat no longer plays with mice (how ironic).  After looking, I was between the Deathadder and the SteelSeries, but chose the Deathadder.  I'm glad I did; it's substantially more comfortable.  I'm a palm grip, and this is easily as comfortable as the top end MX from Logitech.  The scroll wheel isn't as nice as the metal gear driven ones, but that's the only reason I'm knocking off a star.  Otherwise, solid mouse.
4	1382400000	I have been using the Death adder for over 1 year and I have finally decided to review this product. The Deathadder is a gaming mouse that I always wished for, it has the nice glow, the braided wires are great and reduces cable twisting, the size of this mouse is great for a someone with a big hand of mine. It has a very comfortable design not allowing me to cramp even after hours of game play. The only problem I have with this mouse is how non sweat proof it is, unlike the new Logitech mouses after about 1 hour of use you could see sweat all over the mouse and if longer or after a long time of using this mouse you would see these particles and the mouse starts getting dirty greasy looking and filled with these solid sweat (or dead skin) which really disturbs me.
5	1382400000	I am in love. I like how accurate it is with FPS Gaming. I can't say much about besides that it works, it has sexy LEDS That illuminate etc.. feels good in the hand especially if you're a -&#34;CLAW Grip&#34;-  Based Gamer. I'm a hardcore gamer that takes price in buying the best at the time for whatever i'm doing.Pros: Razer LOGO illuminates, it has 2 extra Macro buttons on the left side off the mouse for extra programming, it's made for right handed users, &#34;Great for claw Grips&#34;. I LOVE the Rubber and anti slip grip coating on the mouses surface.Cons: None so far. I really like it. &#60;3 &#60;3
5	1382313600	I've heard it said before, but it really does bear mentioning again... Gaming mice with adjustable DPI are truly the best normal input tool for creative work. I'm a working photographer & designer, and I'm on my 3rd Razer product.Not because they're bad, mind you. But because I've felt compelled to buy one for every computer I regularly use. Laptop, desktop, PC, Mac... This mouse and the wireless notebook version of it have been solid performers for me. Very good response on any surface, and very cool aesthetics. Personally, I prefer the older blue LEDs to this new green, but it's growing on me.The really great bit about this new version is the rubber sides. Very pleasing and grippy. It also feels like the surface of the mouse is made out of a slightly courser material... the mouse exudes quality.
5	1382227200	Exactly what I wanted, works fabulously  You won't be disappointed in this purchase  Razer makes a good product and you will love the green
5	1382227200	The Razer DeathAdder 2013 Ergonomic PC Gaming Mouse is amazing. It's feels comfortable in my hand, is insanely responsive and works on almost any surface excluding glass.
5	1382227200	Bought this after reading about many different mice. This replaced my Intellimouse Explorer 4.0 which lasted me more than 5 years. It is on slightly smaller in size. I could only tell the difference when I set the Intellimouse and Deathadder side by side and rested my palm on them alternatively. The left side buttons that are commonly used for Forward/Back in web browsers are much larger which is very nice, though their place more towards the center of the mouse instead of towards the front which took me several days to get used to using. Tension and Button Travel Depth I would say is just right. Has lights on the wheel and palm area that can be turn off individually, and their only in green, I turned off the one on the palm while keeping on the wheel light.Synapse 2.0 provides all the functionality you could need. With a highly adjustable dpi this one is a definite winner for gaming. It would have been very nice if there were buttons that were specifically for adjusting the dpi to various different setting for different situations in some games, though I believe the side button can be changed to do this. The cable is plenty long enough and has a nice tangle resistant covering on it. The mouse slides smooth as silk on a Razer Mousepad I bought a couple of years ago. For my self only a couple more things would have made this mouse perfect, a couple of buttons specifically for dpi adjustment, size of the mouse increase by about 15-20% (I use XL to XXL Gloves), different light color settings instead of only green. The 2 other mice I was considering was a Rat7 and a Razer Ouroboros.
5	1382227200	The mouse is very easy to use being left-handed and I love it. Good to look at lites up the room when playing a game
5	1382140800	I just bought it, I used to have the old deathadder with the blue light. Deathadder is just perfect for FPS gaming and strategy games as well. I love the new grip you have on the mouse. It just perfect and goes well with my Blackwido Ultimate 2013. All green.I really don't wanna mention about any cons but unfortunately there is one which will not really matter to person who actually won' t travel. It doesn't have the DPI switching button at the bottom as it use to have in old death adder. I wish it was there so u can save the profiles with what ever the speeds you want and can easily switch them without having Razer Synapses. It's not a big deal though but just a thought.Overall this mouse is awesome and I love it and will love it :DDeathAdder ftwGood luck
5	1382054400	You are probably thinking what happened to the first one.  Actually I have been gaming on the 3.5G 3500DPI DeathAdder for about two years or more.  It still works, actually I wanted another mouse so I bought the 2013 version.  The surface texture of the mouse itself is slightly rough compared to the 3.5G version.  This helps with grip, but feels kind of dirty to the touch.  The little rubber side grips added to the side are a plus, the old version was slick and slippery.  It melds well with the cloud synapse drivers and set up is easy.  If you like heavy mouse feel this may not be the mouse for you.  It is medium weight feel for medium to large hands.  The 5 stars is mostly for durability, since I have thousands and thousands of clicks on my old 3.5G and it works great still, I am sure this mouse will be the same.
5	1382054400	I never had any kind of gaming mouse, i had always played with normal simple mouse. With this mouse, you can feel slowly the mouse, its exelent for gaming and for normal activity 100% recomend
1	1381968000	Product arrived with a non-functional mouse button number 5. Checking on the internet reveals this is a common problem. Guess what reviews say about Razer's lack of quality is true.
5	1381968000	easy to hook up and understand. for one its not to complicated. Point and go push the buttons on the computer bingo. the  settings for speed just need to be experimented with until you find the one  you want.
5	1381881600	HelloProduct reached me, but a strange sound coming from the wheelThe same as in this video : [...]Can I change the product?
5	1381622400	I was having a horrible time with my $15 wireless mouse from Walmart, so then I heard of this product and intensely fell in love with it. It is amazing and so perfect. BUY IT! You will not regret it.
1	1381622400	It worked flawlessly for 4 months, it was the perfect mouse, suddenly it stoped working, tried it in multiple computers and no one of them recognized it, since I live outside the US the shipping for returning it for warranty matters would be too expensive and I preffer buying other mice from another developer, I was ready to buy more razer products but this changes everything, worst quality I've ever seen, even a $15 gigabyte mouse lasts longer
5	1381536000	Its very comfortable, very grippy surfaces, and just the right weight. The buttons feel just right, as does the track wheel. No more buttons than I need, I hated the DPI buttons on my old Logitech I would press them accidentally. This will never be a problem here. Tracking is fantastic. I increased DPI and decreased sensitivity on Windows.The software works just fine, I dont know what people are complaining about. Its not bloated and its easy and concise to use.
5	1381536000	I have used Razer before, the old deathadder with the blue light at my friends house many times. I finally decided to get a new gaming mouse and went with the Deathadder 2013, it is awesome. Works great with Windows 8 and Synapse 2.0, I have not experienced any problems with it whatsoever; you can also turn off the green light on the scroll wheel and the mouse through Synapse 2.0 if you want to.
5	1381363200	It's without a doubt one of the best optical mice around. You get all the added benefits of an optical mouse (that being improved tracking and precision) in a ergonomic package.It's just harder today to find good high quality mice with solid sensors that do not skip, or give up during mid track, but OMFG 7200 DPI 133t gaimer pro editon mice saturate the market. If you're a low sensitivity gamer then this is one among only a handful of mice that will really cut it.Tracking 5/5 (Have experienced zero tracking issues)Ergonomics 5/5 (Very nice palm design, buttons cradle fingers, if you prefer a more ambidextrous edesighn you might not enjoy the deathadder)Right and Left click 5/5 (short travel, really crisp)Extra buttons 4/5 (Logically placed, nice crisp click to them, could have easily included one more button thoughScroll wheel 5/5 (Very crisp, easy to measure out notches without thinking about it. Has a very solid click to it.)Drivers 4/5 (Horror stories of Synapse exist, and if this was a year ago they'd be correct. Synapse has gotten so much better now. I've experienced zero issues with its performance since I've gotten this Deathadder. I still think cloud storage for driver is a dumb idea when it's made mandatory.)
2	1381276800	I bought this mouse back in January and haven't had a problem with it until now.  All of a sudden, my left click either double clicks or doesn't register a click at all.  I noticed while playing League of Legends.  I bought wards and tried to switch the position in my inventory and ended up placing a ward on the map by accident.  This happened 3 times in 2 games.  I've done this countless times as I main support so I wasn't doing something wrong.I'll try various fixes I've seen mentioned online, but this should not be happening.  I really hope I don't have to throw this mouse out because I like it otherwise but this problem is unacceptable.I'm done with Razer products as the Blackwidow 2013 keyboard I have also has it's problems with either the L key not registering a keystroke or it typing 2 and even 3 L's on one key press.  Truly ridiculous for these expensive products, I might as well stick with cheap stuff that lasts forever.
1	1381017600	I have the previous generation of this mouse. After a couple years of use, it went haywire and started double-clicking or non-clicking. I troubleshot and it is certainly a problem with the mouse. Let me note that I've been using computers since the 80s and never had any other mouse malfunction. This mouse, which is also the most expensive I've ever purchased, is the only to have broken down.I wrote Razer asking for help. The official response? "Sorry, out of warranty. Can't help." They used more words, but that was the essence. When I wrote back stating I knew it was out of warranty but that I was trying to ask if they had any suggestions for how I could fix it or if I simply needed to buy a new one, they responded with, "We cannot replace your mouse. It is out of warranty." Totally irrelevant response to get me to go away. It also took a week for this email exchange to happen.Terrible customer service. Cheaply made, overpriced products that look slick but fall apart, and then there is no support. Read the other one-star reviews. Find another brand.
4	1380844800	Solid mouse. Very responsive and fits very well in hand. (large hands) Cool lighting and long cord. This mouse suits me well.
4	1380844800	The Razer Death Adder is incredible. Simply put the best mouse I have ever owned. Very Satisfied with my purchase
5	1380844800	feels great when I use it, nice accuracy for fps and great profile feature for a reasonable price and good quality
4	1380844800	Pro: solid mouse and texture of exterior makes easy to grip. Responsive to clicks and took a few days to get accustom for larger mouse.Con: side back/forward buttons feel cheap and oil buildup on rubber thumb rest is annoying BUT comfortable regardless. Took a star off.
5	1380758400	just enough buttons for mespeed and control works great on my goliathus padfeels great even with my slightly oversized handonly con i have with this is the mildly firm cordi just give it some slack and it doesn't bother me to much
5	1380758400	Had this mouse for three years and have put a least a thousand hours on it: no problems.  I say this to address some of the durability issues that have been raised.  Not to say you can't get a lemon, but I've never owned a more durable mouse.  I usually go through about one a year.For left handers, really, what are your options?  It's this or an ambidextrous mouse that has the buttons where you want them, but doesn't fit your hand properly.  Or, you can mouse right handed (like I had to do at work because they wouldn't approve the use of personal mice) and just suffer.  I just hope that Razer doesn't discontinue this model.  If they go on sale I'm going to buy a couple for the future.
4	1380672000	but not my favorite. The side buttons by your thumb are pretty cheesy. They click like mouse buttons from the early 90's. The main buttons are nice, though. The size/shape of the mouse doesn't suit me personally (I have large hands). It looks really nice and the mouse wheel is great.Other than the cheap feeling thumb buttons, the mouse is functionally execellent. I like the rubber grips on the sides, they have just the right texture and material to grab really well. The finish of the mouse is good, but not really anything special, and feels like it won't wear out. The LED mouse wheel and logo are neat additional features. I got this mouse because I dropped my Logitech G700 and broken the mouse wheel click and a side button. I'm going to buy another G700 eventually, I wanted to give Razer a try. The mouse is good, it's just not for me.
5	1380672000	This is my first razer mouse and i bought this about a month ago. So far it's been great. It's a pretty big mouse which is fine by me because it fits my hand and is very comfortable to use. Cord is pretty long too. I read some reviews a while back about there being issues with the scroll wheel but it feels sturdy to me. Will update if any issues arise.
5	1380672000	This mouse is great! It looks cool and works great. The only complaint I have is that it gets my hand pretty sweaty after long periods of use. That however is a very small complaint and that shouldn't sway your opinion on weather or not to get this. It is by far the best mouse I have ever used.
4	1380672000	For a guy with big hands, this mouse is awesome! theres a few grip issues with palm grip, but the size makes it worth using
5	1380585600	I really enjoy using this mouse!There, I said it. It really is a pleasure to use for gaming, browsing, or whatever your needs are. I honestly don't know what else to say about this mouse, it's probably the best mouse that I have ever used.The one thing that you should know before buying this mouse: It is tall. Much taller than the last mouse that I had. It doesn't detract from my use of the mouse, I actually think it's more comfortable, but it's just something that I should have known before I bought it.Again, fantastic mouse.
1	1380412800	Was one of the only left handed gaming mice available.  It lasted about 8 months and promptly fell apart.  I am not a heavy handed gamer, we're talking normal use, normal wear and tear.  The first thing to go was the scroll wheel.  It no longer would scroll properly on webpages, scrolling down would make the page go up normally more than it would go down.  Web searching this problem returned many results leading me to believe this is a common problem with this DeathAdder 3500 series mouse (left and right handed included).  After the scroll wheel it was the left mouse button would frequently double click.I would not recommend this mouse.
5	1380412800	Overall, a really solid mouse.  I recommend it to anyone, and particularly to gamers who want a superior quality product.
1	1380326400	Razer forces you to create an account with them before you can use the software with the mouse. You cant configure the mouse in any way until you make an account with them and activate your computer and account through their server. If they decide to take down their activation server for any reason, you will never be able to use the software. If you live somewhere without access to internet, you will not be able to activate and use the software. If you work somewhere that has a network behind firewalls, chances are even though you can download the Synapse software, the firewall may also block you from activating and using the software as well.If your connection drops out for any reason, the Synapse software will make a habbit of locking up on you while it transitions to offline mode. During that time your settings may revert or possibly not be saved.Yes, you can use the mouse as plug and play with basic functionality if you choose not to make an account and activate your computer, but who pays $80 for a basic plug and play mouse? The reason people buy the Razer 2013 is the configurable buttons and to change the DPI, polling rate, set up macros and profiles along with everything else. Razer has no right to lock this away from customers who paid for these features. For the Deathadder 2013 mouse, there is no other offline drivers to revert to. Synapse 2.0 is your only option.Razers Synapse 2.0 software is always online. If you have an internet connection active, Razer will be constantly using it constantly downloading updates and interrupting your full screen applications. Not only that, as I suspected, the Synapse 2.0 software is spying on you
3	1380240000	I'll start off by saying that this was my first gaming mouse.  Compared to my previous no-name $15 mouse it is very comfortable in my mid-size hand and handles very smoothly.Downside is that they don't seem to last.  First DeathAdder lasted about 18 months before it just fell apart one day.  I bought a second DeathAdder because I liked the feel of the first one.  Today, a little over 1 year since I bought the second one, it just dies.  None of the troubleshooting I've done is getting anywhere.  I've bought I $10 USB mouse from Best Buy to hold me over until I get a new gaming mouse, which will not be a Razer.  Sorry Razer, but as comfortable as these mice were, they're not worth shelling out $60 every year or so.
5	1380240000	I work on a cloud based environment, so I must have a left handed mouse--I cant just switch the buttons on my local computer or everything is messed up.  This mouse is amazing, and yet so cheap.
5	1380153600	Nothing much to add other than saying I just totally love holding it in my hand and gazing at the green LED. It moves smoothly, is very responsive, I could setup my DotA 2 macros using Razer synapse in a jiffy and runs smoothly. A great purchase, keep it up Razer!
1	1380067200	Let me  start by saying this is an amazing mouse, fits great in the hand and glides so smoothly against that mesh surface of that often dull mouse pad. Sounds like the making of a perfect mouse, right? Wrong. So very, very wrong.My experience has been frustrating and horrendous and will need to be broken up into four sections...The Mouse:For a solid two and a half months it worked spectacularly well, no hiccups or glitches or anything. Heck, I didn't even need the beguiled Synapse software that's recommended to install. It was great, until it wasn't. I was using it perfectly fine until late one night around 1 am; went to sleep, woke up and turned on the computer around 9 am. The mouse did not power on. No lights, no response. Plugged it into 3 other computers, one of which was a laptop -- nada. It died. Good chance to try out support for such an expensive product, right? Well...The Support:After an annoying process of treating me as if I know nothing about computers and troubleshooting tech problems. I understand they have to cover the basics, but I explicitly listed the steps I took and they made me go through them again. Mouse didn't work still, was told to ship it back to them. This required me to go grab a mouse off the shelf from the nearest Fry's in the meantime (Logitech M510, third of the price, totally worth checking out). Paid the fee for shipping the defective product back to them. They reported they "fixed" it and that the firmware just needed to be update. Since when does a lack of firmware update stop a product from working, I have no idea. Turns out, I plug it in and nothing still. They did NOTHING. They then had the gall to ask me to ship it back to them for a replacement, I said I wouldn't oblige and they settled for me sending them a picture of the mouse with the cord cut -- understandable. So, I get a replacement...The Mouse (Round II):Two solid months of superb performance and then it's double-click galore. Every single physical left-mouse click would register as a double-click in the software. Never mind the annoyance in gaming this makes, mind the fact that it makes the mouse nearly useless. Any click-drag registers a second click upon release, I couldn't mass select things for the life of me. If there was ever a tech product worth checking if it blends, it'd be this. So I contact support again, this time equipped with the cord-cutting scenario so there's no shipping fee I have to unnecessarily pay and back to that reliable Logitech...The Support (Round II):Getting a refund is out of the question since I've had the product for too long, but they're willing to send me a new unit (again). Sigh, alright, let's do it. Cord cut, picture sent, address and contact info sent (changed from the last time I needed a replacement). Now, at this point, two things happened. One, they ignored the contact info that I sent and shipped it to the previous address (and misspelled my name!). Really?! Two, the model number clearly lists that it's refurbished. If I'm having trouble with, what are supposed to be, new out-of-the-box mice, how in the name of all things good is a product that was returned to them supposed to be better? That's where I'm at now and the future of this replacement looks bleak already. At this point, it costs me more to take the time to fight this than to just accept it but it's a matter of principle and I stand by the belief that a "premium" gaming device should function with premium results. So, to sum it all up...Tl; DR -- Bugs, bugs everywhere. Don't touch it with a ten-foot pole.
5	1379980800	Keep it short and simple here. I've got larger hands, and this mouse just fits like a glove. I don't think I've ever used such a comfortable mouse before.I plugged it in and it worked flawlessly. BF3 and Far Cry 3 feel like a whole new game with this mouse.Highly recommend it!
5	1379894400	I love this mouse the handling is great and accurate when I play crisis 2, diablo 3, Infinity BioShock, the response is better than other mice
5	1379808000	I Choose a rating of 5 because it is more than I expected the Razer DeathAdder 2013 PC Gaming Mouse to be.  I was shopping for a wired mouse with forward and back option for the thumb, that worked with Windows 8 without a doubt.  After reading the reviews the DeathAdder 2013 sounded close to what I was looking for.  I would recommend this mouse to everybody I know.  It is superior (high grade; superiority; excellence), you can fine tune the features, and sinceativeity adjustment is awesome.  Proud to own my DeathAdder 2013.Regards, Dwight
5	1379808000	Great Gaming Mouse! if your a hardcore game player..it works Great for me I am Left Handed..And Have been very happy with this mouse...Perfect for me!
1	1379808000	I bought a DeathAdder through amazon and about two weeks after receiving the mouse, it totally died on me.  I tried to claim my warranty through razer and I never got the replacement, or a response to my inquiry to be honest.  I loved razer products until my experience with this product.  If I hear back and get a replacement, I will definitely bump my review up as I enjoyed the mouse while it lasted.  Fit comfortably in the hand and was very precise.  Exactly what I was looking for.  My only con was that it was lightweight and delicate feeling.  And from my experience, it is delicate.  Like I said, I love Razer (I own a couple peripherals made by them) and was really hoping to recommend this product.  I simply can't recommend it due to the short life span I experienced.  Hope my experience was a one-off type of thing and not common.On another note, I have replaced this mouse with the Corsair Vengeance M65 mouse.  If you are looking for a gaming mouse, consider the M65 before you buy this mouse.  The M65 feels nice and solid in the hand which certainly wins over the cheap plastic feel of the deathadder.  The DeathAdder and M65 have very similar size profiles.  I'm in love with the M65, guess there was some benefit to getting a dud.
5	1379808000	I'm not a fan of the color green but that's personal preference as well as the grips on the bottom.  The DPI is better than a standard mouse, it has great response times so you aren't missing those costly mili-second mistakes, and for its quality the price is right!
5	1379808000	I'm a left handed person when it comes to computers and I spend many hours each day playing various games. Lately it's been league of legends. I went from a logitech 305m(which died) to this razer mouse. Boy has it made a huge difference in my perfomance.Must have for gamers!
1	1379548800	I don't give 1 stars lightly; this product merits it.To program the mouse buttons, I went to the razersupport webside for the 3.5g deathadder drivers. They only offer legacy drivers years old and one new bit of software called razer synapse 2.0. It is an 'online cloud device updater and profile storage' application. I get it grudgingly thinking I can uninstall it after it grabs the latest drivers. Sadly, this is not to be.Using the tool requires creating an account and validating it with an email address. So I use a honey pot email address and sign up. I run the synapse application, and log in to the server to get the drivers for the mouse. It does so without a hitch and now it is time to change the default mouse settings.I swapped the default left and right mouse buttons(since I'm used to ambidextrous/right handed configs, I don't need left handed config for individual buttons ... I just want to hold the mouse in my left hand is all). I don't know why they have the left and right mouse buttons swapped by default but that is a one time fix, so I thought. They have an annoying visual of the mouse that can be switched from a left handed edition to a right handed addition. This is unnecessary but would not be a big deal except that it complicates my future troubleshooting I will get to below.So I have finished tweaking things(and turning off the silly lights inside the mouse) and it feels great. I close the app thinking I'm done. Immediately the changes revert and I am fumbling to restart the app and see whats going on. I fight with the settings for a bit and then give up and look online. Turns out you must have the app running and the only thing you can do is turn it to 'offline' mode to stop the cloud sync; so much for getting rid of the bloat ware but at least it is only a one time thing right? Wrong.Every time you start your machine, you have to sign in. You can have it remember your credentials and sign you in automatically but you still must sign in. Even in offline mode, this is the case.Now, some people don't really care about these things. I do, so I am rating it based on my preferences. I find this product abysmal. If my reasons why don't matter to you, disregard my rating. However, if you find these connection requirements unacceptable like I do, I strongly recommend not buying this. It is a fine mouse, but the supporting software as bad as any design decision I've seen in software.
3	1379548800	I have loved my Razer Deathadder till the doubleclick came on. Now I'm not sure what to do? I'm past my warranty by like a few months...Razer thoughts?
2	1379462400	i rate it a 2. slow responce too much lag time. my old my old logitec is much faster with 5600 dpi
5	1379462400	I've used Razer mice my whole life and this one just got a hell of a lot better!The texture differs from the regular Deathadder, it feels more textured rather than smooth.But the highlight are the those side grips. So comfortable!!!Only comes with the green light, at least I think. Make sure to DL the Synapse Drivers from Razer website.
5	1379376000	This mouse is amazing, it is stylish with its green illuminating leds with awesome grippy rubber on the sides. The mouse clicks is very sensitive and you can click them with no force at all. The amount of customization is great, Synapse 2.0 is great for changing the dpi, how the leds glow, and what the two buttons on the side do. This mouse is awesome for gamers who want all the performance, for a nice price.
5	1379289600	Fantastic Mouse!  Matches the keyboard and RAZER mouse pad (green).  Mechanically sound.  Software is usable, but not optimal. Would recommend this mouse to any gamer.
3	1379289600	Good shape for my hand and decent response. This is my second, from talking with others, it seems like the scroll wheel on this model can go off on its own sometimes. Other than that, not bad
5	1379289600	One of the best gaming mouse out there. You can ofcourse get better one for more price, but for the price this one comes, I doubt there is any mouse which is better. snug fit in the hands, easily accessible side buttons as well as the left/right click button and the scroll button.Overall a great mouse for beginner to average gamer and something which would not burn a hole in your pocket.
5	1379289600	After a lot of research for a high performance gaming mouse I decided on the Razer DeathAdder 2013. The short version of this review: The DeathAdder 2013 is an amazing mouse for competitive gaming. If you play games, and you're undecided about upgrading your mouse...do it. My personal experience has been phenomenal.I have used other laser mice in the $30 - $55 range previously that were decent, but not on the same level as this. My needs are: precision accuracy and control (no skipping) for gaming (I also use this mouse for graphic design in Adobe programs...it's amazing), comfort in my hand for long work days and gaming sessions, mouse buttons with a highly responsive &#34;feel&#34; (the button compression of the 2 side buttons is by far the best I've experienced), and the ability to adjust the DPI for different games.Precision Accuracy and Control:I primarily play DOTA 2, Starcraft 2, and CS:GO. The advantages of using my new DeathAdder 2013 in place of my previous Logitech and Gigabyte mice was noticeable immediately. My &#34;small movement control&#34; in DOTA 2 and SC2 (moving the mouse rapidly with precision among gaming chaos) is absolutely better. The mouse responds exactly the way my eye &#34;expects&#34; it to on screen...in other words the pointer not skipping at all is crucial when trying to click on small objects at a rapid movement speed. In CS:GO (FPS in general) the ultra smooth responsiveness makes aiming head shots and sniping far more accurate. My overall level of play has increased in each game I play.Comfort and Feel:The shape of this mouse is an art form. For my hand, which is an average size male hand, and my grip, which alternates between mainly claw and some palm, the DeathAdder 2013 feels perfect. It has a matte finish which makes it feel &#34;soft with a slight grip&#34;, as opposed to what I think is the &#34;sticky&#34; feel of shiny mouse finishes. The buttons all feel quick and responsive when clicked, and the 2 buttons on the left side are by far the best I've even experienced on any mouse. They are also a little wider than most side mouse buttons, which for me helps speed up my reaction time when pressing them.DPI adjustment and Synapse 2.0 software:If you play a multitude of games competitively, being able to adjust the DPI for each individual game you play is very important because a single setting is not ideal for all games. My previous mouse accomplished this via a button on the mouse with 3 settings (essentially high, medium, low), which was okay, but the DeathAdder 2013 allows you exact precision via the Synapse 2.0 software. The range goes up to 6400dpi (amazing), adjustable via a slider 100dpi at a time. With Synapse 2.0 I also have the ability to adjust acceleration, polling, and create custom macros. One of my favorite things is the ability to &#34;scan&#34; your particular mouse pad using your mouse, and Synapse 2.0 will adjust for maximum compatibility with that mouse pad. I've tried it with a few different mouse pads, and I think it's excellent.Side tangent...I was apprehensive about the software, as I had read a lot of negative things when it first came out, but it works excellently for me. It has been updated since it's initial release. I love it. Tangent over.With Synapse 2.0 I have a profile for every game I play. The profile contains my custom DPI, control, and macro settings for that game, which launch automatically when I start each game (or program: Photoshop, etc.). The option is available to sync all your settings to the cloud, which makes maintaining your settings simple across multiple computers.
5	1379203200	For someone that has big hands like me and plays palm not claw type this is a great mouse. It feels really good in your hand has really great software from razer to create macros or set your dpi to what u want. The only down fall is that there is no on the fly dpi change on the mouse. I just set one of my macro buttons on my keyboard to do it so its not that big of a deal for me but that may be a downfall for some people that are looking to buy a mouse.
5	1379030400	If you liked the old Microsoft mouse that was similarly shaped, you will love this one.  I use it on my buisiness computer and it helps with hand fatigue.
5	1379030400	This is by far the best mouse I have ever had. I had the original deathadder which was also amazing and it lasted me a solid 5 years. After it passed, I went ahead and got the 2013 addition since I loved the previous version and I must say, this is amazing. It's the same mouse, just better. I love the rubber grips they have added and the matte finish that makes it feel more grippy all around. This mouse is good for everything. Not only that, but the price is unbeatable.I recently tried out the Steel Series Sensei MLG mouse which was nice, but I like this razer better. It's more comfortable and just an over all better build quality. If you are looking for a gaming mouse, or just a mouse in general, then this is the one you want. You won't regret it. I promise.
2	1379030400	My friend bought me this mouse as a birthday present not long ago, but when we opened it we were disappointed. The wire was not wrapped well in cloth, with many pieces of wire not even wrapped. There were parts that were bent out of disproportion, and other pieces sticking out the side of the cloth. Looking at a few others with the same mouse, none of them had the same problem, so I was disappointed. It works well, but the appearance puts me off to a great amount
5	1378944000	Works amazingly. Feels comfortable, it works a lot better then any other mouse I've ever used in my short life
5	1378944000	This is an all around great mouse. I have fairly large hands and it fits them perfectly. I would recommend this mouse to anyone that does any sort of gaming and wants one of the cheaper gaming mouses.
5	1378857600	suitable for almost every kind of games.and it looks fantastic. hopefully it will last a little bit longer than the last wireless one.
5	1378857600	So far so good, works great, feels great, and the settings are perfectly adjustable to meet my play style. definitely recommend this product.
4	1378684800	The 2 buttons on the side and how the mouse is molded makes it a great pro/higher level gaming mouse.
5	1378512000	I used to have the RAT 3. Cheap mouse, but good dpi! it was too light, felt like I was playing with an empty coke can. Switched over to the DeathAdder and I could not be happier! Perfect weight for me, very good dpi, looks sweet, and is heaven in your hand.
5	1378339200	I was gonna purchase it off of the razer website and then I searched on here. It's cheaper and it's the same mouse. This mouse is amazing and a reliable mouse if you're a gamer like me.
5	1378339200	A little while ago, my little brother got the older version of this mouse (the blue one), and i used a couple times and i really liked it. So after a while, i decided to get one, and the 2013 edition just happened to be cheaper at the time, so i got it. I have had it for about 4 months, and I love it. The rubber bits on the sides are nice, and improve grip, and the 6400 DPI sensor is much smoother than any other mouse i have used. The scroll wheel is nice, and it has rubber grips too. I am also a huge fan of the braided nylon sheathing on the cable. The buttons on the side where your thumb is are nice, i use the front one for push-to-talk on teamspeak and mumble. The 1000hz refresh rate is a bit overkill, i just keep mine at 500hz (refresh rate is basically how many times per second the sensor sends the computer an updated location of the cursor, 500hz = 500 refreshes per second). I would highly recomend this product. It is very durable, feels nice in your hands, and preforms amazingly.
1	1378252800	So after reading many glowing reviews about the 2013 model, I decided to take a chance on razer despite numerous warnings about hardware quality. Biggest mistake ever. First and foremost, the mouse is touted as being ergonomic as well as one based for palm gripping. There is no rest for you ring finger or pinky finger and my hand would feel fatigued incredibly fast using this mouse.  Second of all, the internal bracing for the two side buttons gave way fairly early on. Where there was a nice clicky and firm feel to the buttons, there is now loose shifting and the buttons sometimes have their edges caught under the holes in the shell. Third and last of the hardware problems is the right mouse button has begun double clicking after only 8 months of use. I'm sorry but if you're going to charge this kind of money for a mouse, it better last longer than 8 months.So now it's been long enough that I cannot return/exchange it with amazon and in order to initiate an RMA with razer for the same poor product, I have to send in my only mouse leaving me with a desktop machine that I can't use until they can send a replacement. Poor customer service for poor products in my opinion.  First and last razer product.
4	1378252800	It both looks and feels better then a mx518 for the most part. I am able to press down on all the buttons of the DeathAdder quicker than I could on a mx518. However, the middle mouse button is harder to reach on the DeathAdder, and there is a lot of features you might have enjoyed on an mx518 such as quick scroll that are not on the DeathAdder.If your looking for something different or you must replace your mx518 for some reason. The DeathAdder is a good buy for the price.
5	1378252800	This mouse is amazing, I would recommend it to anybody looking for a high quality gaming mouse. The size is perfect for almost anybody and the buttons are truly 'hypersensitive&#34;.
5	1378166400	The form factor of this mouse is great, and perfectly suits my play style. The sensors are super accurate, and it feels like a dream compared to my old mouse.
5	1378080000	I looked for quite a while to find a good mouse. Almost all reviews pointed at the Deathadder being the best if not one of the best. Thought it was reasonably priced as well. I would prefer it to have some more buttons. The mouse itself has an amazing feel and is responsive.
5	1378080000	Buy it, you wont regret it.I changed from my crappy Bluetooth mouse to this, and my stats in halflife GO increases so much.
5	1378080000	I am, at my girlfriends dismay, really starting to get into some FPS lately. Sadly, at 32, I am.. how do you say.. no good at them. My old man brain doesn't like learning new things and more often than not, I find myself cowering behind a rock.. crying "MAMAAAA" into my sniper rifle.I purchased this mouse with one of their fancy mats too and have been more than happy with it's performance. The mouse is EXTREMELY responsive, amazingly accurate, very comfortable, and easy to use. It did take a little bit of getting used to ergonomically as I was used to a simple mouse. The track wheel has no momentum which was one main thing to get used to.I have only one complaint about this mouse; I don't like the lights. I find them to be slightly distracting and if I forget to shut everything down at night, the glow bothers me while I try and sleep.Other than that, this mouse has made me a better person.. there is really no other way to put it. My girlfriend, as much as she will pretend otherwise, is very impressed with my new found skill set. I'm no longer a cowering noob, and I'm pretty sure that turns her on.
5	1378080000	I chose this product because I'm a left hander and I really wan't a comfortable mice for gaming and this hits the spots.The movement of the mouse is incredible especially changing the sensitivity on the razor software to make it perfect.My settings are at:DPI: 1800Acceleration: 0Polling Rate: 1000Windows Mouse settings: 6 Speed and turned of enhance pointer precisionRecommend for Left handers!
5	1378080000	Before I had this mouse I was using the terrible Dell standard mouse for home an work.  I started to have excruciating pain in my knuckle on my pointer finger.  I was prepared to go to a doctor and figure out what was wrong when I thought maybe I should try a new mouse.  I don't have any pain and also it's an awesome mouse for gaming and everyday use.  I have a Mac and I've had no problems with synapse 2.0 either.
4	1377820800	This is an excellent gaming mouse. I am knocking off one star because mine is slightly damaged and the logo lighting on the back of the mouse does not work. This is not a huge deal, but I cant get it to work even inside the synapse software. This mouse is great paired with the sphex.
5	1377820800	I had the previous blue version before which to me was a perfect fit for my hand. Only issue was it was a bit slippery after a long use. But, this new 2013 version fix that issue. They added nice rubber padding so your hand can hold comfortably. I love it, it was worth the purchase.
5	1377734400	I love this mouse! It is the most comfortable mouse I have ever used in my life! It is excellently built and is perfect for gaming or just general use. It slides smoothly on my SteelSeries QcK Mouse Pad. The two extra buttons are useful for common functions I use on my computer such as Push-To-Talk on TeamSpeak 3. I have no complaints about this mouse whatsoever.
2	1377734400	Well, overall, I'm not very happy with my purchase. I'll list the pros and cons of my experience to help anyone who is looking to buy this mouse out.Pros:- In my opinion, the mouse looks sweet! The looks of this mouse are definitely not a problem.- 6400 DPI is a plus. Not that I'd use my DPI at 6400 (Not that ANYONE would use their DPI at 6400!)- The scrolling on this mouse works quite well. My trackpad is the Razer Vespula (Which I do recommend, it's a great mousepad)- The Macros on the right side of the button are conveniently placed, and work very well for my hand.Cons:- The mouse feels cheap. The plastic used for the Macros doesn't feel very sturdy.- No pinky grip. I don't like how my pinky has to cling on to the side of the mouse when tracking, or it will drag.- Second worst part about this mouse: THE WEIGHT! This mouse is way to light. It doesn't feel comfortable to move.- Worst part about this mouse: The way the left and right buttons click. It's quite hard to explain, but these buttons are WAY to easy to click. I'm not sure about anyone else, but, I like a sense of assurance when clicking a mouse. The clicking seems very cheaply done, as the plastic on this mouse is not high quality stuff.Overall, I'm not a fan of my purchase. I'm returning it, and going to try a Razer Naga. If that doesn't work, maybe a RAT 7!
5	1377734400	The best feeling gaming mouse I've ever used. Very durable, great fit, not too bulky. I like the material its made out of. Will recommend to others.
5	1377734400	This is a great product, especially for computer gamers. It provides a wider range of mouse play without having to move the mouse as much, and you can adjust the settings. It is perfect for gaming.
5	1377561600	Previously I had a terrible mouse, very heavy and bad quality overall but after getting this mouse I feel like my precision has improved, I have two extra thumb buttons which help immensely in complex games and I can say that I would highly recomend this mouse to whoever is looking for a gaming mouse and is on a budget.
4	1377561600	I wanted to see what all the hoopla was with a so called gaming mouse. I play online puter games like Tribes2 and others at times and currently use a wireless Logitec mx510 for everything. Its not made for beating up and has become flakey. So after much research and the you tube top rated reviews I first tried out the Anker 8000 DPI, it was bulky and uncomfortable and away it went back to the farm. According to all the input Razer Deathadder is one of the best out there. After using Logitec for so many years I found this mouse with a lower profile and nice black finish but a little light in weight. So at the end of the day its an average mouse made in china and overpriced like the rest ;). What makes it so great and a so called Gaming mouse? most likely the name and marketing nothing more and probably worth 20 bucks out the door. I could probably try all other mice and would probably come up with the same conclusion. the one thing I do like about this mouse compared to the others it's simple, the others had to much crap you will never need.
5	1377475200	I got this for my boyfriend so that he could use it for WOW. he says that he is forever in my debt. He says its super sensitive and smooth
5	1377475200	you know i wanna this mouse for a long time  finally i got it and this is a fantastic.amazing when you handle it ,love razer,love this product
5	1377475200	Don't get distracted by all the flashy mouses out there with all kinds of buttons and effects, the deathadder is the best.What I like about it is that it is a simple, responsive, and big mouse. Unlike most mouses I've owned this one has a wide area to grip, most mouses force claw grip because their surface area is far too small to really get a hold of, which is even worse if you have large hands.One thing I tended not to like about razer mice was they're usually overly flashy or have all kinds of gimmicks, like "has so many buttons" or "doubles as a cell phone" or whatever. This one is simple. It is a 5-button standard issue mouse, but still has high level precision like any other razer mouse for a much cheaper price. No paying $90 for bells and whistles which only get in the way.Which leads me to say, damn is it responsive and fast, it's great for gaming just as they advertise. That's not just a catchphrase, it actually is a gaming mouse.There are a series of other small things which are nice about it. Tough, braided, long cord, a nice glow to it, good on most surfaces. It's just a good mouseI had a deathadder since 2010, but I do know of one problem with it, which seems unavoidable on any mouse tbh. The scroll part does tend to come loose, and when it gets too bad, it sometimes will flash back and forth between two positions. Keep in mind it was 2-3 years before I experienced this to any noticeable extent and I use a computer fairly regularly (develop software and play games), so it's still not a low quality build.All in all, great mouse, would highly recommend.
5	1377388800	This mouse is amazing, I highly recommend it for all gamers, it fits to your hand perfectly it is incredible!
4	1377388800	I think the buttons could all have easier more tactile responses, but overall exceeds expectations. In combination with the vespula gaming mouse mat, this is a match made in heaven. After finally receiving a mouse with programmable keys, I didn't realize I wasn't using them for the longest time. I do wish it had more programmable keys for the same price. 2 year man. warranty is great addition.
4	1377388800	I bought this mouse as a gift for my hardcore gamer boyfriend. He has been wanting it since it first came it. The packaging is nice and he says it is top of the line in performance. It is a large enough size to suit big hands and has a durable long cord for use on a desktop or on a laptop.I first encountered a problem with shipping through UPS. They &#34;delivered&#34; the package but it did not come. Amazon sent me a second one for free since I did not have the first one. I am pleased with the service through Amazon.
5	1377302400	Than using the old model, the new model wears two years passed before. Refurbished items super and more. Mr green hologram, a different kind of product. It really made &#8203;&#8203;of extremely high quality workmanship and dizany.Thanks razer ...
4	1377216000	Buttons don't click loud enough, when you're wearing headphones you can hardly feel the click, much less hear them.  So it's hard to tell if you're actually clicking or if the buttons are stuck.  Don't drop your mouse, it could mess up the springs on the buttons.
4	1377216000	This product is one of the few mice, let alone gaming mice, that is designed for left-handed users. This mouse is a great buy for any left-handed gamer that wants a quality product that won't crap out on you in a month. I've been using this mouse for about 6 months and have so far been satisfied with my experience; however, this mouse is not perfect.Pros1. specifically designed for lefties and the level of comfort is reflected in that.2. The texture on the top of the mouse helps prevent slipping and the sweaty palm syndrome.3. Big enough for larger hands such as mine.4. Durable and high quality for above average use. It has withstood several hours of League of Legends and Starcraft 2.Cons1. The software that comes with the mouse is not convenient and tends to not work on some programs but will work fine with others.2. The default driver setting for the main mouse buttons is for left-handed mode. This may be a pro for some that learned with the buttons in the left-handed orientation, but for someone who uses the right-handed orientation for the buttons, it was easier to switch the buttons back in the windows setting.3. Some found the pulsating light on the back to be irritating at night since they could not turn the light off with the razer software. I actually like it and do not find it too bright at all; however this is my personal opinion.4. The sides of the mouse have a glossy finish that shows dust and fingerprints a little but it's not that noticeable because there's so little of it on the mouse.
4	1377043200	i think this will be the best FPS gaming mouse, because it had  rubber grip two side of the mouse. It still  move easily when your hand sweating and it also has a quick grenade button.
1	1376956800	ive only used this for 3 months and i know certain game require massive amount of left clicking but this is a game mouse right?been a razor fan but really disappointed at this one.
3	1376956800	Pros:- Ergonomic shape- Responsive buttons- I really like the braided cord, compared to my last mouse (Logitech G500)- Relatively customizable settings in Synapse 2.0- Good overall performanceCons:- Had trouble registering an account to use Synapse 2.0; disliked the fact it was mandatory to make an account and be online upon first use.  Granted, you can put Synapse in offline mode.- While scrolling up, it makes a much louder &#34;clicking&#34; noise compared to scrolling down, as if the left/right click buttons are vibrating slightly while scrolling; this is particularly worrisome after reading a some reviews/comments regarding problematic scroll wheelsFinal Thoughts:Bought this to replace my Logitech G500 which was beginning to have issues.  It's a pretty light mouse, maybe even lighter than my G500 with no weights in it.  It is also pretty big, although I wish it was a little bigger as I have fairly large hands.  Performance wise, it does well, no problems there.  After dealing the the Razer account registration problem, I was more or less satisfied with this product.  Unfortunately, the scroll wheel issue, while seemingly minor, began to become more of an annoyance than I had initially felt.  If it weren't for these two issues, I'd definitely give it at least 4 stars.
4	1376870400	This is a great basic gaming mouse.  Its ergonomic and feels good in the hand.  I like the rubber grips on the side to help keep the mouse from slipping.  Only gripe is the side buttons seem to be a little off unless you hold your mouse a bit more forward.  After awhile you get used to it though.  All in all im pleased as I am with all razer products and would buy again.
5	1376784000	I use it because the shape of it takes out some of the &#34;claw&#34; positioning I have with other mice... meaning my hand sits much better on it which in turn bothers my wrist way less... it is a great mouse...
5	1376784000	This mouse has been reliable, responsive, and consistent. The left handed oriented design is perfect and allows for a good grip even with the relatively small hands I have. The adjustable DPI is perfect for allowing me to keep the same sensitivity between different FPS.The only con I will mention is that some games will detect your mouse as a &#34;left handed mouse&#34; and so even if you reverse the left and right buttons in windows, you'll have to rebind them in some games. Some games, like Far Cry 3, will make it so that for certain quick event and special sequences the mouse buttons are reset to &#34;default&#34; no matter how you bind them, but that's not a huge issue. The advantages of having a &#34;designed for lefties&#34; mouse far outweigh the minor, usually correctable, inconveniences.
5	1376784000	Honestly, the DeathAdder is the first, and currently only gaming mouse I've ever gotten. It's quite simple for a gaming mouse, with only two extra buttons on the side, but it has exceptional grip and a wonderful feel to it.Highly recommended.
5	1376784000	Love everything about this. Can't really say much more than that. Excellent build, feels great to use.Control over the scroll wheel is excellent, the side buttons are placed well, and the side grips have a nice feel to it.Razer Synpase 2.0 software offers a whole lot of value to the mouse as well.
5	1376697600	And he's a nearly pro gamer. Must be good stuff. Better be for the price! Not so sure about the name though.....
5	1376611200	Needed to upgrade my mouse for ages and finally did. Great gaming mouse (quake) and great feel. Works perfectly with the hayate mousepad.
4	1376611200	I purchased the Deathadder 2013 for $60 on Newegg, more or less the day it came out.There's a reason this mouse is the standard in FPS gaming. It has solid build quality, great software and its sensor lives up to all of Razer's hype -- even if you'd have to be crazy to actually set it to 6400 DPI, the precision is there. I've been using Razer products since I bought a Razer Diamondback as my very first gaming mouse, and the build quality on this is the best yet. Everything is solidly put together and the materials used are quite nice -- not as nice as those on Logitech's new -s series, but the rubberized coating is comfortable and the rubber sides are nicely grippy.The sensor is flawless, and it's the most precise sensor you'll find on a mouse that isn't a laser mouse (which themselves come with a whole slew of problems like inconsistent positive/negative acceleration, skipping, malfunction speeds that vary wildly by surface and z-axis issues depending on just what laser sensor you have).The software is top-notch, and if you're not a tinfoil hatter who refuses to activate anything online you'll have no problems with it. It's a slight hassle to make an account you may never use, but I found myself using other Razer software (such as Gamebooster and Surround) so in the end it wasn't an issue. It includes quite powerful macro commands and excellent DPI customization, and even lets you calibrate the sensor to your specific mousepad or the pre-set Razer mousepads as well as choosing your own lift-off distance. Sadly, all of these nice software features are hampered by the mouse's lack of built-in memory. Even though your settings are stored in Razer's cloud, the mouse will NOT be plug-and-play with your desired settings and in my mind that's not acceptable for a mouse at this price point -- knocking a star off an otherwise five-star mouse. Razer has touted the lack of memory as a cost-saving feature, but as the new Deathadder is the most expensive yet they seem to have absorbed all the benefits of that lower cost.The greatest complaint I have with it (and the only reason it's not my mouse of choice) is personal: it just doesn't fit my hand as well as it could. The great strength of the Deathadder's shape is its versatility -- it can be handled with roughly any type of grip, and done so by almost any hand size. However, that is also its greatest weakness: in my (very much personal) opinion, the mouse's back is too low for a comfortable claw grip, the sides too straight for a secure fingertip grip and the overall shape not contoured enough for a great ergonomic palm grip. That's not to say it's UNcomfortable in the slightest -- merely that it's fairly comfortable any way it's handled, but if you're up to exploring other options (at a store that will let you handle a variety of mice) you can probably find a mouse that personally fits you better.
2	1376611200	The mouse came with a VERY light right click. This mouse is more for palm grip type hands and while resting my hand on it, it was impossible to not right click by accident. I ended up returning it.
5	1376524800	I bought it 3 months ago and it still works perfectly. Some people say it broke or doesn't after 2 months but mine is still healty. I think it depends on how you use. I play dota 2 and I spend 8-12 hours in a day on computer. You can buy this mouse without a doubt.
4	1376524800	I had a Naga, it broke.  Saw the new Taipan, hated it.  Button placement was horrible.  The Deathadder has a great feel to it.  Nice side buttons, great performance.  I paired this with the Anansi keyboard (poor reviews for some reason), and I don't even miss all of the buttons on my old Naga.I take one star away because of the green led and not being able to change the color like the keyboard.  Why is Razer going to nothing but green??  Not my color, but not a deal breaker.  This would be a solid 5 star if there was a choice of colors or the ability to change colors.  The Naga Epic offered....horrible mouse, but loved the color change ability.
5	1376438400	This thing is awesome and goes far beyond What I had expected and special thanks to amazon and razer for mailing all these wonderful products
5	1376352000	Feels awesome in my hands! It's very responsive, ergonomic, stylish, and just plain sick. I'm not a fan of mice with too many buttons. I just can't get used to them. This mouse is also slightly bigger than your average mouse which I love.
5	1376352000	I am a hardcore gamer and I have had this mouse since march. It has been as reliable as most of the Razer Mouses I have owned. Not only do I love the way it grips to your hand as its moving. Its very fast and responsive. A must buy for all type of gamers out there. Loved it.
5	1376265600	After trying several different mice, this was hands down the best. It's comfy, quick, responsive, and accurate. Above all, it makes it easy to achieve that untouchable feeling in a game (whereas with other mice you have to cock your hand funny to feel super accurate).
5	1376265600	This mouse is wonderful for all right handed users. It feels great and the button presses have a great sound and feel.The S2.0 program is great too. It really helps out when gaming and browsing the internet.The only bad thing is the light from the Razer logo. It heats up my hand which isn't good but it can be turned off so, there's no problem.
5	1376265600	I had never owned a &#34;gaming&#34; mouse before purchasing the DeathAdder 2013. I love this thing. It performs better than I expected.
5	1376092800	This mouse is very very good quality. Razer obviously pays attention to detail. Everything from the buttons to the grips on the side to the way it feels in your hand. It's a very good mouse, especially for gaming. It's just an all around great product.
3	1376092800	I just don't have any luck with mice anymore. This is the 2nd Deathadder I have had. It is jumpy as hell, hard to control at times. I have tried decreasing the settings but it just doesn't appear to have a steady motion. The cursor is always jumpy and when you get to the button or whatever I am trying to click on it jumps right past it... or near it but rarely on it. I like the shape, it fits my palm but its motion is off. I think I need to just get a plain-jane wheel mouse and not another &#34;gaming&#34; mouse!
4	1376092800	I was gifted the left-handed edition of this mouse 6 months ago.  I have to say it's nice to finally have a mouse that's contoured to fit my hand.  It's handled all the games I play and I haven't noticed any lag with it.  The precision, even at the lower DPI settings, is impressive.  The left and right buttons are mapped in reverse so you don't have to go mucking about in game settings to make it left-handed.With the Razer Synapse software, you can set different profiles for the buttons.  This allows you to change the way they're mapped when playing different games.  It also lets you shut the LEDs off.  All in all, this is a great mouse for the left-handed gamer.Now I didn't give it 5 stars because there are some minor issues I have.  The 4th and 5th buttons located on the side are in a bit of an awkward position and easy to accidentally click.  The Razer Synapse software is a bit large in my opinion for a mouse.  Also, it seems to want to update with great frequency.  When you're bandwidth is on the lower end of the spectrum, it can be annoying.I've very happy with it though and it's great to see my right-handed friends struggle when they use my computer.  (just kidding)
5	1376006400	Bought this corded mouse (Razer brand to boot) for the purpose of League of Legends (LoL) gaming as my wireless one kept requiring batter change way too often for my liking.  Loved the ergonomics of the mouse and the sensitivity, which works great for any PC game that uses the mouse as the primary tool.  Comes with Razer brand stickers as well.  I would recommend this mouse for gamers anywhere.  Although you can get by with any other mouse, remember that with wireless ones, you'll have to keep replacing the batteries often.  Cheaper corded mouses are a hit-or-miss.  You'll definitely want to invest some money for a good quality mouse if you're a hardcore gamer, otherwise just get a regular corded mouse if you're a casual gamer.
1	1376006400	I really don't know how to rate this. I love razer products, they have great designs, but they really need to rework some of their internals.After only about 40 days, my mouse died in game. It's such a shame because it's such a well designed feel and fit. I just ordered a new one, and if this one fails too, I'm going to have to say that I'm steering clear of all future Razer purchases.
4	1375920000	I love this mouse, all around excellent so far!  But I just got it, so I'm hesitant to give 5 stars.  So far it's smoothe, responsive, pretty, and the lights are unobtrusive and stylish.  I love how it feels.  The texture of the mouse, the wrapped cord, and the low drag across my desk all speak of a good build quality, and it feels sturdy in my hand.  All around worthy of a potential 5 star review if I still have it in a year.The only downside is that it feels a little big in my hands.  I've had a lot of mice in my day, and I buy large mice, but this actually feels large to me!  I've no doubt I'll adjust nicely over the next week or two, and love it immensely.  Highly recommended on first impressions!
5	1375920000	very comfortable fits in the hand. unless u have a smaller hand i would go with another of their product. it is also very light and the high dpi makes it very accurate.
1	1375833600	Razer DeathAdder 2013 mouse died after one month of use.  Drops USB connection to the computer.  Went back to my Black Edition DeathAdder.
1	1375833600	The right mouse button does not work.  They don't make things like they used to.I will try to see if the manufacturer will replace it.  Wish me luck.
2	1375660800	other than the page up/down functionality being on the right hand side by the thumb...This mouse is simply nothing special. It is a generic ergonomic design.  I went with this because it was Alienware &#34;approved&#34;/compatible GAMING mouse - or advertised as such. Being a gamer and graphic artist, I do not see &#34;it&#34;. No extra functionality, no special manufacturing design, not game programmable. Over-priced, over-rated,  BUT it is a mouse than Left Handers can use.
5	1375660800	mouse accurate mouse i've ever used (and I've used them all going back to the intelli 3.0 x08 models). very comfortable, having no issues with synapse 2.0, it's actually quite nice having all my settings saved to the cloud, has been useful when i format the pc. huge improvement over the 3.5g DA in every possible way, the tracking is entirely different / better. one issue is it doesn't work flawlessly with the QCK+ pad for me, if you want to maximize the potential of this thing you really need a puretrak talent mouse pad. however when you combine the two, nothing comes close. tracking is effortless with 1100 dpi (sensitivity is 11.7inches to do a full 360). i've got a few months experience with this thing and no signs of it breaking, seems a solid buy all around
5	1375660800	ergonomically is pretty good so it help to play better i really like it and recomended for anyone who like playing games great mouse
4	1375574400	Physically, it is a nice mouse. There are plenty of people that have reviewed the ergonomics and feel. The part that bothers me is that you need to have Razer's Synapse software running all the time if you want to disable the pulsating light underneath the logo. Open it up, save the settings, exit the app.. the light turns back on. That is absurd. It is the only reason for me that Synapse is running and wasting space in my systray, and killing 40-50 meg of ram for no apparent reason.I still gave it a decent rating because I'm sure this wont be an issue for most people, but I find the pulsating to be distracting. I knew I could turn it off, but I did not know that unnecessary software would have to stay running 24/7 to keep that setting.Probably the last Razer device I buy, just on principle. They probably put effort into coding that in.
5	1375488000	im in love with this mouse and it feels so good when i play COD or Lol great mouse by razer
5	1375488000	He uses it to play League of Legends and says it helps his game and he has less &#34;lag&#34;.  Feels good to handle
4	1375401600	Feet are nice and slick, the coating on the back of the mouse is nice too. As to performance, its movement is responsive and the buttons feel great, everything you expect from Razer. My only gripes would be that it does sweat my hand a little, and doesn't really provide anywhere to put your ring finger or pinky. Great first gaming mouse or for the gamer on a budget.
5	1375315200	I have been a PC gamer at heart for many many years, too many to even count, but I never really bought into the whole gaming mouse trend. I have had a gaming computer, headset, and keyboard, but always went with a cheap mouse from various brands which seemed to get the job done for a cheap price. I had no idea what I was missing out on however! Having just purchased this mouse recently I have not had it for an extended period of time, but for the few days I have had it I have fallen in love! The feel of the mouse is just incredible and it fits my hand perfectly!( A lot more than any of my past mice ever have). There is a noticeable difference in precision with the Razer DeathAdder 2013 Edition and all I can say is that this was a worthy investment in my honest opinion. Well done Razer, well done.
1	1375315200	Purchased this mouse June 2011. It comes with a two year warranty.July 2013 (two years and 1 month later) the mouse now randomly double left clicks when trying to click once which makes some games completely unplayable.It's unfortunate since it's just out of warranty but between this mouse and a bad experience with a Razer BlackWidow keyboard suddenly not being recognized by Windows a few months after warranty expired, I have sworn to never again by a Razer product.
4	1375315200	The razer deathadder 2013 model is a very good gaming mouse. The ergonomic features this mouse has makes it one of the top mouses in the gaming mouse products. I bought this mouse along with the razer goliathus mouse pad which works really well together. I really like the buttons on this mouse, the buttons and clicks are effortless and also customisable through the razer synapse 2.0 client. I play games like league of legends, dota 2, runescape, minecraft, and some MMMORPGs. The two side buttons on the mouse help me in the games such as league of legends where I can make one of the side buttons to the "laugh" taunt or even "R" to use my ultimate. I can also assign it to be a push to talk button for skype or teamspeak 3 which is very handy.All in all, this mouse is a very good gaming mouse. This is my first gaming mouse to buy and I am satisfied making the purchase.
1	1375315200	This is my review of the Razer DeathAdder 2013. First off, the software was nice. I don't know about anyone else but I kind of liked it. The feel was good. But, after about a month and a half the mouse started to lose traction. As in it would not register if I was moving or not, it would just sit there. After constant annoyance I went to Amazon to return it but I could not because my 30 days were up. So I tried to live with it but after a while I got so sick of it that I removed the feet at the bottom of the mouse and changed the lift off in the Razer software. I finally worked! But then after about a two months it started to do it again! But this time it wasn't just that. My right and left click would either double click or not register at all. Today, while playing Battlefield 3 it just stopped working altogether. Lights turned off and everything, tried plugging back in three times with restarts in-between. Shame because I figured that all of the problems that were present with the old DeathAdder would go away with this new one. It was a beautiful mouse and had very good grip. The wire was nice and the LED scroll wheel was great. Too bad that I experienced this because now I am not going to ever buy anything from Razer again. If you are going to spend more than $40-50 on a mouse it should be of good quality.
1	1375228800	I finally decided to get a better mouse and this one was a pretty big luxury on my fixed income. It's a great mouse when it works, but mine continually disconnects itself. The best side is if it reconnects and stays reconnected, then it only interrupts what I am in the middle of. More often than not, it stays disconnected or repeatedly connects and drops.Now, here is the beware part! If you purchase this mouse from anyone but an authorized dealer, and you must prove it, the manufacturer will not honor the warranty. For me, that was money I should have left in the grocery budget. From now on, I'll stay with the ten dollar mice. They last longer, a lot longer, than the six semi-functional weeks I got from this thing. That is over ten dollars a week, twenty years worth of ten dollar mice.
5	1375142400	Really neat mouse. Totally worth it. I had the Black version of it, and got this new version for another PC. This is greater than the black edition because of it's grips, which feels very different to handling.
5	1374883200	From aesthetics to functionality to ergonomics this mouse is top of the line. Can't go wrong here. I'm hard-pressed to discover a flaw to speak on.
1	1374796800	I've had an old Microsoft mouse for about the past 8 years or so. It's an ambidextrous mouse, but I don't know the specific model.In that time, my Microsoft mouse has worked great. However, I decided that I wanted a mouse with adjustable DPI and perhaps one that looked/felt a little nicer, as well.Yesterday, I drove up to my local Best Buy and picked up a DA 2013. I got them to price match it to Amazon, too. Excited, I drove home and could hardly wait to get it out of the package and kick off the first night of my summer break with some awesome gaming.My excitement was quickly ended when I made the first of two disappointing discoveries. Upon plugging the mouse in and downloading/running Synapse, I found that internet was required in order to access Synapse, and thus, any mouse settings whatsoever.Without getting into why I think that's completely asinine, absurd, ludicrous, and downright wrong, I'll just say that I was extremely put off by this choice that Razer has made.However, what really made me decide to return the mouse was the fact that I could not comfortably rest my middle finger on the right mouse button without accidentally depressing it.I'm in the physical therapy field, but you don't have to be in order to understand how this would be uncomfortable for any length of time. Having to keep those extensor muscles engaged is not only a mental distractor, but a physical one as well.There is a natural phenomenon called tenodesis grasp which is something that is very important to some people with spinal cord injuries who no longer have control over their fingers (but who can still control their wrist). However, it's something that everyone can perform, injury or not. Try this: hold you hand straight out in front of you, palm down. Try to completely relax your hand/fingers and then slowly bend your wrist so that the palm of your hand becomes perpendicular with the ground. Notice how your fingers close a bit? That's tenodesis grasp.When using a mouse, your wrist is usually going to be in at least some degree of extension, which further strengthens tenodesis grasp. This, combined with the weight of my finger, is more than enough to overcome the small amount of resistance that the right mouse button offers. Also, I think that part of the problem may stem from the fact that the top of the mouse is one piece of thin plastic, so weight applied closer to the palm of the hand is transferred to the mouse buttons, as well.Anyways, I didn't mean to write a book here, but I'm just severely disappointed in a product which costs a fair amount of money. For 60-70 bucks, I expect that the mouse will function very well, and look/feel nice, too. It seems Razer has their priorities backwards. The mouse looks and feels nice, but it doesn't function well.Also, I'm aware that I could contact Razer and ask for a RMA, but it's my understanding that this is a rather widespread issue. I'd rather not play "get the mouse without the problem" with Razer.To that end, I am returning the DA 2013 and looking for another mouse. I've already ordered a Zowie EC1-eVo which should arrive this Wednesday. However, I've also played around with the idea of simply replacing the switches on the DA 2013. I know how to solder, I just don't know anything about the switches themselves (which ones to buy, where to buy from ,etc.). I need to do some research. But if worse comes to worse, that may be what I end up doing. I can look past the issues with Synapse if I can have a mouse which feels and functions well. Like they say, if you want something done right, do it yourself.It's for these reasons that I've decided to give the Razer DeathAdder 2013 one out of five stars. I cannot in good conscious give any higher rating than that, because the mouse doesn't fulfill its most basic of objectives. If Razer were to fix the switches on their mouse, I would give it two or perhaps three out of five stars. If Razer were to fix the switches and also change their Synapse software so that it doesn't require internet access, I would consider giving it four or five stars. As it stands, the best I can do is one.
4	1374796800	I have accumulated several gaming mice in search of one that I can live with long-term (Steel Series Sensa, Logitech G9x, Logitech G700). Ergonomically speaking, this mouse is as good as it gets. I am what they refer to as a palm grip, so the high arch really allows me to relax my hand and the rubber traction grips on the side of the mouse make it easy to hold on to. My one critique from a design standpoint, is that the feet on the bottom are tiny...this means that the mouse does not seem to glide across my mousepad (RatPadz) as smoothly as some of the other ones I have used. From a durability standpoint, this mouse feels substantial in-hand and so far, it appears Razer has finally solved the squeeky mouse-wheel issue they have had in past models. So why the 3 star rating...Razer Synapse 2.0. The software is horrendous. I'm running Windows 7 Ultimate 64bit (Service Pack 1 Build 7601), and the Synapse software constantly freezes and locks up. After a reboot, I literally have to kill the app and restart it. In-game, the mouse will work great for a while and then I will know the software crashed when my mouse pointer either locks up, disappears, or the tracking slows way down. I have set the software to run as admin when it loads and tried running it in compatibility mode for windows 7, among other attempts to resolve the issue. So far, no dice. I wish Razer would offer a synch-free version of the mouse software as I suspect this is what causing all the issues. In looking at other reviews, it doesn't appear that everyone is experiencing the same issue, so it may just be my particular configuration or the mouse itself could be defective, though I doubt that. Until the software issues get resolved, I can't in good conscience give this mouse better than an average score, though your results may vary.Update 8/17/13After playing around some more, I've found that Windows UAC was causing the problems with Synapse. I still think the settings should be on-board rather than in the cloud because it adds absolutely no value being able to cloud-synch your mouse settings. I am adjusting my rating up to 4/5 stars. I still wish the feet on the bottom were bigger.
3	1374710400	was a good mouse till the right mouse button stopped working right , now its pretty much not usuable.  cost 60 bucks too.  ugh.
4	1374624000	Great improvement from a regular mouse. Ergonomic grip is great, but took me a little while to get used to. Only problem is that the scroll wheel will start to squeak. Online people say all you have to do is open it up and add some wd40 or some kind of lubricant, but im a little hesitant to opening it up. Not a big deal though
5	1374537600	I have had multiple gaming mice but keep coming back to the Death Adder. The feel and construction is excellent. I would highly recommend this to any gamer.
5	1374537600	excellent product.  very responsive to movement probably the best mouse I've ever purchased.  wish you could choose the color of the mouse
4	1374451200	The only complaints I can think of is the lack of the 2 mouse sensitivity buttons behind the mouse wheel, I got used to having those on my old Razer mouse. Also, I couldn't find a way to get the lights on the mouse to shut off when I turn my computer off without shutting the lights off entirely, the green lights lit up my bedroom at night and became quite annoying. The option is there to turn mouse lights off when the monitors go off, but it did not seem to work.Other than that, this is a great mouse and exactly what I was looking for.
5	1374451200	I love the fact that this can be calibrated to meet the various speeds I need. This works so well I might just get another kind for gaming. Product came in very secure. Great job.
4	1374364800	I own a Razer Krait and Razer Abyssus before this one. Krait's click and scroll wheel died within a year. Abyssus scroll wheel went slightly wonky as well. But this mouse has been great so far. It definitely have better ergonomics than the other 2 mouses above. At first I was skeptical about the large size of the mouse (since I have very small hand) but it turned out to be very comfortable. The 2 customizable side buttons had speed up my workflow as well. I just hope the scroll wheel won't wear out so soon.On the down side, Razer Synapse 2.0 software works terribly on my mac. I have to force close the app everytime I resume my mac from sleep and import my settings in order to use the high dpi modes. Otherwise it will be stuck at 180dpi. Quite annoying which is why I gave it 4 stars. Hope Razer fixes that soon.
4	1374364800	Well when i bought this mouse it was a great mouse BUT 1 week later i was going to play a game with my friends and it would not turn on i kept on trying to fix it but it was just gone:(. But if it worked i would give it a 5.
5	1374364800	This is a great mouse for any gamer but casual users will also appreciate its ergonomic design if they spend long hours in front of a computer.
5	1374105600	I like this mouse a lot and I hope Razer continues to manufacture or has enough stock of this so that I can keep replacing the ones I break. After using this mouse, I cant go back to ambidextrous designs. I have had Razer diamondback 3g which lasted me for 3 years after which I sold it and last I heard it continues to work perfectly. I hope the durability has been passed on to this mouse as well.The design could have been improved by reducing the size of the side buttons so that the thumb doesnt have to travel much between them. I also wish they had swapped the numbering of those buttons.
5	1374105600	I have used a Death adder before and it was good for gaming especially if you have the right grip! However that got somewhat sticky as the skin started to peel. When I got the new 2013 version, the first thing I noticed is the cover is somewhat matte now and so expect it not to peel. The added speed helped too! I love this mouse!
4	1374019200	This mouse is nice.  The biggest complaint about the mouse is the icon on its back that glows green. This glows even without the computer being on. Might be distracting if your mouse is in your bedroom.
5	1374019200	Perfec| mouse i ever use : fas|, easy |o cus|om, lo|s perfec| |hing :P good job Razer, make more and more |hing like |ha|
5	1374019200	It's just amazing. The build quality is very high and the feel of the device is exceptional. Installation was a breeze and the software is well done and very detailed. This is my go-to-mouse brand now.
5	1373932800	this mouse is awesome. It's got all the buttons I need and none of the ones I don't. it's streamline and responsive.
3	1373932800	It is a common issue with this mouse, it seems. Just a warning to others looking to buy this - be aware that it can suddenly stop working for literally no reason whatsoever. There are plenty of other reviews/complaints just like this one online, elsewhere. Great mouse, just faulty. Will have to return after many attempts to fix.
5	1373932800	Mouse fits perfectly in my hand, it is accurate, feels more accurate than my previous Logitech G5 to summarize, best mouse I've ever had so far. Only concern is how long this mouse will last, buttons seem quite fragile.I'd recommend this to everyone who needs good gaming mouse.
1	1373932800	I had a $20 mouse that was still working perfectly after 6 years of use, but when I installed Windows 7 I couldn't find drivers that would get it to work properly with the new OS. So I "upgrade" and purchase a mouse that costs 3 times more. It only lasted 3 years. This time I tried a different brand in the same price bracket, a Razer Adder 2013. After less than 4 months of use it now doubleclicks almost every time I single click the left mouse button. After searching online it turns out this is a very common defect for this mouse. Many people have taken their Razer's apart and fiddled with them in various ways to get another day to 2 weeks more use out of them before require more fiddling. I'm not going to bother, and I'm not going to wait 2 weeks for a replacement, especially when I have to pay shipping on the defective unit and in return get a refurbished product that from other reports will likely have this same issue in 3-6 months, and almost certainly within 12. It's a low quality product with a high quality price tag.Did I mention the whole weirdness of it requiring a login and internet connection so that it can store my settings on the cloud? That nonsense should be an opt in feature. Seriously, how many people use the same mouse on multiple computers? I won't be purchasing another Razer product.
2	1373846400	Finally, a left-handed gaming mouse!  Ergonomically, it fits the left hand like a glove, and by default, the left and right mouse click buttons are switched.  The mouse cord itself is braided which is really cool.Right out of the box, the software to program the buttons and change the mouse sensitivity doesn't work.  Upon starting the application, I'm prompted to "Plug in a Razer device"- but the mouse is already plugged in!  I've plugged/unplugged the mouse, restarted the application, etc. but still no luck.  Not happy with the software at all.  I might be able to configure it using the Windows Control Panel, but I haven't toyed with that yet.There are no installation CDs, so the drivers/software has to be downloaded from Razer's website.  Not a big deal, but what I don't understand is that Razer has its Razer Synapse "Cloud-based configurator" software that you have to log into and leave running as a background process in order to configure the mouse (which I can't even do because of the above-mentioned issues).  Why do I need to create an account and log in just to configure my mouse?  And why would I even want or need to save my mouse settings, of all things, to the cloud?  Completely invasive if you ask me...  Admittedly, it seems you can configure your mouse settings "offline", but since the application isn't working properly, I haven't been able to test the offline mode.I've written Razer Support, so we'll see if they even bother writing back.I give the product 2/5 stars until the software issue is resolved.  Unless the software is working, I'm having to paying for an incomplete, broken product.  The mouse as a standalone product, I would rate 5 stars.UPDATE 8/2/13: Contacted Razer support.  They suggested I had a faulty Synapse 2.0 installer.  Followed their directions, uninstalled the software, re-downloaded the installer from their website, and reinstalled using Run as Administrator.  Also temporarily disabled Windows Firewall to make sure Synapse wasn't being blocked.  Still no go with the Synapse software :(  Funny, the Synapse 2.0 YouTube video page has tons of people complaining about the software.
4	1373673600	It clicks and it scrolls. Its confortable. It has lights. the wiring is very nice. 2 Progammable buttons help. its a mouse nothing amazing about this one
5	1373673600	Had rat 7 it broke a year later and for $60 thats not a long time. Razer never fails and so far so good will update if I remember to but this mouse feels and plays fantastic would recommend to any gamer.
1	1373587200	After less than 5 months of owning the mouse, I begin getting constant disconnects and now the mouse does not work at all. Reading around, this happens A LOT. The quality they put into their products is not the same as it once was.More over, the Synapse "driver" software that comes with the device is practically spyware. It runs constantly in the background sending packets of information over the internet. On slower pc's you will actually notice a DROP in FPS because of this program.You were warned.
2	1373587200	i purchased this item as a new item and when i see the mouse there were already some dirt and dust on the mouse and i already notice two scratches when i remove the plastic that cover the gloss of the mouse but it work and also it's really terrible go against your better judgement to change the settings on the mouse you must register with razer and download their mediocre software which is a real bother i plan to keep this updated for those that are still curious about the well being of this product
5	1373587200	It's a fantastic mouse. The grip on the sides is phenomenal for uptight FPS gaming to really let you get stuck in and destroy your team. The two buttons on the side are great for keybinding to weapon switch or grenade and if you want to turn the scroll wheel light and the palm light off you can if you download Razer Synapse onto your computer. Really good mouse 10/10 would buy again.
5	1373500800	I switched to the DeathAdder a couple of years ago, primarily because I have large hands and the eronomics of this mouse are top notch. That being said, my old DeathAdder finally clicked its last click (after a good couple years of extensive use both through gaming and design) so I figured I'd try the new DeathAdder 2013.First of all, it was the most price efficient mouse on the market through Amazon.com, and I couldn't be happier with it. The only thing that really bothered me on the first DeathAdder was the glossy sides. It was just obnoxious, and after a good gaming session or using the mouse for extended periods, it just got slippery and not fun to clean, though the mouse still performed superbly. With the 2013, That's been changed, as the entire mouse has a new, rougher rubberized texture, great for any type of grip.My only 'gripe' with this mouse, would be the inability to customize the green for the wheel and the razer logo (a nice orange or red would be nice) as you can only have the Razer Green, but aside from that this is an amazing mouse and I'm glad to have purchased it for such a steal.
5	1373241600	This mouse. My god. How I missed thee.I had the original Deathadder from 2007, which lasted me 5 years until an unfortunately ginger ale accident involving my cat and mouse.I then got the Naga, and after only two years it started crapping out. Double clicking and the mouse wheel click hardly responsive.So, I was SUPER excited when I saw they re-released the Deathadder for 2013.In short, this mouse is hands-down fantastic. Same ergonomic design, durable and super responsive.Only thing I'm not 100% sure I like yet is the very slight gritty texture of the surface.It's nice for grip, but feels a tad strange.But, that is completely over-lookable though if you're looking for an excellent gaming or everyday mouse with a few extra buttons.Give this baby a try, and you won't be disappointed.
1	1373155200	On the outward appearance, it look perfectly fine until I used it. It just stop scrolling. This mouse ended up in the trash.
5	1372896000	The mouse i order came exactly as they stated  it, it was in excellent condition and works like a charm.
4	1372896000	very good for its price and comfort ability, never had a gaming mouse before but I really do like this one.
3	1372809600	It was a decent mouse until the scroll-wheel started acting up after a month or two. Now it is almost unusable -- try browsing a webpage when 40% of the time, it scrolls in the opposite direction of the scroll-wheel motion.I tried to engage with their RMA people, but they were so unhelpful that I gave up. Will not buy a Razer product again.(Thanks for supporting Starcraft/e-sports, but maybe divert some of that money to product QA as well...)Edit-- restoring a star after their RMA dept contacted me and sent a replacement, which is working well so far. Good job guys.
3	1372809600	I purchased this (left-handed) mouse to use at work so I can switch hands to reduce strain. I specifically chose this mouse instead of an "ambidextrous" mouse because I wished to replicate the functionality of theLogitech Corded Mouse (M500)I was already using. Specifically, I wanted the thumb buttons and the hand-specific shape. I have used multiple other "pointing devices" and return to the M500. This is the only left-handed *traditional* mouse I could find, though there are other left-handed mice/pointing devices (VerticalMouse and the Goldtouch Ergonomic are the only left-hand specific, easily available ones I could find).I really, really appreciate that the DeathAdder is available in a left-hand version. I will note that it feels less like a truly left-handed mouse, than an "ambidextrous" mouse with the addition of two buttons on the right side. Aside from those buttons, the mouse is symmetrically shaped, as opposed to the thumb nest/curve becoming popular in right-handed mice. That's not a dealbreaker for me though - I wanted those extra buttons!The driver is reasonable. Windows 7 auto-detects the mouse, but to change/customize it's function, the driver from Razer is required. Once I downloaded that I was able to customize the function of each button. I set up the primary buttons so that "left-click" is performed by my index finger (meaning it's actually the right button), so the actions are the mirror of my right hand, and the same finger on each hand performs any given task (I also, through Windows, change the direction of the cursors to be left-hand friendly). The driver also allows turning off the blue lights on the palm rest and scroll wheel - which are a gamer thing, but feel less professional in my office.I have two major problems with it: the slope is much too steep. The highest point of the mouse is no higher than on my M500 (1.5" from the desk), but the slope from the rear is much steeper, and then the front end (with the buttons/scroll wheel) slopes away steeply right away, with barely any plateau. The buttons and scroll wheel feel much lower than the 'peak' of the mouse. This may be related to the "gamer" design, I'm not sure. Nevertheless, I find the slope uncomfortable because the relaxed position of my fingers is much flatter than the shape of the mouse requires, and I am concerned that I end up with a distinct bend in my wrist (badbadbad!).Aside from the shape, my primary issue is the size. My hand is just too small for this mouse. With my hand in a relaxed position, I can only reach the back thumb button. For reference, my hand is 7" from wrist crease to end of tallest finger, and 3-3/8" from wrist crease to the end of my thumb. That's slightly larger than average for a woman's hand, but small compared to the average man's hand.I have not decided if I'll keep using it - I have only had 12 work days with it, and only use it so far about 25% of the time (I lack the precision, as yet, for CAD work). For the price I paid for a slightly used one from Amazon Warehouse, I will not return it, and it may just be added into my pile of mostly unused mice/pointing devices. I will give this a try for a little while longer, but I expect to end up getting aEvoluent VerticalMouse 4 Left Hand (model # VM4L) - USB Wiredto try as well. Not my favourite in the right-hand version, but it has the programmable buttons I'm looking for.
4	1372723200	As stated above, it broke just after the amazon return would be eligible.  I had to spend four phone calls with razer before I was able to set up an rma.  Almost three weeks later, I get a replacement mouse with a faulty right click.  I'm extremely tired of products that cannot perform, especially when I'm paying a good amount for them.So after all was said and done, I got the second replacement, and all is fine for the time being.  The design is still nice, and function is great.  Provided this mouse lasts, it's a good purchase.-EDIT-The very next day, I contacted Razer about my issues, and I got a call a short time later explaining that they had already begun the shipping process of a replacement to me, and they included a free shipping label to return the current mouse.  I'm very surprised, as this hasn't happened for me from any customer support before, and I will be updating my review at a later time when I receive the fully functioning mouse.  I appreciate the help they've given me, maybe I've had bad luck so far.
5	1372723200	I know two people who also have this mouse which made me want to get it. I've had it for about a month or so now and have had no problems. Great build, great quality, and great performance. Egronomic, sleek, smooth, and aesthetically pleasing. Razer did a fine job.
5	1372723200	I love the Deathadder 2013 edition, ever since I used one of my friends that he had been using for ~4 months. I finally pulled the trigger and couldnt be happier with this mouse. The mouse fits perfectly in my palm. Its fantastic.
1	1372636800	In the first day it worked fine, in the second day it just &#34;died&#34;, I've read online many people facing the same issue &#34;unkown device&#34;, some people could fix it installing/restoring the firmware. I went to razer support website and then I couldn't find anything for Razer Deathadder 2013 there are no firmware/drivers available.I uninstalled synapse and tested in other computers, but it didn't work. I sent an email to razer support but noone has answered yet.I don't recommend this product to anyone.
5	1372550400	Great gaming mouse, high quality, especially the cord on this bad boy.This mouse fits perfectly in my hand, and I have yet to have any issues with it!
4	1372377600	I previously had one of those $20 Microsoft wireless mouses and was using it to do some light gaming. It broke down after a while so I thought it might be good to invest in a proper gaming mouse. Even though I'm not a major gamer, the differences between normal mouses (mice?) and the Deathadder is very noticeable. The Deathadder handles great on the wooden surface of my desk. I've had less pain in my wrist since using this mouse and I attribute that to the ergonomic design. I never thought it necessary, but the glowing symbol and mouse wheel is a nice touch. I felt the extra keys on the side were also unnecessary at first, but I've grown so accustomed to them that I find myself futilely tapping the sides of my work mouse.I've read complaints about the razer synapse cloud, but for my needs (gaming on my home computer), this never becomes an issue. The one complaint I do have is on the gripped sides of the Deathadder. It just doesn't &#34;feel&#34; right. I think a great mouse kind of melds with your hand and you hardly notice it. The gripped sides stop that from happening due to the weird texturing. I believe for some people (maybe most) it will not be a big deal, or they'll probably even like it.In the end, I think my decision to switch from a normal mouse to a gaming mouse was a good one. I never considered things like better tracking speed and extra keys, but now that I have mouse which includes them, I don't think I can go back to a normal mouse. I also like the fact that if I ever do become more serious with my gaming, the Deathadder has customizable DPI levels and other things I can tweak to improve my gaming experience.
3	1372291200	It's not really comfortable but it looks pretty.. Does the job.Pros:Looks nicePrice isn't too bad..Cons:Not ComfortableVery limited to binding.
4	1372204800	I used a razer naga from some time in 2011 up to now and I just decided to purchase a deathadder just because I'm starting to get into fps games such as CS:GO instead of mmo's. My naga's right click wasn't clicking down all the way, I checked if there was some dust or something under the left click preventing it from clicking all the way but there wasn't, the left click was basically broken so I purchased a deathadder. The mouse is great, I love it. The rubber feels comfortable and the mouse moves really smoothly. The left click is fine but the right click is kind of faint. I don't know if it's suppose to be like this but the left click works perfectly fine, the right click on the deathadder however, is kind of faint and feels used. The right click doesn't make as much sound as the left and feels just weaker than the left. Sorry for my horrible grammar -.- love the mouse but I'm not sure if the right click being significantly more silent than the left click is normal.
5	1372118400	I'm somewhat of an avid gamer and use the mouse for all sorts of games, but mostly first-person shooters. Precision is what I need and the Razer DeathAdder 2013 delivers.First of all, the physical design of the mouse is ergonomic and just makes sense. It feels extremely comfortable in my hand (I use a palm grip most of the time, but a claw grip would probably also work fine with this mouse). I can't help but stop every now and then just to look at it and admire the beauty of its shape (yes, I am serious, lol). The build quality feels solid; after a month of moderate to heavy use, I haven't had any issues with any of the main buttons, scroll wheel, or side buttons. The grips on the side are definitely a nice addition that improves on the design of the old DA.Customizability--this is key and the DA has tons of it, provided you download Razer Synapse 2.0, which I would highly recommend. There's been some speculation (yes, it's no more than speculation) that Synapse is spyware. I'm the kind of person who's wary of this kind of thing, and I'll just say that the whole "spyware" business was nothing but a gross overreaction by a bunch of paranoid nerds. Take a few seconds to download Synapse, because it's worth it. While the DA has plug-and-play capability, Synapse opens up so many more possibilities, allowing you to customize what each of the buttons does and even program long keyboard macros into a single click. There is a huge range of DPI in increments of 100 (I set mine to 400). It lets you customize mouse acceleration--this is important for gamers who can't stand mouse acceleration. Luckily, the DA's acceleration is set to 0 by default, but don't forget to download MarkC's mouse fix to get rid of Windows mouse acceleration. You can also turn off the mouse wheel/logo lights, but I like them so I just keep them on. :) Honestly, Synapse is a nice piece of software, so don't let unfounded paranoia scare you away from fully unleashing your mouse's capabilities.I don't think there's much else to say. The mouse fully met and then exceeded my expectations. 5/5; would recommend.
4	1372032000	After trying many different mice, I settled on the Razer Deathadder Black Edition (DA Black), which I use for work (I do not do gaming).  However, I needed an extra mouse for an additional workstation, and thought I would give the Deathadder 2013 (DA 2013) a try. The DA 2013 is extremely good, but I prefer the smoother surfaces of the DA Black. The main thing I did not like about the DA 2013 was the scroll wheel, which made a chattering sound when scrolling forward. The DA Black has a smoother and quieter scrolling action, while still providing some ratchet control.Based on the above preferences, I returned the DA 2013 and  bought another DA Black, which remains my favorite mouse. Both DAs are excellent with respect to shape, size, weight, click action of left, right, and center switches, and accuracy. Moreover, they both work well in my multi-OS environment (Linux, Mac, and Windows).While both the DA 2013 and DA Black are great products, I do not like the Synapse 2 software. The interface is difficult to read, and I do not like the "cloud" feature. For my needs at work, a simple driver would be more than sufficient.Overall, I would give 4 stars to the DA 2013 and 4.5 stars to the DA Black.
1	1371772800	this mouse is terrible it conveniently broke 1 month and 4 days after i bought it... can return it i have an 80$ paperweight thank you razor for the defective mouse i will never buy from you again... dont waste your money
5	1371686400	No complaints at all. This thing is a beast and I would recommend it to anyone in this price range.
5	1371686400	Very clean, simple mouse.  A little pricey, but it is one of the few razer mice that isn't covered in button.  Nice braided cord, nice comfortable palm grip.
5	1371600000	i play a lot of games, league of legends is just an example. this mouse reads every movement perfectly. i dont even need a mouse pad the sensor is so good. great mouse to but if you dont mind the decent price.
1	1371600000	I've loved Razer mice since the Copperhead. I've lost track of the Mice I've had, Mamba, Naga, DeathAdder - no complaints with any of them.So I got the 2013 DeathAdder because the one I have now is old and just nasty looking with the paint rubbed off to the clear plastic underneath...The first 2013 arrived with the 4th (thumb button) stuck on. The mouse would get detected but no buttons worked.So I got the replacement mouse - and it worked great for 2 weeks. Now it is no longer being detected; it's dead. No lights nothing. Tried 3 computers, no luck anywhere.This "2013" is going back to Amazon, and I guess I'm sticking with my old DeathAdder.
5	1371513600	I previously owned the original Death Adder, and the Logitech MX518. This is definitely the most comfortable mouse I have ever used. The whole mouse has an amazing texture that gives the mouse grip and control, as well as the rubber grips on the sides. It is much better than the infamous glossy plastic that gets oily and gross after long gaming sessions and make you start losing control of the mouse.
5	1371254400	I have bigger hands so small mouses wont fly with me. I made the mistake of buying the Razer Abyssus mouse over this one and instantly regretted it. I bought this one and WOW what a difference. The feel of it is great, it fits perfectly in your hand and the rubber grip is awesome too! You can always count on razer to make great products!
1	1371254400	Looking for a Left Hand specific mouse?  Well tough luck, the gaming mouse companies don't give a &^@$ about us lefties.  This mouse is an exact mirror of the right handed DeathAdder.  The mouse itself is mediocre.  It doesn't fit my hand well, the side buttons don't seem to be in the right position for easy pressing. On the plus side the razer software give you some nice options for putting key macros on buttons.But, the #1 BIGGEST problem with this mouse is a driver interrupt issue it RANDOMLY has once every 1-2 weeks.  The mouse cursor will freeze and go in slow motion while your computer emits an EXTREMELY loud beeping sound.  This state is completely unrecoverable once it triggers, the computer is 100% hosed until you reboot. Just google search &#34;deathadder beeping&#34; for forum posts and videos about the issue.  There is no fix, and Razer doesn't give a $&@# about the problem.  Their advice was &#34;try a different Razer product&#34;.  Sucks being a lefty gamer.
5	1371168000	This mouse is not only excellent for gaming but it is useful for any other purpose, including graphics. It is very precise, easy to use and get used to. It is also great for those of us who have carpul tunnel or problems with wrists as your wrist rests on the mouse comfortably. Great price...highly recommended!
5	1371081600	Great look, great performance, high quality, sleek, pc gamers must have. Love razer products. Would buy them all if i had the money! Haha the leds and control panel for the light and sensitivity are a grea added bonus to an already great device.
4	1370995200	First of all, a mouse this nice should be used with a quality mouse pad. I use the Small Razer goliathus Control, but speed would probably work great as well. You can make extremely careful and precise movements with this mouse which could help with paint programs. If you're playing a game that involves using the scroll wheel to cycle through weapons or something, there is a nice tactile bump you feel that lets you know you've made one click. This prevents me from cycling through too many times by accident. There aren't too many buttons so that I get confused, I like the simplicity of design. As for the DPI, 6400 is ridiculous. I couldn't see myself ever setting it to more than 1800 DPI. The rubber grips are a nice touch as well for this mouse, it fits in my hand very comfortably.Overall, this mouse does what it's made to do, and it does it well. I'm happy I made the purchase.
4	1370908800	Initial Thoughts:I bought this mouse after researching various gaming mice that have been highlighted several times.  I didn't take this decision lightly, as the previous incarnation of this mouse was on my top three last time I purchased a mouse.  Having it crop up high on the list of recommendations from other players, not to mention various reviews by gamers (Pro and Am alike), I felt it was a definite solid choice that represented good value, excellent workmanship, and great performance.  Having owned a couple of  gaming mice over the last decade (Logitech, MadCatz), I found this mouse a decent break away from the norm.  Simple, sleek, efficient, light, accurate, precise.  These are words I would use to describe this mouse.Likes:Simplicity - The design is ergonomic, yet efficient.  5 buttons, that's it!  No more, no less.Light - No weight tuning system (which can deter your accuracy).Accurate - The high DPI sensor is very precise, and can scale movement to high and low DPI dynamically.  So when you move for quick reaction at ~1400 to 1800 DPI then down to precision at 450 DPI, this mouse scales in real time, keeping up with your input.Tactile feel - Left mouse button.  Solid performance, doesn't immediately give, but has less micro switch throw than most mouses.Dis-Likes:Tactile feel - Right mouse button. The throw was the same, but the impedance feels less tactile than the left mouse button.  It gives away much easier in comparison to the left button.Overall Impressions:Overall the design of this mouse is great, I gave it 4 STARS.  Since I have no benchmark for 5 stars personally, I would actually rate this mouse at 4.5 STARS in-between I like it and I love it.  Now the only quip I have about this mouse is the right mouse button.  It gives away much easier than the left mouse button.  I don't know if this is intentional or not.  I can see the point of having a light give on the right mouse button as in most FPS games, this is the Aim Down Sight feature.  For me it's a give or take in game.  I like the quick right click for instant ADS sniping, but sometimes that can be a hindrance when running around a corner and turning around to go the other way and engaging the ADS accidentally, there by going into a walk mode instead of running.Final thoughts:I can't say that hands down this is the mouse to get for you, but it is the mouse that has worked GREAT for me.  I listened to other players and I looked at various mice in the same category.  It fit my needs, met my goals, and made me a very, very happy gamer.  Using this mouse, my performance has improved very assuredly over time.  Seriously consider this mouse in your line up.  Razer makes a large product line for gamers, and most of their products are rated highly.  I use this mouse with my old Razer Vespula pad and it paired up impressively well.  The Synapse 2 software is easy to use, and can store the settings in the cloud.  So you can take this mouse with you to another computer, and keep the same settings and macros for your games and other apps if you have access to the Internet.
1	1370822400	You have to create an account with Razer to USE A MOUSE. The Mac software is terrible: it forgets your profiles, and demands reboots when it updates. I will never buy gear from Razer again after this experience. I should have learned my lesson when my last Razer mouse broke.
5	1370736000	The looks are great and even the package box is great! This mouse is perhaps the most comfortable I've had so far. The few buttons it has are located precisely where they should. The only problem I've had so far is with synapse 2.0, but other than that it is lovely.
5	1370649600	it is decent. i was a bit surprised that the box was bit crushed but the mouse is working flawlessly.
5	1370563200	A great mouse overall, its tracking is perfect, the texture and shape of the mouse are great as well. The thing looks pretty damn awesome and preforms just as great, i dont understand why people complain about razer synapse, it works just fine for me, I use it on a Steelseries QCK standard and I play FPS and RTS games and the mouse works amazingly for both. I bought it on amazon for about 55$ saving me some money and it was worth every penny.
5	1370476800	I've been a console gamer for ages. I've been trying to find the mouse that fits my style for a month now. For a while I settled with the Razer Naga but it just didn't feel responsive enough for fps. After buying the Razer Deathadder 2013 over the Steelseries Sensie, my Bf3 K/D ratio has gotten back to normal. On console I usually sit at a 3.5ish. Immediately after starting PC it was as low as 2.2. Now after getting this mouse it's back to 2.8. Took a day to get used to which is a time frame anyone could be happy with. As far as general longevity for this mouse, I'll have to wait and see. As far as short term performance thus far? I'm in love with this mouse. Hope this review helps.
5	1370476800	I've been an avid gamer all my life, yet I've never bothered with any gaming specific peripherals until very recently. I don't have too much to say that hasn't already been aforementioned in other reviews. But basically, this mouse is substantially better than anything I've used in the past; I can't imagine playing games without it now. If you're a gamer like I was, but have never made the transition to a gaming mouse, I would recommend doing so. The deathadder in particular is fairly expensive for just a mouse, but it's a great choice and well worth the cost.
5	1370390400	I rated this a 5 because it was FAR better than i expected it to be. It is extremely responsive and very comfortable in my hand. I would recommend this mouse to anyone trying to spend less than $100.
4	1370304000	Great mouse if you get a good one, I had 3 DOA, one mouse double clicks, one has a loose object inside it, and random scrolling on the wheel going the opposite way.Make sure you update the firmware!
5	1370304000	Note:  I bought my standard edition Razer Deathadder from Best Buy one year ago and have been using it ever since.Pros:-The mouse is exceedingly comfortable, if you read this and say "well my mouse is comfortable", then just wait and try this one out.  You will see a difference.-I use a palm grip, and I find this mouse to be perfect for my style.  No other mouse fits my hand just the same way as this one.  (I do have small hands)-Buttons on the side are super nice.  The main purpose I use them for is webpage scrolling, and as grenades in video-games, they work very well for both functions.-The mouse looks great, the blue flashing Razer symbol just looks extremely cool-It just performs VERY well.  The mouse tracks well on basically every surface, and the sensitivity is easily adjustable via Razer Synapse and Deathadder Driver.Cons:-The sides of the mouse get covered in grime.-Some people may dislike the lights on the mouse.-If the ergonomic pattern does not fit your hand it could get annoying (I have never heard anyone complain about this however.)-The cord actually broke at one point, but it still worksI use the mouse mainly for Counter Strike and League of Legends.  For both games I will compare the Deathadder to the Steelseries Sensei, another popular gaming mouse.In terms of CS I greatly preferred the Deathadder.  Explaining why is tricky, it just FELT better.  The grip of the mouse suits FPS games perfectly.  My aim was spot on and I never felt held back by the mouse.  The Sensei just didn't have the same feel to it.  While both mouses did work well, I greatly preferred the feel of the Deathadder.  The Deathadder works very well for small, precise, and controlled movements.League of Legends and Starcraft were different however.  I would say the mice were practically the same, but the Sensei may have been nicer, as it is very easy to control for larger mouse strokes.  The Deathadder can still do this well, but the Sensei just felt more in control while doing it.In regards to the sides of the mouse getting dirty, this is a relatively small problem which occurs on most mice.  What happens is grime builds up a noticeable amount on the sides of the mice (where your thumb and palm rest).  This can be cleaned off simply with a paper towel, so it really is a non-issue.I have a cat that has an affinity for breaking things.  One day I see it attacking the cord, but alas, it is too late.  The damage has been done.  The wire was cut open in one spot, but just by pinching the cord together and the magic of a little bit of scotch tape I was able to get it to work again.  Because of this I got a Razer mouse bungee so that this area of the cord is protected.  (I also love the bungee if you are considering one!)Overall I would highly recommend the Deathadder to anyone who is in the market for a gaming mouse.  The two buttons on the side of the mouse work well for any purpose you set them to, and this can be whatever your heart desires.  I have never bothered to change them off of the standard webpage scrolling function as it is infinitely useful.  The Sensei and the Deathadder are two of the most popular gaming mice on the market, and having used both, I would recommend a potential buyer to get the Deathadder.
5	1370217600	I don't have much else to say. This mouse is the cream of the crop. It glides well, it grips well, it tracks well. I haven't had a single click mistake or tracking error, and that's all you can really ask for in a mouse, isn't it?
5	1370217600	Great mouse. It isn't too large (compared to some other mice) and has a nice matte finish. Does get dirty.
5	1369958400	The best mouse i have tried. Confortable to use, and i liked the new anti-slip fodder at the sides. a
3	1369958400	I'll keep this short, cause I'm returning it. I wanted a mouse that would be more precise and responsive for gaming. I previously used a plain logitech mouse, and when I tried out the DeathAdder, it was not as accurate as the logitech. It would always overshoot the click target by just a hair. I know the settings are customizable, but even fiddling with the settings didn't help. The lower DPI settings just made it move more slowly. I thought perhaps it was my mousepad, so I got the DeathAdder mouse pad to go with it, and it was no different. I'm sending it back and just plan to stick with a normal mouse. It's possible I didn't tweak the settings right, but there's really only one slider which adjusts the DPI, and the mouse pad settings...
5	1369958400	The quality was amazing. Hands down, this is the best mouse I've ever held.Highly recommend it!Grade A quality.
5	1369958400	Bought for my son he loves it with his new laptop. Would definitely recommend for anyone who wants a good gaming mouse
5	1369872000	If you just need the perfect mouse for design or any technical job, this is it.Gaming is a plus with this precise mouse.A must have for digital architects or artist
2	1369785600	This mouse is definitely not brand new because the plastic paper has been taken off and there are couple of scratches under the mouse. Plus, the sticker on the box is replaced. It is obvious that it was used before i purchased it.
5	1369785600	the razer deathadder 2013 is a major improvement over its brother deathadder the 3500 d.p.i version first things first 2013 version i read a lot about razer quality issues after a month people have sed parts break i can be a testament that this is false! for both versions  of the mouse i own both the 2013 and 2011 versions and both of them work as if there brand new i take very good care of my mice  and yes i game hard so i can once again be a testament to there high quality I've owned the 2011 version for a little over a year and it has been subjected to tons of hours of gaming and I've owned the 2013 version for about a 3 weeks now again its got about 40 hours of gaming put into it so though's who say these mice break after a month or two its more than likely there fault not razer gaming's fault on to my next subject cons and pro's  to witch version of the razer deathadder you getdeathadder (2013)1. all mat finish rubber side grips means no finger prints improved control mouse i do not sweat much so mouse needs little cleaning after gaming2. a major d.p.i buff i don't think you need 6400 d.p.i but it is nice lol3. meany have sed razer 2.0 sucks i don't think it does people say it will cause your computer to crash has not hapend to me so im just going to chock this one up as they downloaded the wrong version other than that i have had a very easy time working razer 2.04.breaded anti tangle cable very nice5. improved scroll weel6. 4G sensordeathadder (2011)1. no mat finish on sides so 2011 deathadder is a finger print magnet must clean after use!!!!! or risk the mouse breaking on you do to sweat build up2. no rubber side grips makes it harder to use a claw grip3 3500 d.p,i not a big deal 3500 is more than enough d.p.i4. 3.G sensor slightly less responsive than the 4.G sensor on razer deathadder 20135. non grip scroll weelto my entry level p.c gamers may i recamend the razer abyssus i also own that it has the 3.G sensor that the deathadder 2011 has but feels lighter same level of quality your giving up braided cord with the razer abyssus though great for claw grip players i use the razer abyssus as my back up great mouse! i put a lot of effort into this reveaw so i hope this reveaw helped you the reader out smiles :) :)
5	1369785600	I was a bit worried about how functional this mouse would be for the price, not containing many features normally seen on gaming mice. I was proven extremely wrong. When combined with the Razer Orbweaver, this has to be the best gaming mouse I have ever used! I would definitely recommend!
5	1369440000	Great product, but you need to download the synapse software to control the dpi. Although it goes to ~6400 dpi you can onlybreallybuse it at less than 2500.Comfortable, fast and with no pad friction. Awesome!
5	1369353600	I bought this both as an every day and as a gaming mouse.It works great for both. Its responsive and feels great in the hand. Would recommend to anybody looking for a good mouse for gaming or just every day
4	1369353600	This mouse is great I really like itthe only con I have about it is that it is still a little to small for me to be a palm mouse because I have a huge hand.So I end up kind of clawing it.Over all with the synapse 2.0 software the customization is great to configure the buttons on the mouse.
5	1369267200	I had a generic DELL mouse on my PC. Since i got my new mouse sometimes i just want to turn on my PC and hold this Razer DeathAdder 2013. It's just amazing how it feels and looks
1	1369267200	This item looks like mamba but come with wire. Maybe the old 2012 version share the soft rubber feeling with old mamba and other old model like imperator  etc.Now razer changed the feel of the rubber and its not pleasant to hold it. It's rough, uncomfortable.My advise is avoid this line of mouse. No matter how advance technically it maybe,  your hands will suffer as long you hold it.
5	1369094400	I was using a Logitech G5 with the blue crackle finish. I liked it alot but used it really hard for a few years and wore out the left select button. I did not like the looks of their newer offerings so decided to try the latest from Razor and it seems very nice, and what is important to me is how accurate and easy to use the buttons are, and it is the best, as far as I am concerned.
5	1369008000	i bought it first of because of the brand name RAZER ,its build by gamer and for gamer! :)i have few other stuff by razer and they all still working and the material of the mouse is the best ,the mouse is very Accurate and the green led pretty good .
5	1369008000	This review is meant specifically for the left handed version of this mouse.It is an excellent mouse especially in regards to sensitivity, quick response and ability to modify these settings. The size is one I prefer - the older "fit" sytle; not the newer large style to which most right handed mice have changed.I gave this mouse a 5 star rating because this is just about the only left handed gaming mouse on the market. There really isn't another choice that I could find in a left handed specific gaming mouse. Also, you can reprogram the mouse buttons.  This is my second deathadder. I use them as my everyday mouse, not just as a gaming mouse. Today, I feel lucky to find any left handed mice.  Thank you to Razer for even having a left handed version.With the recent trend in computer mice, there are almost no left handed choices at all. Even the number of 'either hand' mice has been slowly being reduced. Lefties have almost no choices available.It is a bit disappointing that (not counting the scroll wheel) the mouse only has 4 buttons. Everyday right handed mice have 4 buttons or more.  Right handed gaming mice always have more buttons.While not gaming mice, there are a couple of ergonomic left handed mice - like 'The Quill'.  They are expensive, not as responsive as the Razer and some only have 2 buttons.Final words: this is an excellent mouse. It would be nice to have other left handed mice on the markets for both comparison and choice purposes. It would be nice to have a choice with more programmable buttons. Neither of these 'wishes' change anything. This is a very good mouse.
2	1368921600	Lasted 20 days before one of the buttons on the side became very loose. I am a gamer who plays Starcraft 2, so if you are using this mouse for something other than gaming I would recommend it to you. The mouse does say GAMING MOUSE so why don't they build these things to last?? Anyone have any recommendations to buy a DURABLE mouse?? Everything else about this mouse is great! Its super comfortable and very responsive! If you're not going to use the two buttons on the side a whole bunch, get it.
4	1368921600	The mouse is great. It's clicky, tactile, glowy, grippy, slidey and I love it (I enjoy the simple things). I was most amused by how you can turn the lights on and off with Synapse, but Synapse is awful. It begs for updates more than adobe reader.Also it's a little pricey but it's a Razer product so what can you expect. I have massive hands and this thing fits me perfectly, but my friends with smaller hands had no issues with it. The nylon cable is fine but it accumulates a lot of dust so I have to clean it alot. The mouse wheel isn't the most solid thing in the world, but it's tactile and clicky so you know when you rolled it.It has a mousepad calibration thing which is neat because if you slide the mouse off of the calibrated mousepad, then the mouse won't work. The DPI is crazy high but I would have liked an on-mouse dpi switch like the Abyssus.It's comfortable and has those side grip things. The plastic feels really nice to the touch and the logo pulsates so it's basically a free nightlight too. So if you want a nice mouse then buy this because it's pretty neat and it works.OH WAIT, GAMEPLAY! It improved my aim a little but it's nothing to write home about, I didn't even buy this thing to improve my aim it's because my stupid old Gigabyte mouse died and I needed a new mouse.So what're you waiting for buy this thing.
5	1368835200	Item is as it is described, have had it for a few months and no problems so far, great mouse!
5	1368662400	Great gaming mouse with great feel. Green color looks great too. I haven't had an issue with it yet. Perfect for everything.
3	1368662400	I have used the DeathAdder mouse since the original as it was the most similar mouse to the the Microsoft Intellimouse 3.0.  It has been a solid gaming mouse through the years of use but like all mice, some components are skimped on and they end up not lasting very long.Pros:  It's pretty, comfortable and I love the new side grips on the mouse and the new material.Cons:  It's too light, I liked the weight of the previous versions but that is just preference.  The thumb button (top one) is already dying on me.  I am going to have to replace it and this seems to be a common issue with DeathAdder mice, possibly all Razer mice.  Synapse is a pain to install, caused a disk recovery once I rebooted after installation.  Once I finally got it installed it has been fine but the initial experience was horrible.Other thoughts:  I have had the thumb key issue with a few mice before, sometimes you get a good sturdy mouse and sometimes you don't.  I'm hoping the replacement I get lasts longer.  If it's not the thumb keys it's usually another key or the switches going bad way early.  When they're working though they are great mice.
5	1368576000	I just purchased a Razer DeathAdder 2013 mouse and can say this is easily the best mouse I have used, ever.  Might not sound like alot but I have been using mice since the god-awful attempt Commodore made at one in 1985 on the Commodore 64, and later, the hair gobbling one they had for the Commodore Amiga in 1989.This mouse feels great in my hand, it's really a palm grip and sits nicely in your palm with a soft textured finish, really light but clear mouse clicks and a decent rubberized mouse wheel.Best thing is, I bought a &#34;used&#34; listing which was sold at 50% off just because it had a tiny 1mm mark almost invisible to the eye on the right mouse button.  I had to look at it closely under direct sunlight to even see the flaw.  Recommended.
5	1368576000	I use this mouse at work as a researcher & programmer (sigh, unfortunately, not as professional game player).  It works quite well ... accurate tracking, responsive to mouse clicks, etc. 18 months into its life.  I purchased this and a wireless left-hand mouse at the same time.  The wireless mouse is also good, but was *ridiculously* expensive when compared to the Razer.  Even if you aren't gaming, this is the mouse I would get if I was in the lhm (left-hand mouse) market.Bonus: the fact that the base "throbs" with light makes any executive who makes it into your office chuckle (that's not always a small order).  Okay, they may grimace as well.
3	1368489600	In the physical side my only complain is that the buttons are swapped in hardware level. Ergonomically the mouse fits my hand really nicely and the finish is really good.The biggest problem are the drivers. For example if you reconnect your mouse without booting, the mouse starts freezing up every few seconds. I decided to uninstall the drivers and use just generic drivers (no way to change DPI etc.).I might be able to recommend this product if you never unplug the mouse (users of multiple computers / KVM-things etc.) or if you won't be needing the services provided by the drivers.
5	1368403200	What can I say? This is the Deathadder you know and love, but mirrored so left handed people can enjoy that contoured feeling too. :) I love this mouse so much, to the point where I almost considered dragging it to work every day so I would have a nice mouse there too.I noticed two things that are so minor they don't affect my score but are things you should be aware of before buying:1) My hands are pretty small and sometimes the mouse feels a tad over sized, but it's nothing compared to the discomfort of a right handed or symmetrical mouse. I doubt anyone other then very small-handed people would even notice this and unless I hold the mouse in one really particular way, I don't either.2) Even though I'm left handed, I've used a right handed button configuration all my life (aka left mouse button is primary, right is secondary). However, the left handed Deathadder is designed for people who have swapped the buttons (so left is secondary and right is primary). When I first used it, it felt wrong and kind of uncomfortable to use the left mouse button and my middle finger as the primary mouse button/finger so I swapped it in Windows 7's settings. I was expecting a huge learning curve after the change, but not so! The mouse is contoured so nicely that after a few hours, I was using my index finger and the right button as the primary button like a pro. (Though, good luck transitioning back to the other configuration at work/public computers, but at least it's an easy setting to change.)The mouse worked immediately after plugging in on Windows 7 box, with no need for Razer's drivers. I've used it for gaming as well as web browsing for hours on end with no discomfort after the intital learning phase (mentioned above). As with all Razer mice, the buttons and tracking are responsive and the mouse texturing/shape is comfortable. The side buttons seem nice but I haven't used them very much yet, as I'm not used to having side buttons at all!Overall, I couldn't be happier with this purchase. If you need a left handed mouse for any sort of serious computer using, this is the one for you!
5	1368403200	Awesome and really good! The full package and good performance satisfies me. Really worth it! A good mouse for gamers.
5	1368230400	My first left handed mouse &#34;i'm left handed on the kb/m&#34; does the job. Only issue is the top side button is a little hard to reach at times when in the midst of a game. Otherwise it's what you would expect :D
5	1368144000	Well I have to say combined with the Goliathus control mouse pad, this mouse brings precision to computer gaming with the comfort that anyone who gets hand cramps would appreciate.
5	1368057600	Does everything I need it to do, and I love how I can customize the mouse settings it's great for league of legends.
5	1368057600	I use this mouse play LOL, its perfect! The green light is beautiful! I feel comfortable when I used this mouse during the game
5	1368057600	It's awesome, tons of customization. Especially with the new Razer Synapse 2.0. When I initially purchased the mouse, while I was playing FPS games, it would randomly make me look to the sky. Updating the mouse and calibrating it to my mouse pad fixed that problem! It's so incredibly accurate, perfect weight, my hand never gets uncomfortable, even after hours and hours of use. I would buy another one of these if something were to happen to this one.
5	1367884800	This is hands down my favorite mouse. It feels so comfortable my hand as if they fit together perfectly. It is very light and with proper settings, I do not need to move it very much to complete my desired actions. I haven't had any issues with response or with the software. The glowing green Razer symbol is neat but just a novelty. I've had it for 3 months and has been awesome. Hopefully I won't need to get a new mouse in a long time!
5	1367798400	I like this mouse, especially its gliding feature, very convenient, offers some relief from using only right hand, I would recommend it for someone trying to use left hand for the first time.
5	1367798400	The Razer DeathAdder is a great gaming mouse and the perfect companion to my Razer Blackwidow Ultimate 2013 Elite Mechanical Gaming Keyboard.  The DeathAdder is a comfortable mouse with a nice feel even after hours of play.  With it's natural fit, I am seldom aware of it being there.  Being able to use the same software for programing both mouse and keyboard is a big plus.
5	1367798400	The CPM (clicks per minute) on this mouse is tremendous! It's really an amazing mouse with amazing power. The cable is very very durable and the scrolling is fantastic. The mouse also lights up, which adds a nice glow.All around great mouse with great features.
4	1367712000	First thing I noticed upon placing my hand on this was the &#34;Gritty&#34; texture the whole mouse has. It's not a smooth mouse/glossy mouse. Consider this if you may. (2013 edition)Turned down the DPI to around 1300, as I'm not a fanatic about high sensitivities.Whole mouse itself is working under correct conditions and am pleased to of bought it.Under FREE Super Savings shipping though, it took almost 5 days for it to at least begin shipping, kind of disappointed in Amazon for that. Usually only 2-3 days even with Free shipping.
1	1367625600	The first day it came it in worked perfectly. Everything installed correctly no problems. The second day I returned home to find my mouse off. I read online it could have been an issue with the driver. I have uninstalled the driver 3 times plugged the mice into multiples USB slots and even tried it on other computers. All of these possible solutions failed to work.I would not recommend this mouse to anyone.
4	1367539200	I got the E-3lue Cobra , this and Razer to replace my MS wireless mice at home and work.All amazing mice.  3lue's thumb buttons are too close to you/palm of your hand and hard to find.  But for $11, that was great for work.Anker and this were very comparable.  Both have great feel, quite, both have braided cloth cables, though this has a slightly softer thinner cable.As far as design & LEDs, and Anker was better.  I like it's curve better and of course you can change the LED color to anything, and you can't change Razer's.The buttons on Anker blew me away.  They are ALL comfortably reached and distinguishable with ease (and I'm not good at that).  AND they are programmable with a simple downloaded app.  That's not to say Razer's buttons aren't great, they really are, but you get the standard 5 buttons.  There you can 3 programmable thumb buttons that are fantastic for figuring out which is which by feel, and 4 buttons for your middle finger.The software on the Anker also won.  The Razer mouse software wants to log into their server every time you boot (or always stay connected as another option).  As everyone else has said, WHY FORCE US TO CREATE AN ACCOUNT AND STAY CONNECTED??Anker was going to be the winner in all fronts, including price for me, but alas I don't use a mouse-pad, I just put my mice on my desk with a wrist pad, and unlike the 3lue and Razer, the feet on the Anker would EVER so slightly stick to my desk.  Never while in motion, but when trying to point at something precise, I'd end up a millimeter to the side, and trying to move back would mean the ever so slight jerk to get it from the ever so slight sticking to move, ending the cursor yet at the other side of where I wanted to point.So I'm going to keep the Razer as my gaming mouse... because its feet don't stick to my desk, it slides around quietly and effortlessly on my desk.So, if you have a mousepad, I'd recommend Anker instead.  More buttons, better design, cheaper, no loggin in, great software, great LED colors, all around better mouse (though the Razer's cable is slightly nicer).  Otherwise, get the Razer.  If you don't have much money or don't care about the side buttons, then get the E-3lue Cobra Type-M EMS131BK High Precision Gaming MousePs.  The "programming" software you see everyone talking about is fairly useless.  You can't program the buttons.  What it allows is assigning a program to execute when a button is pressed, to assign different button numbers than the defaults or have a mouse button map to a keyboard (so pressing a button will press that key).  But you can't create programs or scripts.
4	1367539200	Great mouse it's much better than I expected. I felt awkward at first but I quickly adjusted. i would rather have gotten the razer taipan.
5	1367539200	The wire has that nice untangled mesh around it, and the mouse itself fits my hand perfectly.With a good surface, it's super smooth, and lends itself well to precise gestures.I've had many problems with Razor's older products, but so far I'm quite pleased with this one.Good job Razor.
5	1367452800	My brother needed a new mouse as his was going bad.  I have a Razer Naga Hex and been very impressed with it and I love the black with green color scheme.  My brother doesn't play games that require a ton of buttons so this was perfect.  The mouse works great and my brother is happy.
1	1367366400	This was an Easter gift for my grandson so he started using it March 31, 2013.  He loved this gaming mouse.  The left click button quit working on April 28, 2013; one day after the Amazon return window expired.  We are not impressed with the Razer DeathAdder gaming mouse.  My grandson is crushed.
3	1367366400	This product will work OK on a Mac (I have OSX 10.8.3) as long as you do not use the Razer drivers.....IF YOU HAVE A MAC, AND YOU DON'T INSTALL 'RAZER_SYNAPSE&#34; this &#34;Death Adder&#34; will work as well as the apple or other mouse. Don't see any advantage.  I installed the software as instructed couldn't get the cursor to move. I had to plug in my old apple mouse again. I uninstalled and reinstalled 3 times, starting all the steps (1-6) from the beginning each time. Same result. DON'T waste your money.
1	1367280000	EDIT 3-24-2014 - It has been almost a year since I wrote this review. Since these guys sent me 2 bad mice in a row I had just ordered another mouse, the original blue glow Deathadder from another company and it was fine. The blue glow that I have been using started acting up because that's how Razer is they don't make anything that lasts, so I made sure I bought a 2-year warranty with this one. I just bought this exact same mouse at Best Buy and it has exactly zero of the problems mentioned here. The right-click button is not super sensitive, the left click is not super loud, the mouse wheel doesn't sound like a woodpecker knocking on wood when you scroll with it, and the top does not feel like very rough sandpaper. This one is perfect which proves that at the time I had bought these from this company, they no doubt had a bad batch of mice that were not quality tested before they went out. They sent me two bad mice in a row. It has been a year and I do not know how this company operates now but I would still suggest buying this mouse from Best Buy and not here. I will leave the review below as is so you can see how my experience with them was.THIS REVIEW IS FOR THE 2013 EDITIONThey sent me 2 bad mice in a row!1. First off, I had had to return two of these in a row for multiple problems. Both mice had the same problems. They both required almost no pressure at all to right click, meaning constantly accidentally right clicking. They shipped me back to back bad mice.2. Secondly, the clicking is much louder than the regular deathadder. Especially the left click. Compared to the normal sound the regular deathadder makes, this one sounds like a bomb going off when I click. This mouse click is way too loud on both mice they sent me.3. Thirdly, the scroll wheel is awful. It does not scroll up and down smooth at all. Its like rolling over speed bumps while the regular deathadder's scroll wheel was very smooth. Also, when I scroll it up, it makes a very loud knocking sound that sounds exactly like a woodpecker banging on a tree. The regular deathadder makes no sound when I scroll up or down. Both mice they sent me had this problem.4. The top of the mouse is very rough like sandpaper. Both mice had this problem.At the time I bought this, they had to have got a bad shipment with some of the mice not being quality tested before going up for sale because I bought this same mouse at Best Buy recently and it has none of the problems mentioned here.EDIT: Just got my 3.5g 3500 standard edition in the mail today, which is the exact same model I've had for a year and am replacing it because the left click is acting up after heavy use for that year. So I can't be mad because I got a solid year of heavy use from it. As the one I am replacing was, this mouse is perfect, 5 stars. Looks sleek, shiny, and beautiful right out of the box. Works perfectly, and the horrible mechanical issues I found present in both 2013 edition mice that were sent to me are not present in this model, as I figured they would not be.
5	1367107200	This mouse is awesome. It handles so smooth and the reaction time is very fast. It's comfortable and soft. I just love it :)
2	1367107200	EDIT 6/15/2013:Second replacement mouse has already broken. Mouse wheel functionality going up still made a ton of noise and didn't always register that it scrolled up on each click. Sounds like a problem with fault encoders. The right click on the mouse was also broken, making a crunching noise, sometimes registering as two mouse button presses, sometimes none, but always squishy and crunchy and awful. I RMAed, and this time it went slightly quicker (from start to finish took over 3 weeks to receive my new mouse) and I got a refurbished one in return. This refurbished mouse had something caked all over the mousewheel which I cleaned myself. Nothing better than paying premium prices for premium products and getting second rate customer service in return for it.ORIGINAL REVIEW:I had been using a Deathadder 1800dpi model mouse for about 3 years when Mouse Button 4 broke and sunk into the body of the mouse. I figured no big deal, I had put the mouse through the ringer and it was time to store it away as a backup... the new Deathadder 2013 is coming out and it's resolving all the gripes I had with the original model. Matte finish, rubber grips on the side, better more tactile scroll wheel, higher DPI... SIGN ME UP!First month with the mouse was awesome. Loved every second of it. However, in month two, Mouse Button 5 (which was being used as a Push To Talk button in Ventrilo) broke, and collapsed into the mouse. Now i'm like "Oh god, not again". My RMA window was gone with Amazon, so I got in contact with Razer. Here's where everything went bad.1. Their RMA website leads you in circles, no clear cut or easy way to start up a ticket.2. Once you finally find what you need to do to RMA, the Deathadder 2013 isn't even in their list of products to RMA, so I had to file it under the original Deathadder.3. The process is HORRENDOUSLY slow. Back and forth for over a week, still didn't even receive and RMA number, in week two I had to put a plea for help on the CEO's facebook wall to get the ball rolling again.4. Receive an e-mail back from RMA 6 hours after posting on CEO's facebook, process moving along again. A week later, I still don't have all necessary information to RMA my mouse.5. Two weeks later, still no returned mouse, even though my mouse was confirmed back to their facility 8 business days prior.6. Finally get the information after searching online for a call center number as they don't list it ANYWHERE on their page. It gets escalated and they're supposed to call me back 24 hours later from the escalated support group.7. 5 business days later, still no call back. I send an e-mail telling them how upset I am, and I'd be more than happy to take my money back.8. 3 days later, I get an e-mail telling me that the product is on back order and it'll be shipped in 3 business days. WHY DIDN'T ANYONE TELL ME THAT IN THE FIRST PLACE9. 2 weeks later, I finally receive a mouse.10. Replacement mouse makes a ridiculous clicking noise when scrolling the mouse wheel up. It's annoying as anything, but I'm not going through the process again. I'll drown it out for as long as possible while searching for a replacement company to purchase my products from.I had amazing luck with Razer products up until this point. Deathadder 1800dpi was amazing. Blackwidow mechanical keyboard is still functioning to this day. But two Deathadder 2013's, one broken, the other not functioning as intended, and a 6 week RMA process to get a return has left me with an awful taste in my mouth.Buyer beware. 2/5 stars only because the shape and sensor are absolutely amazing. If it wasn't for the comfort and precision of the mouse I would trade out instantly.
5	1367107200	Works GREAT!Plug in and Play, never installed anything, or had to register anything. Worked perfectly.Suggest buying a recommended mouse pad so it works well. My usage of stacks of paper works as a mousepad, however is frustrating from time to time, debating investing in a nice mousepad that is compatible and works well.Operating System Vers:OSX 10.8.3
5	1367107200	The mouse is simply amazing. It fits my hand perfectly. I was worried it wouldn't fit my wife's hand but it did. It is wonderful.
2	1367020800	Pro-Great FPS mouse-Great tracking on all mouse pads-New rubber sides are very comfortableCon-Quality, mouse one button broke in less than a month-Cloud driversOverall - if my replacement mouse lasts more than a month, I would recommend this mouse.EDIT - It did not.  2nd mouse1 button broken in 2 months. Would not recommend for gaming, would recommend for an old grandparent who surfs the web on Sundays.
5	1366934400	If you want to feel comfortable using a mouse and at the same time purchase something cheap, go for it.
5	1366934400	super awesome mouse! has improved my gaming more than i could have imagined. i would strongly recommend this product. 1 1 1 1
5	1366934400	great product. no flaws. easy to use. everything i needed and more. would buy again and i recommend this product
5	1366848000	Everything I want out of a mouse is here and even more than I can ask for. The only con you could consider would be that the limited options for the Razer logo lighting. When it's on it pulsates... but only pulsates. So you only have the option to have it pulsate or have it off. Overall great versatile mouse for internet enthusiasts, artists, and gamers.
3	1366848000	Nice mouse, wel constructed, decent ergonomics if your palm grip.Useless for people like me who are fingertip grip.Optical sensor - in a laser sensor price range.
5	1366761600	Build quality increase was overwhelmingly the greatest feature of this device over the prior iterations. This is most clear in the scroll wheel, which I am shocked to report did not feebly begin to double-notch and skip within the week. Never had I been more frustrated than when my DA Black broke in such a manor.The grips feel well attached and don't seem to be gathering dirt, the sensor is sharp as all hell, and you can turn off the palm light for added aesthetic value. I finally don't feel guilty about being addicted to DeathAdders.
1	1366761600	In order to run this mouse you MUST agree to allow Razer to access &#34;personal&#34; and &#34;identifying&#34; information.  You agree to allow them to use this information in whatever fashion they want without your knowledge.  You WILL NOT be able to download a driver for this mouse unless you agree to these terms.George Orwell was right
5	1366761600	Great mouse. Replaced my Razer Mamba the original one from like 2010 which I didn't really use in wireless mode. So saw. O point in getting the Mamba 2012.
5	1366675200	I don't use this mouse for gaming but at work for photoshop and other everyday computer use. The buttons are a pleasure to press with great feedback. The movement of the cursor is as smooth as ever. Great overall design that can work with palm grip, claw grip, or fingertip grip equally. I Don't care much for bloatware (razer synapse). Everything is taken care of with Autohotkey for me.
5	1366675200	as a dota player, this is the best mice i have ever used.  You guys should have a try! Nice
4	1366588800	To my experience; I'm running a 15 inch MBP Retina and M. Lion. The Synapse software installed initially and I was able to use the mouse for 4 days before the first one diedI continue to get a "Please connect a Razer device.." message.I've escalated to support. It ended up being a bricked mouse.UPDATE:I sent back to Amazon and received a replacement.Since then I have had no issues. I use the mouse in my aforementioned MBP with a VMWare Fusion instance running in it. I downloaded the Synapse software on the Mac side and it works well on my virtualized Windows instance.I will say that the Synapse software gets in weird "spinning colorwheel" state on Mac side. It means I can't back into the mouse configuration software once it's running, but I set it up once and haven't had to go back in. Not sure what the issue is, but this is the only reason I didn't give this 5 stars.
5	1366588800	I tried a number of new mice before I finally settled on this one. It's a great mouse with great configuration software. In the 20+ years I've been using mice, this is probably my favorite.
4	1366588800	The main beef I have is that while the Razer Synapse Software works fine as it is (@ version 2.0)I'm experiencing weird UI / Issues when trying to update the software, namely the Mouse FW.At this time (I've bought 3 mice like this). It is trying to upgrade the FW from ver 1.1.0 to 1.3.0.The update process seems just to be stuck.It starts by informing me that the mouse will be disconnected and unrecognized by the OS while the update is progressing, which is obviously understandable...Unfortunately the update just sits there doing nothing, until at some point a magical notification appears below, asking me to reconnect the device.At this point, the "normal" user has no idea if the update was successful or not (the progress bar is still at 0%).Once the mouse is reconnected, there is no way to query the software about the current FW version (is it still 1.1.0 or 1.3.0?).After a few days (!), the update re-appears, I try it again, and the same issue happens again.I'm using Windows 8 / x64 if that is important.Other than the somewhat quirky update process, the mouse works splendidly well..
5	1366588800	My husband likes this mouse. He has always had to use a right-handed mouse or one that is supposed to be convertible. This one helps him be more productive when working at his laptop.
5	1366588800	I've had a ton of gaming mice over the years, but since I first put a Razer DeathAdder in my hands, the search was over. I actually bought this because I wore through the side foam padding on my Mamba and I use a DeathAdder on my desktop. Decided to go with corded because I never remembered to charge the other one so I was always playing with it corded anyway. There are other quality gaming mice out there (Logitech makes some good ones) but for my personal taste, they can't beat Razer.
5	1366502400	One of the best gaming mice I've owned. Fits my hand perfectly well with my fingertip-grip. All the buttons feel great, and it has great DPI for those extremely precise movements. I haven't really used the 6400 dpi, as I haven't been able to get used to more than 5500, but it's a nice feature to have combined with the 1000Hz polling.My only qualm is that after about a month of usage, the scroll wheel makes a slight squeaking sound if I scroll downwards very slowly, but not enough to make me subtract a star.Very good mouse. I'd recommend it to anyone who doesn't need more than 2 extra buttons to the side. If you do need more, the Naga or Naga Hex are the first that come to mind.
4	1366502400	I'm 6'5&#34;.  I have hands that match my height.  Most mice are small in my hands, including this one.  What's strange about this one is I seem to accidentally click the right button with my ring finger fairly regularly, and this isn't a problem I've had with most other mice.  I'm trying to train myself out of doing it, but something about the slope/ergonomics makes it difficult.Other than that, the software is pretty nice - you can customize settings for various apps - for example, increasing the speed of your mouse in a game without making it overspeed in the desktop.  The palmtop light slowly pulses on and off, which I find really annoying out of the corner of my eye.  Thankfully, you can turn this one, and the solid lights on the scroll wheel off through the software.I'd love a 'large hand' version, but other than that, this is a very solid mouse.
1	1366329600	Again. They got me again. I've been buying razer stuff since 2007, i even sold it at my store. I've had Razer's tarantula, baracuda headphones and soundcard, 5 death adders, 1 copperhead, and now deathadder 2013.God it feels great, why else would i keep spending 60 bucks more than once a year on these mice.The 2013 in particular has a rubber grip on the thumbs that is a dream, and the palm fits my hand perfectly.So here we go again (as every product from them i've had hasn't lasted more then a year other then the keyboard/headphones, soundcard didnt have driver support for windows 7 for almost 6 months), every click with the left button is a double click. It's less then 2 months old, i haven't played any games like League of Legends or TF2 (demospam) on this mouse and can say i have not worn it down... its just double clicking and causing massive issues and there's no driver or firmware fix out for it and its too late for me to return.Oh a warranty? Sure i can do what i did last time i attempted the warranty, i'll ship out, i'll get one back , and it'll do the same thing right out of the box... only to be sent back and repeat this 2 more times before i say screw it.Congratulations Razer, you got me again.
5	1366243200	Present to use correct buttons, so need to undo system settings. But therefore works in games that read raw button data. Great.
5	1366156800	This mouse is great.  I was worried about tracking issues I read about (mostly old) but I haven't had any issues at all.  The first thing I did was download Razer's software for gaming mice and it auto-updated the DeathAdder 2013 firmware to the latest and greatest.  I haven't had any tracking issues at all.  This mouse is very responsive and feels great.  I paired it up with the Razer goliathus L mouse pad which is just plain huge.  Perfect for my huge table top.
5	1366156800	I switched from the Razer Imperator 2012 to this mouse. I have to say that it is an upgrade for me.This mouse feels very nice when you hold it. The grips of this mouse makes your thumb touch the table surface. This feature makes you have a bit more sense of the position of the mouse. One complaint that I have to say is that the buttons are a bit too click sensitive. But of course it just needs some time to get used to. Once already used to the mouse, it feels great.I played FPS games for probably 5 hours and my hands dont feel tired at all. The surfaces grip your hands well. Drivers for this mouse contains a lot of handy features and easy to configure. This is a true ergonomic gaming mouse.
5	1366070400	Great size, weight, shape and texture.  The buttons  are just the right sensitivity for me, and there are not too many of them.  :)  The option in Synapse to turn off the LEDs is handy.I consider this an upgrade from my Logitech G500 that died two weeks ago (and I like the G500).
5	1366070400	I have been using RAT7 for the last 4 months. It was not bad, but since I spend most of my gaming time on Starcraft2, that mouse is a little bit heavy and the keys are too hard for rapid clicking that RTS games require. So I decided to try deathadder 2013. This is the best gaming mouse I've ever used.I feels just right in your hand. Nice texture and shape. It's light but not too much, just about the right weight to make a high-end looking and feeling gaming mouse (given its relatively low price comparing to mamba and rat7, rat9). I didn't set the DPI too high, which I usuqlly do. I just went the default setting, which is around 2700 DPI. It felt awesome in playing Starcraft! This changed my whole idea of understanding DPI. I can click each small unit accurately and rapidly.After I got this mouse, I played 10 games and won 9! I'm in high Gold league and now I almost get promoted with the 3rd place in the league.Definitely recommend this mouse for any Starcraft 2 player.
2	1366070400	Razer no longer offers stand alone drivers.  I do not want my computer to be required to connect to Razer's stupid cloud driver setup.  Each outgoing connection from my system increases the attack surface on my network.  This cloud junk is totally worthless to me, and a security risk.  No thank Razer! I will NOT be buying Razer products again.
5	1365984000	Razer DeathAdder 2013 Essential Ergonomic Gaming Mouse (RZ01-00840100-R3U1)I have used and evaluated so many mice in the last few years.  Most recently I bought the Mad Catz R.A.T. 9 Wireless mouse and the Logitech MX Ergonomic mouse to use with Mac OS X.  I had the R.A.T. 9 replaced one due to a manufacturers defect.  Then found that Mad Catz mice have chronic problems with a "wandering cursor", where the cursor's movement is jerky and not smooth at all.  So I returned the R.A.T.  Then I purchased the Logitech MX mouse.  It's ergonomics are great, but the "wandering cursor" problem was also present with the Logitech, so I returned it the next day.I then purchased the Razer Deathadder.  I bought the original Razer mouse years ago when they first came on the computer seen. I  was so impressed with it then, I don't know why I didn't purchase another Razer right off the bat.  But, I'm soooooo happy that I bought the Razer Deathadder.  It's very comfortable and doesn't hurt my wrist at all (I've been suffering from wrist pain for a few years).  So that's the most important thing to me.But it also is incredibly responsive and accurate.  There is absolutely no wandering cursor problem with Razer.  The programable driver is easy to use and (being a graphics junkie I have to say this) looks awesome.  All of the buttons are placed exactly where I need them (and I'm 6'4" tall with big hands).  The weight of the Deathadder is perfect.  It's light enough that I can move it quickly, but has enough weight were I can feel it.I was so impressed with how Razer performs, I downloaded a bunch of Razer themed wallpapers as my own personal salute to how amazing this product is!  To all of the folks at Razer, thank you so much for making such an excellent product!  It's well worth the price and I'd recommend it to all my friends!!
5	1365897600	Pros: quiet click sound, added rubber grip, curvature fits palm perfectly, synapses 2.0 is easy to use and simply looks awesome, light weight, looks awesome on your desk.Cons: sometimes when i wake my computer up the mouse wont connect and i have to unplug and plug back in the usb, but that's a minor inconvenience.
5	1365897600	I got this mouse yesterday at a local Best Buy instead of here, but since I have it I suppose I can review it.Being my first DeathAdder, (second gaming mouse[Steelseries Kana was first]) I didn't have much expectations to look forward to, however, after doing some research into it and reading a bit of reviews along with user experience from OCN, I decided to buy one. The appearance is obviously the same as any DeathAdder in the market. And that's where the similarities seem to end. The rubber grips on the sides are a very good addition since they help tremendously in the holding/handling of the mouse. The green glow is completely subjective(some don't like it, others, like me, do like it). Also note, the mouse is noticeably heavier than the Kana so I did have to do some readjustment when doing my turns in game. I do have to point out that the scroll wheel (at least that's how it is on my DA) doesn't seem to be completely secure, meaning that if you move it left-to-right or shake the mouse, you can hear the scroll wheel shake. I'm not sure if all DA 2013 are like this or it's just mine that does this. Finally, the last to note about the exterior, the matte finish is astounding and feels nice to the touch.The tracking for this mouse is superb, better than my Kana that it replaced. The teflon feet are decent, however, it just skates throughout my mouse pad. I have a Steelseries QcK, for reference. I did read that the DA 2013 uses a Ultra Slick Teflon Feet, but I didn't expect it to be this slick. Being used to the friction that the Kana teflon feet had, this made my initial gaming experience rather difficult, but not impossible, to get used to. All of the clicks of the buttons are nice and responsive, although the left and right mouse buttons are very easy to click. You can probably think of Cherry MX Red keys as a comparison on how easy it is to accidentally click them. I have the Blackwidow and I normally hit the keys hard. Because of this, more often than not I would do a click I never intended to do.Synapse 2.0, the software that most people hate, is up and running just fine for my machine. I have read that some people said that Synapse was messing up their machine and whatnot but mine works flawlessly. You do have to sign up if you want to customize the mouse though, which is according to most, and I agree with them, one of the dumbest things Razer could possibly do. However,  the features it has are quite adequate and useful. Under four sections, Customize allows you to rebind your mouse buttons, along with the scroll wheel, to whatever function your want it to do. I believe the older DA's have this ability as well so it's good to see that it is back. You can also make your profiles here and rename them to whatever you want; Performance is where you can change the dpi settings you wish to use. For what it is worth, the increments for the dpi is 100 between each one. This has got to be the closest you can get in terms of how much dpi you want (The Sensei being the top since you can do increments of as low as 1 dpi between each increment). You can also change how much acceleration you want, ranging from 1 to 10. The polling rate seems standard, from 125, 500, and 1000; Lighting allows you to keep the glow of both the scroll wheel and logo, turn both off, or have just one of them on. This helped me confirm that the mouse has some sort of onboard memory. And the onboard memory was one of the biggest reasons why I bought this mouse. I will have to note that when you install Synapse 2.0, there is no easy way to "turn it off." By that, I mean that every time you turn on your computer, it will automatically run itself. If you want to manually open it, do the following steps: 1) press Windows Key + R, 2) type in "msconfig," 3) click on the startup section, 4) look for Razer Synapse 2.0 and uncheck it. Now you no longer have to worry about the software's auto startup. You can also use it in offline mode and it will still retain all of it's settings; Calibration, something I haven't used and some have advised not to use it, seems useful, on paper at least. Since I have no experience with this, I won't go any further.Since I only have this for just a day, I do plan to post more of my experience at some point in the future, whether it be positive or negative. I think I rambled on for far too long so if you have made it this far on my review, then I hope I have helped you in some way.
5	1365811200	Nice to see a company actually remember that 1 in 4 people are left handed love this my DPS in WoW has went up a little cant wait for the left handed naga! But in all fairness great for FPS and action based games.
5	1365811200	Very sleek design, braded cable is very nice. Has a great feel to it. Fits great in your hand. Overall it's a great mouse.
4	1365811200	Its shape can fit in your palm pretty well. But from certain angle the picture will make you feel it's a small mouse. Matter of fact, it's the largest mouse I've ever seen. So be careful if you have very small hands like me- it can be somehow uncomfortable using it.Just see all the pictures before you buy it. I had to return it despite its great sensitivity and cool look.
5	1365724800	I would recommend this mouse to any gamer. You can do so much that you can't do with other gaming mice. And it looks awesome too!
1	1365638400	Was a really nice mouse felt great had a good response but it broke after a week of use. Rather disappointed with the build quality of the mouse. For the price it's unacceptable.
5	1365552000	I'm not an obsessive gamer or anything, but I've got big hands and I don't use a mouse pad. This thing tracks perfectly on a table surface and feels great in my hand.I bought it for the build quality and was not disappointed. The name makes it sound like a toy but it works very well.
5	1365379200	Good mouse, I see no problems, it's smooth, responds fast, and durable.Every penny spent was worth it! Don't forget to get a mouse-pad. (Razor of course)
5	1365379200	I use it for MMO, and FPS gaming, It's very comofortable. I can play with it many hours and my hands doesn't hurt. The setup was very fast. It's a superb mouse. I recommend it for everyone.
5	1365379200	I got this a few months back since all the off the shelf mice were just not responding well when playing SC2. I got DeathAdder and have not looked back...
5	1365206400	I've owned this mouse for one year now and I feel I have put it through it's paces. The DeathAdder has performed amazingly well working on practically all surfaces from the standard mouse pad, the couch cushion, my leg, my girlfriends back, etc. It doesn't like light or white surfaces, however.I have dropped this poor mouse repeatedly from 1' to 4' with no issue. This is built to take abuse. Ergonomics are excellent, I can play for hours and feel no hand or wrist strain.A word of advice, I would try and find one on display at a store like Best Buy to see if it fits your hand. It is a bit larger than most and while it fits my hand like a glove, this may not be the case for all people.
4	1365206400	I am a FPS game player, and I think this mouse is really good. However, I have to say that the shipping of this product is really bad, especially for the super saver shipping.It took more than 8 business days for this mouse to arrive at my dorm. The estimate deliver day is Thursday. However, it was late for more than 24 hours. I was so freak out to wait for this mouse.The shipping speed is extremely slowly and inefficient.Also, the quality of this mouse is not good, and the right-click of this mouse doesn't work right now. However, I cannot find any customer service of this mouse.I was so sad.
4	1365206400	I brought this mouse because I am a moderate gamer. The mouse feels great, has a nice finish, a great look, durable and is very responsive. The Razer Synapse program is also very nicely made. However, if you're a moderate gamer (like myself) or a casual computer user, this mouse isn't worth the $50. The mouse does have a DPI of 6400 but in reality you'll only use 1000-2000 DPI in the settings or the cursor will move too quickly. I also don't like the size of the mouse. If you have small hands (like myself), then it'll be very hard to use the 2 buttons the side of the mouse while gaming or doing anything in general. It feels faster to use the keyboard rather than the mouse macro buttons.To sum it up- The mouse is great and responsive but isn't "better" than a $10 mouse other than it's durability and aesthetics if you're a casual gamer. You also will lose some of the mouse's intended "feel" if you have smaller hands.Edit- 2 days after using it I've noticed some lag where i would click somewhere and the cursor would click somewhere below where i clicked. This doesn't happen frequently although the mouse does lag.
3	1365120000	Apparently I don't hold a mouse how I'm supposed to. I hold it between my thumb and my 4th and 5th fingers. Doing that with this mouse is extremely difficult. If it's at a spot where my other two fingers rest comfortably, my fingers slip off the mouse. If it's a spot where I can actually hold it, my other fingers are positioned wrong to press the buttons for how the designer intended and it strains my fingers.I don't like the feel of the plastic. The surface of the mouse is too slippery. It feels well-build other than that. It performs nicely. It just feels awful in my hand. Also, it collects cat hair like my Logitech mouse that it replaced. It's getting relegated.
5	1365033600	If you have ever wished for a mouse that glided smoothly then this is it.  if you have ever wished for a mouse that could be tweaked to move at the slightest effort OR one that did not jump due to your hand twitching from long sessions gaming then this mouse is for you.  if you wished to use this same mouse on a shared PC, one that had folks using the mouse who are not steady-handed as well as folks who are intricately precise with their movements then know that this mouse if for you.  The mouse can be programmed by each user to suit their own needs and saved into profiles.  The profiles also can save your program macros on the 5 easily accessible buttons built on the mouse. Gamers can see it in the darkened gamer room, glows green, but not a shocking bright light, soothing.  The cord is cloth covered and long enough not to have to readjust your desktop closer to the mouse pad in order to use the mouse freely.  I suggest getting the Razer mouse pad to go with this if you are a gamer.  Razer makes some really awesome aluminum mouse pads.  The work perfectly with this mouse.  Only issue I have with this mouse is...if a driver corruption occurs on the mouse, it will not be able to move...you need to have another mouse around to reinstall the drivers for this mouse.
4	1365033600	Just acquired my DA and I find the right mouse button quirky, where even a little pressure is enough to get the button to click down.  Anyone else have this issue?  I love the mouse and the software (unlike the Naos 8200 which I regrettably returned due to problems) but just find the right mouse button a tad too light..... great mouse otherwise.
5	1365033600	It's nice. It fits larger hands well and is comfortable. I wish I could use it at work. The new grips on the side help more than the smooth version
5	1364947200	The weight of the mouse is perfect. Very adjustable &#34;sensitivity&#34; / dpi via the Razer synapse software.  Recommend it, good value.
5	1364947200	Love this mouse, especially paired with the Razer Goliathus mouse pad. I do not use Razers software, I use the built in mouse drivers in Windows 8 and it works beautifully.
4	1364860800	My Review:The Razer DeathAdder is one on the most known and signature mouse. I have the DeathAdder 2013 Edition. It is very ergonomic in terms of Razer's gaming mice, but due to the fact I used theRazer Naga Special Edition - Molten (RZ01-00280500-R3), it feels quite strange in my hands, you have to hold it at a slant, though it actually makes it more ergonomic than it already is, either that or the fact that I have small hands. The DeathAdder is quite big, but it can easily accommodate for even small hands, and comparing to Naga, it has a rougher exterior, causing greater grip wtih the mouse and won't cause too much discomfort. It also uses Synapse 2.0 which I enjoy, and what really is great about it is that the more recent mice, including the Razer DeathAdder 2013, has Mouse Pad calibration, so it senses the liftoff point for your Razer Mouse, this works with all mouse pads, not just Razer Mouse Pads. No mouse I seem to know of have this feature.2013 Edition vs. The Standard:People wonder if there is a difference between the 2013 version and the Standard edition, and in face, there are a few differences, the 2013's mouse wheel having the middle rubber grip and the light surrounding it (though this is mostly appearance-wise), the 2013 has rubber side grips and is "slip resistant", but garners much more sweat for some reason, specifically on the thumb region, the 2013 edition uses 6400dpi 4G Optical Sensor to the Standard's measly 3500 3.5G Infrared Sensor, the 2013 is Synapse 2.0 compatible (though the standard had a firmware upgrade that allowed it to do so), but the  more obvious difference is the color, blue over green.2013 Edition vs. Other Razer Mice:When comparing to other mice that Razer has, is that the DeathAdder is ergonomic, form fitting, and has rubberized grips, similar to the Razer Imperator, and has a greater dpi setting out of most of Razer's Mice, much more in between then the Razer Taipan, a bit more cost-efficient, being a more essential similar to the Razer Abyssus.Razer DeathAdder 2013 vs. Other Gaming Mice:Razer's Mice is infamous for there unreliabilty with some of there products, but there mice seem be much less known, other than the double clicking problem. The DeathAdder has many competition, from theSteelSeries Sensei Laser Gaming Mouse (Grey)(I honestly dislike SteelSeries);Logitech Wireless Gaming Mouse G700;Corsair Vengeance M60 Performance FPS Gaming Mouse (CH-9000001-NA);Mad Catz R.A.T.9 Gaming Mouse for PC and Mac;CM Storm Sentinel Advance II - Gaming Mouse with 8200 DPI Avago Sensor and 128KB Memory (SGM-6010-KLLW1). When comparing to these other mice, the DeathAdder has a  standing with a $55 price tag ($70 in Best Buy), ergonomic form factor, high dpi performance, unique appearance, and excellent naming sense (Only Razer, SteelSeries (Still hate it), and CM Storm, use actual names, and not numbers), the DeathAdder 2013 is the most balanced gaming mouse you could buy.Conclusion:TheRazer Deathadder Infrared Gaming Mouse (RZ01-00151400-R3)was one of the more balanced mice Razer had, it's not the best, but much better than any other gaming mice out there and now with the 2013 edition being released, they just made a much balanced mouse even better.
4	1364860800	The Razer DeathAdder 2013 will be a large improvement from standard mice and you will unquestionably notice a difference if you have been using a normal one up to this point. It is a high quality well built mouse with some interesting functionality with the programmable buttons.
5	1364860800	I hated razer products before this mouse.Pros-Great feel-Smooth track-Tactile response is amazing (coupled with a mechanical keyboard if it doesn't click something is wrong)-Less is more, it doesn't need 35 buttons on it to be a good mouse it's 4 buttons+ mouse wheel is perfect.Cons-None that come to mind
5	1364774400	Hi, I really liked this mouse a lot because of how precise it was, and not to mention the soft ware which allows you to program the buttons on the mouse to change the sensitivity(perfect for sniping)
5	1364774400	Razer DeathAdder 2013 is a great improvement over previous Razer DeathAdder's. It's very fast, beautiful, and feels great in hand with it's all matte finish(including bottom) with textured rubber side grips. Currently playing Battlefield 3 and Fallout 3 GOTY with no problems at all. I highly recommend it over the previous DeathAdder's.
5	1364774400	When I was looking for an ergonomic mouse to use while at my desk, I ran into a review by a fellow developer on a similar mouse by the same manufacturer.  This model was a bit newer and had great reviews so I gave it a shot.  So far it is incredible! Very accurate, comfortable, and stylish.  I highly recommend it and would buy it again in a heartbeat!
5	1364688000	A lot more dpi. Feels the same but has extra grip on the side. Easy on the hand and good for fps gamers. This is good if you planing to have low sensitivity with high dpi to match your gameplay. Feels as if the mouse was paint with sand at first but use it for awhile and it will become your best mouse that you will ever have.
5	1364688000	Quality of mouse is very high. I have no complaints about Razer Synapse, I was able to customize the sensi to my liking and turn off the logo light and didn't get any slowdowns or anything. Great for gaming and precision computer operations.
5	1364601600	This mouse is probably the best gaming mouse I have. Razer makes amazing products and they have not failed me yet, this mouse feels, looks, and functions very well! I would recommend this product to any of my fellow PC gamers.
2	1364601600	This install some spammy looking software on your computer that sits in your task bar and requires a login to store profiles. The buttons wouldn't work right until I installed it. After I installed it, I didn't like the way the buttons felt. I was looking for a high quality left handed mouse, but so far my microsoft uni-hand mouse is performing better than this one. It feels pretty pretentious, the packaging makes it sound like you are joining some secret club and you can just tell all your money is going out the window for &#34;nerd cred&#34;.
5	1364515200	I originally was looking at the rat 9 and 7, but it seemed that it would always start having problems after six months or so. So I bought this along with the razor blackwidow 2013 ultimate keyboard and it has worked flawlessly! I have had it for about a month or so now and My hand is very comfortable; even after hours of gaming it has not gotten tired at all. It doesn't only perform well but it is one of the most comfortable mice I have ever used and it looks really great! I have medium to large hands and it fits really great. I would recommend this to anyone.
5	1364515200	Six years ago I was given, for free, a Razer Diamondback mouse. I would *never* have purchased one on my own. $70 for a MOUSE?!? What were these people smoking?!? But free... free is a price I can get behind! To explain the usage this poor mouse was inflicted, I work in games. So I am constantly on my computer, constantly using programs like 3DS Max, Photoshop, and game editors. Then I would go home and play games on my pc with this mouse. (That's right, I carted the poor thing back and forth to work... for 4 years until I got a Steele Series mouse for free, lol.) I also use two monitors, so having the sensitivity jacked up allows me to move my cursor quickly from one end to the other of my desktop.Recently, my poor little Diamondback got a tad... squeaky. 6 years of what I can only describe as punishing torture for the mouse and he was finally starting to complain. I ordered a new computer for home and decided to finally spring for a really good mouse and keyboard. I chose the DeathAdder for my mouse. Not too many buttons, but a few extra.Like I said, I was very impressed with Razer's products in the past (I had a keyboard and two headsets from them as well, from the same person who hooked me up with the mouse.)I got my DeathAdder in and immediately plugged it in, even though I was still at work. This mouse is AMAZING. Even among Razer products, it's better than the others.Pros-- A matte finish. You can't tell in the pictures very well, but the 2013 version has a slightly matte finish, which actually makes the mouse feel amazing. And after hours of playing in a slightly warm room, my hand and fingers don't slip. It's wonderful.- Smooth mice "feet". Those little bits that are supposed to help the mouse slide better? The ones on here are perfect. I don't think I would have noticed the difference, if I hadn't tried it immediately after using my old mouse at work. But these are so much better than even my recent SS mouse. Moving my cursor across 2 desktops is effortless.- Buttons. The top buttons are the standard amazing Razer design. The thumb ones are great. I really like that they are actually fairly hard to accidentally press, while still being easy enough to hit for gaming.- Wheel. For anyone that uses a mouse wheel, you know how hit or miss these can be. Razer has perfected it as far as I am concerned. It's got dents in the wheel that make it super easy to "grip" with a finger pad, and the motion is nice and mechanical so you scroll in discrete steps.I know I listed pros, but I really don't have any cons. I want to change the color of the light. I wish the cord was a tad longer (though I could see if I had a better pc placement why this would be annoying, lol). But these are nitpicks.So not only do I recommend this mouse, but I also decided to suck it up and buy a second one for work. My poor little Diamondback can rest, while the DeathAdders get to WORK!
5	1364428800	Love this mouse, the DPI is amazing, and the synapse software allows you to customize it for your needs. Would recommend this and any other Razer product to anyone.
5	1364428800	The Deathadder did already have excellent reviews, but with the 2013 version this mouse is just insanely good. It's very precise, very lightweight, it has nice shape, all buttons are extremely well calibrated, and the best part with the 2013 version, there are two good quality rubber grips on both sides of the mouse, this enhances your grip in ways you just cannot experience with any other mouse. Just remember to use with alongside with a good mouse pad, like the Razer Sphex.
4	1364428800	I recommend this product due to its ergonomic shape, so it's very comfortable when you need work a lot of time
5	1364342400	Well I did a lot of digging before I decide to purchase this mouse. I am a gamer I play all sorts of games but most World Of Warcraft and so far the mouse is awsome. It slides it goes it does the things I want to do not have the slightest problem on nothing, as I said so far, but I really hope not even in the future.
5	1364342400	Great product, absolutely love it. Best mouse I have ever owned.Would recommend to everyone.Arrived before expectedvery happy
5	1364342400	I can't say enough about this mouse. Having large hands, it is difficult to find a mouse that I can palm. This is the one.Feel, looks, software, button placement... you couldnt ask for more.I am a loyal Razer customer now.
5	1364256000	I've had the first generation death adder, the 3.5g death adder, and the black edition death adder. This one feels really good. Great buy if you need another mouse. Only down side is that to configure it you have to create an account with razer, which is stupid. But only had to do it once. Once I set the dpi to what i wanted I didn't have to mess with it.
5	1364169600	Best mouse I have used up until now. Very Happy with it. Comfortable, accurate... its all I want in a mouse.Thank you Razer!
5	1364169600	i just recently bought DA2013 model.to be direct, this mouse cursor jumps from a point to another point without even moving it, sometimes. is mine faulty or common?updated: sorry, after the update, the mouse still having problem TILL i changed my Mouse Pad to new surface. all the time my Alienware MousePad has been problem to my mouse, im using leather mousepad, which works perfectly fine!
5	1363996800	Comfortable and sensitive, yet very solid, it slides smoothly, even without mouse pads. You can adapt it for a lot of situations with the customization on synapse (one of the reasons I chose this mouse). I would recommend for gamers who need different set ups for each game.
5	1363996800	This is my first upgrade from a really cheap logitech mouse and I must say I am very happy that I bought this baby. It works great and looks great. Only thing is, it does attract some dust and leaves slight fingerprints, but overall well worth the price.
2	1363996800	I've been a fan of the Imperator but they usually would last only around a year before they start 'double clicking' a lot. I switched to this Deathadder thinking it would be better. Within a few days of usage the pointer would quickly go to a random corner of the screen- but usually upper and lower left corners. It would usually stay on the corner/s for seconds. This is definitely annoying for gaming and everything else. Depending on the game played, the pointer would seemingly disappear to a corner or the point-of-view will keep on turning around fast for at least a few seconds (almost looking like a kaleidoscope in TR :) ).It's been over a month since i purchased this and it's doing it a lot now. In fact the pointer just did it again as i was typing two sentences before this.  :)Other than that problem, this holds up to the imperator (though i still miss the imerator). It's definitely a bit bigger lengthwise. It' feels different at first but it's just a matter of getting used to in my case.Tried to wipe the sensor hole with q-tip to see if that helps. Depending on how this goes on i might need to look around for another mouse.
3	1363910400	There's a lot to love about this mouse.  The weight is perfect, the green lights look cool, the driver includes a ton of options, the rubber on the sides feel really nice and it's about the only mouse I've seen with nice big, well placed, easy to hit side buttons that has finally gotten me to start using them.The problem is it's just not comfortable to use if you like to leave a finger on the middle mouse wheel.  It feels great if you rest your middle finger on the right mouse button, but I've always liked to have all three fingers on all three mouse buttons, and it just feels uncomfortable if you do it like that.  Its just clearly not designed to be used like that. When that is the way I've used mice for years, it's rather hard to change, and having to move a finger back and forth from two different buttons just feels really weird to me at this point.
1	1363910400	Was excited to receive my mouse in the mail yesterday. Got everything out and hooked up, lights came on, everything running good. Then synapse required an update. Since then, my mouse won't turn on on ANY computer.
5	1363824000	I really love this product! It is a great choice gameplayers.I play leagues of legends and this mouse is really good for this game!
5	1363737600	I bought 4 different mouse. Sensei, taipan, feenix, and g9x(my second favorite). The deathadder was by far the best. I have a mix grip between palm and claw and it works both way for me.
3	1363651200	Well, I've had the standard blue 3.5G deathadder for about 6 months, and randomly, it will disconnect itself from the synapse driver.  I contacted Razer about the issue and possibly getting a replacement/refund.  They said, it sounds like faulty wiring and even though it was under a 2 year warranty, to contact the reseller Newegg about the warranty and about replacements/refunds.  I contacted Newegg via Live Chat about the situation, and guess what?  They told me to contact Razer to see if they could help me.  I've never had an issue with Newegg's customer service until tonight.  Everyone's pointing fingers, but no one wants to replace my faulty mouse.  If the mouse works, it is the best.  I guess I just got bad luck on this one.  Ordering a 2013 edition tonight.  Hopefully this one lasts longer than 6 months :/
3	1363564800	A bit small for a palm grip style mouse, but fits nicely regardless. Nice and grippy surface. No onboard memory or buttons for adjusting dpi, but in its basic design it has few faults.Update: The thing broke after about 8 months. The middle mouse button stopped working. Luckily it is within warranty and I am attempting to get it RMA'd.
5	1363478400	Ive always been one to think that if youve used one mouse youve used them all but that is not the case.The click isnt annoying like some mouse clicks can be. Its a nice big mouse too for my hands. The logo has a slow flashing light that I thought would annoy me since it doesnt stay lit but thats really minor and doesnt bother me anymore. Your hand will be over it while using it anyways. The green light in the scroll wheel stays lit the entire time though. The cord is awesome too and is made of like nylon or some sort of material other than the usual plastic cord which makes it look even nicer.The only complaint I have i about the two side buttons. Ive been in the middle of watching a Youtube video or reading an article and Ill accidentally hit one of the side buttons and it will take me back a page. Im sure this can be changed or removed but I havent messed around with the software portion of it really.I also bought the Vespula 2 sided mouse pad and the DeathStalker keyboard from Razer. All products are top of the line and make for a nice looking set up.
5	1363305600	Had the original deathadder from back in 06 and after about 5 years of use the mouse wheel click finally died and it was time for an upgrade. I really like the feel of this mouse compared to even some of the higher end ones so I looked around and saw that razor upgraded the deathadder series once more! So I did some research and low and behold I was in the same boat as a lot of people. So I ordered one and boom, best mouse ever hands down. Not only did Razer make such small changes (like the added rubber grips and matte finish) but also bumped the specs up to 6400 dpi (something I'll like never use) and added a 4g polling sensor. The ladder is what makes this an amazing product, instant response time without the slow inaccurate feeling after messing around with the old settings on the previous model. No this product hits all the high points and at 50 bucks it's a steal. Highly recommend it.
5	1363219200	The Razer Deathadder 2013 mouse is a great mouse for precise aiming in games.  I am already feeling a huge difference.  The two buttons for the thumb are also very handy for certain situations in games.  Great mouse with great shipping.  Feel of the mouse is a nice hard more plastic feel. Heavy duty and ready to go.
5	1363219200	About getting this mouse but it is by far the best mouse I have used and ive had copperheads, rat 7, mx 518. *MUST BUY
5	1363132800	The mouse is great nice size fits great in the hand and a nice amount of cable and quick response time.
5	1363046400	Best mouse yooooooooooooooooooooo. Love the glowing Razer logo. It feels extremely comfortable when putting your hand on it! The side grip is fkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkking awesome. OMG! Please buy it!
2	1363046400	This mouse is pretty good. It looks cool for sure. The quality seems middle of the road, time will tell how long it lasts. Ergonomically I feel like the back end slopes down too quickly, and thus doesn't seem like I can ever get a good grip on it. Other mice I've used have a higher back end that pushes up against your palm, and it adds significantly to the grip, like you're holding a baseball. For example: [ ... ]. I didn't realize this facet of mice until I started using this Razer DeathAdder. See this image: [ ...] there is a bunch of dead space between your palm and the mouse. The buttons on the side are somewhat chincy. The mouse weel is ok, not metal. Overall, I feel a little underwhelmed by my purchase. That's unfortunate because I had a few other Razer products in mind. Perhaps I'll go alienware next time.
3	1362873600	the product is amazing, but the price dropped 6 dollars after i bought it!!!!!!! so i kinda mad about the price drop
5	1362873600	I've had the first version of the deathadder for about 3 years and I loved it. This is a great revision of the mouse. It feels much better in the hand with the added rubber grips and the new texture of the mouse is, in my opinion, better than the old. Love it.
4	1362700800	Ok, I am a geek. A PC geek and a gamer geek. I was looking for a replacement of my old Razer Mouse Krait. The first problem I have with this mouse it's the size. So if you have small hands like me, it is hard to get accustomed.I bought the 2013 version and after reading many bad reviews here of 1 and 2 stars, I decided to give it a try.Let me start to congratulate Amazon for a excellent deliver system. I place the order on the 26th of Feb 2013 and I got it on the 7th of March, 5 days before the estimated time of arrival. So, in that aspect, I am happy. Delivered by hand on my door, no postal office BS.The Mouse:Remember this is the 2013 edition, and the mate finish is great for me that spend hours playing. No finger tips on this baby. I had my Krait for over 5 years, it served me well, it was a basic mouse, nothing fancy, but it is a small compared with the DeathAdder.Before buying this one, I was kind hooked on the Mamba, I love the looks, but, many people say Razer is for looks. In a way, I agree, but when you build your PC and mod it, it is for looks, so Razer fits this well. What made me change mouse was that my Krait left button was starting to fail, or doing double clicks, remember I had it for like 6 years. I am a intense gamer of RTS and MMO's so there is a lot of clicking involved.I would give 5 stars to it, if it was not the Synapse that you are forced to use, create am account or you cannot do anything to the mouse.Still, many problems people had in the past might already be solved by Razer.I un-install the Krait software, reboot, and plug in the DeathAdder. It started working, the lights came on, so everything was ok. Then the Synapse gave me a turn off. I was just expect a similar software like the Krait but improved, instead I had to download a generic software. At least works, it detected my mouse, I can configure the 2 side buttons, and for that matter, any button on the mouse, it can create profiles where it can be accessed from the little icon on the taskbar.It warned me there was a update to the software, which I did and then it recommended me to update the firmware of the mouse since most people were complaining about some clicking problems.This was written on the first day I got my mouse. I will try to keep this updated on the next months to see if anything went wrong.So, in resume:Pros:Good ergonomics, cool touch with the Razer icon fading in and out, and the color on the wheel. The grip is good if you have a bigger hands still the mouse is comfortable enough and you just need to adapt.Cons: Synapse, sorry Razer, but what you think is best is not necessary what we gamers think is best, so do not give the BS (for gamers by gamers).I would pay a bit more for the mouse if I could make the logo light stay always on instead of fading in and out, or completely off. I would not matter also, that I could change the cooler to red, or blue or yellow or something like that.The mouse also is a bit high in my opinion, but that might be because i do not have big hands, still the position thanks to the ergonomics is not bad.Overall, it's a good buy (for now, we will see in 3 months or so), the rubber on the sides is great for grip, still the 2 shortcut buttons on left side could be a bit lowered and a bit pulled to the back where the hand palm sits. I think if the buttons moved like half centimeter they were in the perfect position. People with big hands might disagree.Not a mouse for kids, thats for sure. But still a good mouse. Try, if you do not like it, return it to Amazon and get other like a logitech or something similar.
5	1362441600	I'm left handed so my options are very slim for left handed people. This mouse has a nice balance of weight, and speed. I have actually have to turn it down some because a mere twitch would send the mouse screaming across the screen. I also like the features to turn off the LED's if wanted. all in all, it is a great mouse and I hope it will last me a long time. I have gone through 3 logitech g series so far I'll update any changes.
5	1362441600	We run very frequent giveaways at RyuLAN.com and this is the mouse most in demand by the giveaway contest participants.It's an ergonomic shape which is great for some, and is shaped for right handed players. It has a great following in the competitive FPS scene, and has been arguably the most widely used mouse in Counter-Strike for some time now. If you like the shape, it's hard to go wrong with this mouse.
5	1362268800	The performance of this mouse is exactly as advertised. I used to own a Logitech G9x, the deathadder feels weightless in comparison, and glides effortlessly across my mouse pad. Combined with a good form, it feels like the mouse isn't even there when I'm using it. It feels like a natural extension of my hand, it's a very pleasant feeling; however, it can take some getting used to.The buttons on the mouse are a lot more sensitive than what I'm used to, registering a click with even the slightest press upon them. The result effectively makes the mouse a lot less fatiguing to operate, but does make the initial few weeks of using it more difficult.It does what I want it to, and it does it well.
4	1362268800	I purchased this mouse because I also recently purchased the Razer 2013 keyboard that matches it. I'm satisfied with both pieces of hardware, but the Synapse 2.0 software that allows you to use some features is a buggy piece of crap. The software actually caused the keyboard to stop functioning until I uninstalled it. The Synapse software is not required, but without it you can't use the custom binding M1 thru M5 keys on the keyboard, or control some customization features of the mouse and keyboard. Disappointing.One thing I like about the mouse and keyboard is the excellent quality of the wires. Both are covered in a durable braided sheath, rather than the rubber coating on virtually everything else you buy today. The mouse is a good size for my hand and has rubber grips on the sides.
5	1362182400	This is the greatest and smoothest mouse I have ever owned, and it feels great in the hand too, especially for big hands.
5	1362096000	Love the mouse! My first gaming mouse ever also lol. I love how I got it for a good price used. Came with the box, manuals, and even the original razer stickers! It was like a new mouse in working order. Just used. Thanks!
5	1362096000	not only does it work as promised, I just love the sweat resistant coating.  usually my other mice get ruined because of my sweaty hands, but this one looks almost brand new
1	1362096000	Horrible, simply horrible. I used the mouse for 2 days and it was okay. After that I don't know what happened  but the mouse became completely dysfunctional. Asked experts and friends about the problem and all of them were as clueless as I was.
5	1362009600	My original Death Adder 3.5G was dying so I bought the new 2013 edition and its amazing! The customization goes very far with Razer Synapse. I highly recommend this mouse to who ever is looking for precision control and to increase their gaming abilities.
5	1362009600	Insight on myself: I am always personally a sucker for gimmicky, cool looking, gadgets, versus what is proven better. This mouse is my personal start in going future-proof/striding away from the gimmicks. You can ask the 'me' of 3 months ago, and I would've said I wanted the Ouroboros mouse because I am personally a fan of both Synapse 2.0 and the R.A.T. mice. But Razer had no such option at the time of the debut of the R.A.T. series so I just bought them instead. The fault of mine there is that I had stuck with the R.A.T. 9. the wireless: horrible. 1 dud battery (to which customer support was kind enough to send me 2 replacements, meaning 3 usable batteries, but after months of use died out slowly leaving me with one again.). The rat series is not so bad, But I just don't really like the look and feel of the software. I'm not saying everyone should go make their software green and black, but I do like the more straight-forwardness and user-friendliness of Razer's configurator software. Then they debuted Synapse 2.0 fan instantly. After reading piles of reviews of the Ouroboros just completely failing, DPI locking/changing, squeeking plastic, despite being painful to read/listen to, and wanting to love it before even owning one, I had decided to just pick up a friendly deathadder. Now onto the review:I think I should try a Pro/Con here:Pros:+For starters: this thing fits perfectly. I don't know much about hand sizes but i'll say my hands are small (on piano I can play octaves and BARELY octave+1/2 note)+I hear this itteration, 2013, has rubber grips as opposed to previous generations. Which I find to be a great touch leading into.+surprisingly no pinky drag. The thing I liked about the RAT series is that it had pinky rest/gliders/wings. but i found it offputting that there was one for my thumb as well(which was the appeal of the Ouroboros), because i lift my mouse with my thumb.+ERGONOMICS again. it really is perfectly molded. I completely see why people say they buy it and stick with it for years.+Braided cable: EVERYTHING should have these by now. LOVE IT.Cons: (will try to make some up, but determine them however you please as they may not be a con.)-Auto profile switching is a little on the slow side. I have a Nostromo with the (STILL[when is the synapse2.0 update coming!?]) non-synapse 2.0 software, and it switches profiles half as long. I WOULD say keymaps are instant, but then again this mouse doesn't really have keymaps.-ALSO synapse 2.0: I like synapse 2.0. I don't see what everyone is hating about on it. I don't mind the user data thing, or the always-on (with offline option) connection. BUT apparently only a select few peripherals get to have the Joystick Input option. the Nostromo, and Orbweaver both have this, where you can have a single key replicate a controller (xbox360) button. This mouse doesn't have that, but I can probably work around it.-green. really? i mean, I'm picking up a matching green blackwidow ultimate soon but this is pretty ridiculous. not even multi-color. my nostromo is blue. then again, i'm only trying to be matching and nitpicky.-maaaaaaybe on the small side. I'm highly sure this is due to my odd grip coming from a RAT9. my grip is quite odd: I guess it can be sumerrized(?)  as fingertip grip. grip and point my mouse with the inner-tip of my thumb, and the bending joint closest to last digit of the ring finger. the pinky gives a nice curve around the butt of the mouse, and my index/middle fingers are claws rounded in, and i move the mouse by rotating it on my wrist. that said. i feel that there is a small gap between my palm and the mouse. which you might think is odd considering i just explained having a psuedo claw/fingertip grip. but the RAT had a nice elevated back option which let me have my weird grip AND rest my palm on it.-could use more buttons...? I honestly have a hard time trying to come up with real legitimate cons for this mouse because it is wonderful. While gaming, the cons I listed don't even come up as concerns. the sensor doesn't cut out and act wacky like the RAT does, so these cons are just my nitpickiness coming about as i can't have everything perfectly exactly the way i want which is to be expected. But i still believe in Synapse 2.0, and hope to see it become way smoother in the future.I hope I was helpful.
1	1361664000	The product worked like a beast until a month of use, and it literally didnt work at all after that. plug it in, doesnt turn on, windows doesnt recognize. i am an expert on computers, and this is an issue with razers drivers and a bad connection in the mouse.
3	1361664000	This is a great mouse, I've gotten so used to right handed mouse that I prefer the button set up on a right handed mouse, this mouse's software allows you to create your own profile and assign the buttons for different tasks or hotkeys.  The only down side to this mouse, (and I'm not sure if it's the software or my laptop) when I open my laptop and it comes out of hibernation, the mouse buttons are back to default and you have open the software select a different profile and then reselect your profile to get the buttons where you want them.
5	1361577600	Coming from a Logitech MX518, followed by Logitech G9x and G500, the Razer DeathAdder 2013 is actually the better mouse, especially for games. The G9x is too squarish and too flat to use for prolonged periods of time and the G500 has a mouse wheel that clicks in 3 directions, has too many buttons to physically use and does not follow the natural curve of the 4th finger, at least for my hand. For an Unreal Tournament player like me these features were a major problem. The DeathAdder is simple (5 buttons), very comfortable and tracks ultrasmoothly on a Razer Goliathus pad. The LMB and RMB feel very responsive (G500 LMB had a "double" click feeling). The shape is suitable for bigger hands, though the mouse is relatively small, and the left and right sides curve naturally with the thumb and 4th finger. The scroll wheel feels high quality and the materials are all top notch. Some very thoughtful engineering went into this mouse.The mouse has lights that I don't care for but they can be switched off using the Synapse software. The software is intuitive when setting up the mouse. It's nice that there is the option to calibrate the mouse for a specific Razer mouse pad, however the only caveat is that the mouse pad selection is not saved when the computer is turned off an on again.Overall this is a great mouse that is highly recommended for general use and gamers in particular. I purchased a 2yr replacement warranty because I use the mouse daily and aggressively in games and some reviewers here found that previous editions would start to show signs of wear after a while, so I hope it's not needed.
4	1361491200	I love this mouse especially with my relatively large hand it is very ergonomic and serves very well. However the downsides is that you cannot change the color of the light, or intensity. I have to say the logitech revolution beats this mouse in nearly all aspects so if you're debating between the two, being an owner of both, I'd recommend the logitech. HAPPY GAMING!!
5	1361491200	PROS:high precision in my games, specially starcraft2;fits very well in my hand;buttons click more sensitive in 2013 version;holds better at fingers in 2013 version;NO CONS
4	1361404800	I have owned the Orochi and just recently bought the Mamba after this. Loving the mamba the best but the deathadder 2013 is what I had originally planned to use as my main mouse however, I was used to using my Orochi on my brown table cloth on the kitchen counter and it worked wonders (as does the mamba on anything I test it on) the Deathadder fails in this category and on a lot of surfaces. The new type of tracking from the previous years means you now need a solid flat surface or a mousepad for it to even recognize movements.
4	1361404800	Background:I've used the 1800 dpi death adder for at least 3 years until the mousewheel started having problems..Then I bought an Corsair M60 and I dominated in FPS! The only problem I had with this mouse was that I often found myself feeling stress in my fingers because I'd stretch my fingers to use it. If I had a bigger hand I would have definitely kept using it. Next, I have tried the sensei fnatic and I must say, coming from a deathadder/M60's grip to sensei, it was a no go. Too small and too light was all I can say (not to mention their LEDs did not really light white and the mousewheel had problems).Pros:Anyways back on track. There was no awkward transition; as soon as I opened the box and plugged in the computer, I was back to insta-headshotting. The feel, the grip, this mouse was just meant for me. The LED schematics really make the mouse look professional. I feel like I can bring this to work with no embarrassment (Too bad it's not blue anymore). As for the mouse click response, I'm not sure if they thought about this but the click is much less resistance so it is easier to spam the buttons but much easier to accidentally click if you're usually resting your fingers on the buttons.Cons:The only reason I knocked off a star to this dreamy mouse is because of the design of the grip. First of all, I am a big fan of rubberized grip; it keeps the your hand cool and it feels comfy to me. However, for the 2013 design, they decided to go with a sandpaper-like grip plastic. While I can understand where they are coming from (helps get remove the slipperiness of sweaty palms per say), I definitely miss the rubbery soft feel of the 1800dpi version. As for the sides, it's comfy and makes the mouse feel like a $70 dollar mouse (I paid full retail). The downside to this grip is that I notice that even for my hands (non-sweaty over a long period of time), there is moisture forming at my thumb. The reason for this is most likely because the grip retains thumb heat and over time it will make your thumb feel like it is about to sweat.Known bugs and fixes:There was also a talk about spin bug and it seems the new FW released near end of January has fixed it (I haven't experienced it since the update).There still is a lift off distance 'bug' where it cannot be controlled by the synapse 2.0 software, but the best solution for this is the clear tape method over the sensor(check out the customer picture gallery). Trust me, you'll want to do this. It does not affect performance.Overall, with the bug fixes and ignoring my bias towards rubberized surfaces, this mouse is a slick professional looking mouse with proper aesthetics and functionality and enough for me to urge me to post a long review. I recommend!
5	1361232000	The razer deathadder is a great mouse itself already. In this 2013 edition, it added a few more changes to this mouse. When ever for FPS, RPGS and other types of game, this is the ultimate mouse to choose.
1	1361232000	First of all this is my 4th Razer mouse, I always loved my Razers even thou the last one imperator failed me after just 9 months I was sure that it was just bad luck... So I ordered 2 Razer Deathadder 2013 for me and my brother...It was the biggest mistake I have ever made. I installed the Synapse 2.0 and guess what it didn't see the mouse. I read the forums, tried installing updates of every device I have and nothing. I contacted the support and they asked me useless questions (did you install the latest version of synapse 2.0 (even thou I explained what I did step by step))... The mouse works fine on my laptop so I figured I would do a clean format and try... I spent about 10 hours just trying to make the mouse work and nothing. Clean windows, all updates and nothing, nada!The support should be trying to find out whats wrong and help me but instead they said you can always return the mouse! AMAZING solution guys congratz.... When I told them I wasn't in US anymore and that wasn't a solution this was their reply &#34;Hello there,We don't provide international warranty for our products.&#34;I can't believe a company like Razer can hire people this senseless... I am disappointed and I will never buy a single Razer product from this point on. And I will try making everyone I know, know this because after spending 75$ on a mouse we deserve better software, support and customer relations!
1	1361145600	The mouse was working fine for 3 weeks but one day just stop working...Since the razor support team says that is a generic response, I'll ask for a refund."Thank you for contacting the Razer Store.I'm really sorry to hear about your issue with your Razer DeathAdder mouse.I know this is a generic response but I have found it very helpful to customers.Our knowledge base can usually help find a solution".I will recommend to not buy this mouse since the generic response is to fail.
5	1361059200	This is the first Deathadder I have purchased. It works flawlessly, is extremely precise, and is lightweight. Most definitely an upgrade over my old Logitech.
5	1361059200	Improving something that's already the best can be a hard task.  But Razer, defiantly came through with this mouse. The few improvements were just enough. The new laser and added new rubberized grips was the only thing it needed. Great job Razer and thank you Amazon for the amazing service!
1	1360972800	The latest driver software from razer requires an account and use of a cloud service for changing any of the key mapping, lighting, sensitivity, etc.  It also makes a persistent icon on my menu bar in os x whether I want it or not.On top of that, it continually forgets my settings for lighting (turning the LED's back on even though I explicitly turn them off in my profile).I understand that some people may want the cloud functionality, but making it required  is incredibly frustrating to someone who wants a simple control panel without the hassle of yet another online account.
5	1360886400	Razer was already my mouse of choice and this one sealed the deal. You can't get a better mouse. Bravo!
5	1360800000	Razer makes some of the best computer equipment out there and they have great support.  I am excited to buy one of their keyboards next!
5	1360800000	A must for every gamer that loves the color green and needs a quality mouse that'll last and look awesome.
5	1360800000	I was a little hesitant to order the 2013 edition but let me say that I'm glad I did.Ergonomics: The rubber grips on the side are a HUGE improvement. It is still a Deathadder so the shape is still the same, but the changes to the sides really do make a difference to how well you can grip it. Ive used my friends Deathadder 3.5G so I feel that I can make an apt comparison.Feel: The new, grippier, matte finish is awesome and the rubber on the scroll wheel is also a nice touch. Love the braided cable. Seems Strong and durable.Response: The tracking is perfect. I haven't used it on any razer pad or gaming grade but it still yields excellent results. The new 6400 DPI optical sensor is legitPROS: Sweet looks. Uber Premium feel: Nice Response: Rubber grips are the best. Definite improvement to the older DeathAdders.CONS: Synapse can be a little iffy on CERTAIN computers, not all! Its an awesome program when it works. It feels SLIGHTLY bulbous but I have large hands so it doesn't really bother me. Cable can become twisted fairly easily if you travel with it.Buy this mouse!!!!! And feel free to ask any questions[...]
5	1360713600	Smoothest and most accurate mouse I have ever had.. and I have had a lot!  I use it for working with images in Photoshop and some light gaming...
5	1360540800	This is the best mouse I have ever used. Usually there is some feature that I am not 100% comfortable with when I get a new mouse, but this mouse has nothing of the sort.Pros:- The surface of the mouse is a matte/textured plastic. Previous Razer mice have had a thin rubber like coating that peeled off easily. This plastic feels solid, the texture helps to provide a solid grip vs the usual glossy/slippery feel of Logitech mice.- The buttons are not too easy or too hard to click. Logitech mice have buttons that require a harder press to click, and some Razer mice in the past have had flimsy buttons that move around and were too easily clicked. This mouse is just right.- The wheel turns smoothly, but not so smoothly that you can't feel the notches. On Logitech mice, the wheel feels tight like a light switch when you turn it. I believe this rigidity was an overcompensation to ensure that the wheel never turned when you press the wheel button, but it was overkill. On the DeathAdder 2013 the wheel button can easily be pressed without turning the wheel, they have found a great balance.- The soft rubber side grips are great additions. I didn't think I would enjoy having rubber grips like this on a mouse but I do. They are also perfectly positioned. I use what I would call a combination of palm and claw grip and have large hands. The height and size of the mouse are perfect.- Braided fiber cable to prevent any damage is always nice.- The rubber grip where the wire connects to the mouse seems to be stronger than previous Razer mice. It holds the wire steady. I could be imagining things, but I feel like this is preventing any feeling of wire drag on the mouse.- It looks cool.
1	1360540800	Just use for 2minitues then its break, i don't why its suck. Really bad mouse, and it look like used i order for new mouse !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2	1360454400	This mouse seemed great. Read positive reviews, looked good in the pictures, and most importantly was left handed (hard to find!). I ordered it and it promptly arrived, plugged it in and Windows7 picked it up and it just worked. Great. It feels great, easy to configure, works perfectly. The side thumb buttons are nicely positioned. The whole mouse is very light which makes for very easy mousing.Flash forward maybe 2-3 months. The scroll wheel has stopped working. When I scroll down sometimes it will scroll down 1 and then scroll up 3. Vice versa for scrolling up. Sometimes when I scroll it works fine, but then after a few seconds goes into the rapidly jumping around thing again. Very frustrating. I googled the problem and apparently in this particular model it is a not uncommon problem. For reference, I did not abuse this mouse in any way nor was it heavily used - principally for a gaming machine that sees a few hours of play a week.PRO: Looks great, very lightweight, nice button layout, left handed.CON: Scroll wheel became completely useless after 2-3 months.
1	1360454400	You must create an online, Razer Synapse account to be able to configure this mouse AT ALL.So just to clarify: in an age where every other high end mouse manufacturer usually offers some tiny amouny of "onboard memory" so you can use the mouse WITHOUT having special software installed on the machine you're using, and WITHOUT needing to provide a valid e-mail address, Razer doesn't.The worst part of this is the justification of "they need the cloud based solution because gamers are requiring the ability to store more and more profiles etc etc etc"  Look Razer, that's BS and you know it. Adding internal memory would cost maybe...what...1 cent or so? Even if that argument DID hold water, why not make the mouse software usable without an account, but require an account IF the user wants to use the cloud based storage?I have enough passwords and logins in my life to remember. The idea that I need another one to use a mouse is outright laughable. And the very obvious marketing lie they wrap the reasoning in is outright insulting.And the real shame is that the mouse isn't that bad. The one I received had some weird scroll wheel clicking, but the design and accuracy or the mouse felt pretty great. But that software...ugh. It doesn't even WORK properly half the time! I'm not exaggerating when I say I've already had to shut down Synapse in the task manager and re-open it because it wouldn't open the configuration screen, or when I did the "calibrate surfaces" thing, I followed the instructions, and the mouse suddenly wouldn't track anymore (btw, for any readers thinking its because I need a "higher quality surface", I'm using Razer's own brand new Invicta mouse pad). The solution? Unplug and re-connect the mouse. Then it...works? Why? I have no clue. (Oh yea, one more tiny question: if the software that requires a login is there "to keep everything optimized and updated", why hasn't Razer added their own new mousepads in the mouse pad selection area? Seems like a big oversight to not even include your own product when you've been selling it for over a month).Here's my review: don't buy a product from a company that blatantly lies to you, requires you to make an account to use a MOUSE, makes products with questionable build quality (its bad when there's a stigma surrounding your product like Razer has), and has poor support, who requires you to always be running software that, despite being released for several months now, still seems to have the tendency to lock up, require forced shutdowns, or otherwise doesn't work smoothly.Especially considering how many equally viable or better alternatives exist on the market. I hope Razer gets their act together.  =\
5	1360281600	I was really happy with this mouse it is very high quality and arrived in good time, considering I live in Australia but it was very quick and arrived on time
4	1360195200	Past mice: generic microsoft mouse, Saitek Cyborg R.A.T. 5(experienced OSU user)* Perfect for medium-sized hands palm user* Amazing texture and simplistic shape* Perfect software, easy to navigate and make macro's/profiles* Truly perfect for fast clicking (i play OSU, I can click twice as fast with this mouse compared to the RAT 5 because its click depression is smaller)-Right mouse button is lower than the left making it awkward if you press the middle mouse button with your index finger (you have to lift your index finger up quite high to reach the top )-Scroll wheel is cheap plastic-Bottom right hand side sticks out too much for claw user-No dpi profile switch to change sensitivity (driver takes a while to load at startup even with an SSD, so you have to wait a bit to change profile/sensitivity-Not worth $70 (the high dpi is never used/makes no noticeable difference, nothing significant changed from previous models)
5	1360195200	Easy to use plug and play needed a small driver update..Its great!awesome using it with an old school game like Diablo 2 or COD 4 Modern warfare to new games like Skyrim or Borderlands 2I reviewed plenty of the high DPI mice before choosing this one &#34;because it looks cool&#34; and am glad I did!
4	1360108800	Frankly, when I'm shopping for a mouse I tend to feel forced to be extremely choosy because I'm left handed, and perhaps I'm arrogant but I refuse to believe that I should have to accept an "ambidextrous" mouse of cheap quality just because its more convenient for the bean counters. I find it simply unbelievable that the vast majority of mouse manufacturers fail in the extreme to offer a left handed version of some very impressive products. So, when I happened across this product, I was elated and felt (and still feel) that it's imperative to support the idea of having a left hand version, as well as, a right hand version vs. taking a short cut of so called "ambidextrous" as most of the manufacturers do.Having said that, my experience with this particular product (which I still use), has had some turbulence. My wife also uses a left hand mouse, so we purchased a mouse for me at first to try out, and it worked very well (and it still works well). However, when we bought the same model for my wife, she had to call customer support as her mouse had not only a weird vibration to it but also a heat issue, which we still have no idea as to what was causing it. Customer support for Razer definitely tried to come to her aid by sending us a new mouse. We were impressed as they paid the entire thing including the shipping with very little questions and/or hassle.Unfortunately, after a few months of working well, this mouse developed a very annoying double-click sensitivity issue that she found impossible to negate as she's an author and works with Word daily. By that time she decided that she simply had to shop elsewhere.So, it is very possible that I simply "lucked out" when purchasing this, however, I've been using this mouse since I bought it, and I have to admit that if you happen to buy a mouse that's not defective, I love it. Perhaps if the concept is supported more, then they'll put more money towards quality assurance on this? I really don't know. What I do know, is that the mouse I received has a very good feel to it thanks to some sort of gamer quality coating, I thoroughly enjoy being able to use the mouse exactly as a right handed person without having to reconfigure the computer settings (although the supplied program does allow for more personalized choice for gaming). Oh yes, the lighting as well as the durable feel of the cord is also very cool.I really would love to offer this product a five star rating, however, I would be remiss if I didn't take my wife's completely contrasting and disappointing experience into account. Fortunately, Razer's better than average customer support does allow me to rate this product higher, as they did what they could, and were very professional about it.
5	1360022400	I got this mouse back in 2010 to play BFBC2 and other FPS games, well I logged over 1000 hours of gaming, and that's just in game, not counting the thousands of hours I spend browsing the web, programming and doing schoolwork. It finally broke, the left button no longer holds down so I cannot drag and drop anything unless I crank the button down with a few pounds of force. Now this may or may not have been because I opened the mouse up and soldered my own lights in it, so I will still give it 5 stars because it is the best mouse I've ever used. It is so comfortable and way more sensitive than anyone will ever need. I mainly play FPS games and this thing excels at it. It will glide the crosshair right on top of enemies heads easier than you will ever imagine. I used a ball mouse before I got this mouse because I couldn't find a laser mouse that gave me the same precision and comfort.The mouse is made out of this rubbery grip that just feels so awesome, and it hasn't gone away in the couple years I've had it. For 60 bucks you get a lot of use out of it, and mine may have lasted forever but I did void the warranty by taking it apart so I can't blame razer. I can't wait to get their 2013 edition though, and see all the improvements!
5	1359936000	I had the prior version and the 2013 comes with a some welcome upgrades:- side rubber for better grip (both sides!)- rough (sandpaper like) texture on entire mouse (again improved grip - no more sweaty hand issues)- wheel mouse lighting (a nice flashy bonus)- more DPI (I use only 400dpi for graphics use on a 27" monitor but has a ton of headroom for you dpi freaks.)Ergonomics are really perfect.I was getting some index finger pain from all day computer use (age is creeping up on me) and the mouse feel just right - not too curves and high and no too flat (was using a logitech mx310 - very old mouse but had a good feel in the hand but was ambidextrous, and not so ergonomic).Nice and lightweight (no thanks wireless!) and glides... REALLY GLIDES!  I used a X-trac ripper XL mouse pad.
5	1359936000	Being a Fan of Logitech mice for many years I was reluctant to try something else to replace my Logitech MX518 gaming mouse but when I started to have troubles with the mouse card where it entered the mouse itself (USB disconnect any time the mouse cord was moved significantly) I was looking more durable.  I had heard good and bad reports of Razer Mice and thought I would try one out despite calls of problems with their customer service and issues with their software updates.  Mouse card is much more flexible than the standard stiff inflexible PVC jacketed cord of traditional mice.  Very nice flexible mouse cord which helped my mouse installation - old one was way too stiff that affected game play at times.  Installed the software and downloaded driver updates and actually had a firmware update for the mouse itself.  Process took awhile to complete - install driver - download driver updates - then agree to and download/install mouse firmware.Much more responsive than my Logitech MX518 mouse - I turned off the lighted mouse wheel and Razer logo on the mouse as this seem to cause problems with my mouse (maybe power draw problem with my USB 2.0 port on the back of my Asus P6T motherboard).
5	1359849600	I've had all versions of the DeathAdder and I will say the new 2013 is by far the most incredible thing I've touched. Not only is it comfortable, but the control and speed is outstanding. They simply improved something that was already great. I do wish there was some customization in terms of color - as the new one is now green versus the dark teal/blue; though it's purely cosmetic. The grip and traction on the scroll is fantastic, the click is milliseconds faster than it's previous models.
5	1359763200	This is my first gaming mouse purchase and have enjoyed the decision so far. The movement is smooth and accurate. The response time for clicking is amazingly fast as well. Only time will tell how well it last. If anything changes I'll be sure to make note of it.
5	1359590400	I have owned multiple Deathadders. I had the original for a few years, and I have the Guild wars edition. the Deathadder feels so good in your hand. If you are familiar with any of the previous Deathadder versions then all you really need to know about this mouse is that It feels just a good as all of the others with its design. But the main thing that caught me off guard were the soft rubber spots on the sides. I originally did not think that they were a big selling point.. But after using the mouse for a few hours I fell in love with them.The New Sensor makes the mouse work on most surfaces. I so far have used it on a variety of surfaces including high gloss. The mouse doesn't hesitate at all.  For the cost. this mouse is well worth it. I would buy it again if given the choice, And yes I would definitely recommend this to any of my friends looking for a nice higher end mouse!
4	1359331200	Been using this for over a year now, one of the side thumb buttons has started to stick. This was causing Win 7 to become unresponsive because it thought I was holding down what was essentially the &#34;page forward&#34; key it was bound to. I couldn't figure this out for the longest time until I accidentaly found out it was the button simply sticking. Pressing hard on the button resolves the issue for a day or two.Otherwise, solid mouse, I'll probably buy another if this one dies on me.
5	1358985600	Dear fellow gamers ,this is a review for the latest mouse in Razer's Deathadder series .If You have never owned a DA before , or You just want to replace your old one , buy this one without hesitation .When I heard that Razer would release a new DA my first thought was that it was just another marketing trick to make a quick profit , but this model really IS a far cry from the old one .I owned the 3.5 G Deathadder before and I had several problems with it :There was quite a lot of play in the right click and the side buttons which doesn't sound like a huge problem ,but it was hard to ignore .Apart from that the device would suddenly stop working every few days and I had to unplug it and plug it back in , in order to turn it on again.Also the mouse overall felt quite cheap .The 2013 Deathadder has various important improvements :The sensor has been replaced by a 6400dpi 4G Optical Sensor but I don't think that really matters to most gamers .The scroll wheel is flatter and more responsive than the old one and it is a DREAM to use !Same thing goes for the left and right click and even the side buttons . They don't seem as flimsy as in the old one .The matt surface is a little bit rougher and in combination with the rubber side grips the mouse really feels like an extension of your hand .This model feels so sturdy that it makes the 3.5 G feel like a cheap fake , it's honestly that much of a difference !So if You personally take your game seriously I would make the investment and buy this version , it's definitely worth it .
1	1358812800	When you load up the software and try to swap default button assignments, it will say that it applied but it won't work.Example, you want to swap button 1 and button 2 from menu to click.  You do that, hit apply and nothing will take.So for us odd left handed folks that want to use button 1 to click and button 2 for menu, you are out of luck.Horrible
5	1358726400	this one is pretty good and I enjoy this very well. and quick shipment. and very good using experience. very good for me.
1	1358467200	The product was ordered twice and did not seem to work. I do not know what is wrong with the 2013 but now I have paid return shipping for something that I couldn't use.
5	1358380800	Razer DeathAdder 2013 Essential Ergonomic Gaming Mouse is one of the best mouses I have used for FPS games and other games like League of Legends. Mouse is very comfortable for long gaming sessions. Light enough to move across the mouse pad fluently but heavy enough that it isn't sliding all over the place. Accurate and precise for all the games I have put it through sof ar. Also matches well with the Razer BlackWidow 2013 that I have since they both light up green.
5	1358380800	I have a 3.5G edition Deathadder and a 4g edition Imperator, they are both great mouses.But the new Deathadder combined all the great designs from them and become the best mouse ever!The new surface dose not looks as cool as the previous edition, but it is much more durable. I don't need care about the scratches any more!
4	1358294400	To my knowledge this is the only left hand gaming mouse out there and if there was more competition I might dock it another star.  The design and build are fine, nothing especially out of the ordinary for a gaming mouse, but the ergonomic curve for the left hand is quite pleasant for longer gaming sessions.  The problem revolves around the fact that the drivers for this mouse (maybe other razer mice as well) are very problematic.I've been using this model for over 5 years and in that time there's been a slew of driver related issues (not allowing your screen saver to ever activate was among one of the less annoying) but the current release sometimes will crash necessitating a reboot if you want to keep using your mouse.  This often happens in game and has led a lot of users to assume it has something to do with a memory leak associated with registering clicks.  For clarification a search will reveal this problem (and the screensaver one from some years back) across a wide range of hardware, it's quite clearly a problem on Razer's end.So in conclusion, good mouse, but you may find yourself raging in a LoL match at some point when the mouse refuses to respond.
2	1358208000	The process of getting a driver is ridiculous.Why do I need to login at all for drivers or config changes?Pretty disappointed overall.
5	1358121600	Yep, its that good! take something that is already very good, and make it better, and you will get the 2013 version.
5	1357948800	Amazing i got this for my son and he loves it. Recomend any of thes products to any gaming fan
5	1357948800	i've had this thing for about 5 years still works perfectly fine i don't know if i've had good luck with it i've also had two razer carachis headsets with absolutely nothing wrong with them reason i had two was cause i refunded one for gas money and got a pos little 15$ mic from best buy i missed the sound they made cause they were awesome i never noticed but they were open ear prolly why they sounded so good but way too much leakage people would stare at me cause id have metal blaring :p anyways back to the mouse works perfect still and its way past due for a new one as long as you dont abusae it should be fine i have seen another one that had a defect and the lights went like purple way back when it was blue i see its green now looks very nice imho ive never had a problem with Razer stuff its all worked perfectly fine for me i was in a combat arms kick for awhile totally free game with thousands of weapons its pretty sweet then i went to world of tanks for a bit so not a very active game really compared to a FPS but the mouse worked perfectly and combat arms was even better with the Razer Goliathus mouse mat control version was easier to snipe(; i only ever went to about 1300 dpi so this is WAY more than you would need its dirty but for a five year old mouse id say it's doing pretty great:D
5	1357689600	Just got this in the mail and so far I love it. It was a replacement for my two year old Lachesis which now has left click problems. Going from a ambidextrous to a right-handed only mouse is a welcome change. The addition of the rubber grips on both the left and right sides of the mouse is great for those lift-off movements as the mouse won't slip out by accident. The new Infrared laser is very responsive and accurate even at 1800 dpi. Although this mouse has 6400 dpi, I doubt I will ever use that much unless I drop the Windows mouse setting below 6, which is not ideal for gaming. The Razer software, Synapse 2.0, is not bad. You can create profiles for each game and even adjust the lift-off distance!My only complaint is that the LED is only available in green. I'm still used to being able to customize the LED color scheme, but not a big deal. Other than that, it's great! Comfortable and accurate.I will update this review if any issues come up
5	1357344000	Very good mouse, better than the original one.love the grips on the side it makes the mouse tons times better
5	1357257600	This mouse is amazing. Bought it for WoW and have zero complaints. Even works well if you switch buttons for right handed.
5	1357171200	This is my first gaming mouse and I'm really enjoying it. It's not that heavy either which I like and fits perfectly on my hand. Absolutely love it!
5	1356998400	Nice upgrade from old deathadder I love the rubber sides and the mouse has a little rougher fill to it on top which I like then the smooth texture of the old one.only con is it only comes in green.
5	1356652800	Very comfy. Extremely well put together. Went from Logitech wireless left handed to this mouse and am very pleased. I wish it was wireless, but the braided cord is very flexible and I never notice it.
3	1356480000	I have had every DeathAdder mouse since their introduction.  It's a great shape.  The new 2013 mouse is an improvement in every way over the previous versions.However...  The mouse became unrecognizable to windows after only 3 days.  It's dead.
5	1356048000	Best mouse for everything, solid grip, nice texture. I really like the look too, sleek and glowy. I have the cheaper model, skip that and get this one.
2	1355443200	Very cool, but developed a short after a week.  My right handed one is fine though and came from the same company???  I dont think it is common for these corded mice to fail.
5	1354752000	My wife is left handed and does a fair amount of gaming. I bought this for her as she kept complaining about the mouse that she had. I have not heard a complaint since.
5	1354406400	Razer has never disappointed me. I own goliathus control and abyssus too. I must say they are really good at it. Deathadder left hand addition is good for gamers like me who are left handers, illumination adds to its beauty. I am currently using it at medium dpi settings and still its good.
5	1354233600	I am right handed but, I've been playing left handed my whole life. Its been a hassle trying to find a mouse that is a fit for the hand, until now. I've been eying this mouse for the longest time and finally bit the bullet and bought it, best idea ever. So done with finding ambidextrous mice that are good for gaming, this is my new baby.totally recommend this mouse to anyone who plays left handed. Now the hard part is to find a good keyboard for a leftie :/
5	1354147200	I love this mouse it accurate nice ergonomics the synapse driver i dont really like i wished they could have stucked wit the legacy drivers
3	1353196800	Pros:-The shape of the mouse is very comfortable-Side buttons are large and well placed-Braided cable is niceCons:-Stupid glowing snake logo never goes away-Scroll wheel squeaks when scrolling up in a specific manner-Razer's drivers are terrible. Not only do you have to make an account to use the drivers, Razer also does data mining on your computer.Verdict: Its a gimmicky mouse made for children. I'd rather buy 2 new Intellimouse Opticals for the same price.
5	1353196800	I've been using the mouse for a few weeks now and I'm happy with it. It has a nice feel in my hand, doesn't get too warm, and the clicks and scroll wheel are nice and quiet.
5	1351987200	The Death Adder is the first left-handed mouse on the market and I am extremely pleased with it.  Although, like a lot of others, I would of liked a few more buttons but it definitely is the step in the right direction.
2	1350604800	I have had the left-handed version of the DeathAdder for just a few days.  I really appreciate Razer making left-handed versions of their products.It is taking me a substantial amount of time retraining my "muscle memory" to using the mouse buttons (which are reversed from the right-handed mice).  I think it should be worth the effort though.  It would have been helpful for there to be a hardware switch to reverse the left and right mouse buttons.  (I know you can do this in software, but not all games work with that method)While I like the mouse very well, I am giving it only 2 stars because of the software required to set it up.  (velocity, etc.)  The Razer Synapse 2.0 software required to set the mouse up requires you to establish a login on their website to use the software.  This allows them to gather much information about you and your computer setup. If I had known in advance that I would have to give up my privacy to use the product, I would not have purchased it.If Razer changes the software to work locally on my computer, without requiring a login, I will change this review to 4 stars.
3	1350259200	The mouse works well, very responsive. It does have some problems working with Linux because the polling rate is too high and is overly sensitive. This can be changed with some messing around, Google for more details. I noticed sometimes the cursor moves even when I'm not touching the mouse but I think this is because my desk is dirty; usually I find an eyelash on the laser. Also I had to download a program to install the driver (IIRC it was called Origin). The program had a problem where it would pop up every time I turned on my computer. I contacted customer support and they said they were working on a fix. I just uninstalled the program and everything was ok. The mouse has had no connectivity issues and feels good in my left hand :-)UPDATE March 28, 2013: this mouse has some issues. The hardware is fine but the software is a pain. You need to be connected to the internet for the mouse to work. You need to install a program called Razer Synapse for the mouse to work. The first time you run Synapse you have to login to an account you create otherwise you can't use the mouse. I think this is way to complex compared to other mice where you plug it in and it works. I'm taking off a star.
2	1349308800	For over 20 years I've used standard (both handed) mice. I've been on the look out for a good left handed mouse that would do justice to all us left handed mousers. Unfortunately there is one serious flaw in the design of this mouse.The left and right buttons are reversed on the mouse, now this might not seen like a major problem to most people but it is... because there is absolutely no way to switch them. Windows OS provides a registry setting to swap the mouse buttons but not all games abide by this, even worse try a remote desktop connection to another machine and the buttons are now reversed.Most everyone who is left handed has been forced to use both handed mice with the standard left/right button layout. Vary rarely do left handers start out with a real left handed mouse or a mouse with reversed buttons.There is no logic to this madness..As far as everything else goes.. the outside case of the mouse, I've used mine for about 12 hours now and the top of the mouse is now starting to appear glossy (especially the buttons), either from my oily skin or because the dull flat finish is already wearing off.  The glossy sides of the mouse are often difficult to hold onto and sometimes it slips from my hands.It's nice to see a company attempt to satisfy lefties but in my opinion they underestimated most lefties who grew up using a non-lefty mouse.. Add a simple dip switch on the underside to swap the buttons.. don't even think about a software fix because it needs to be done in hardware..
4	1348963200	I hunted for a long time to find a good left handed gaming mouse.  I settled on the Razer Death Adder mainly because there are not many other options.  The mouse is very responsive and comfortable. The customization features give you plenty of options, however you have to be connected to the internet to use them.  The customization interface is difficult to work with and switching to left hand mode doesn't switch the left and right buttons.  While trying to get the buttons switched I created a situation where I could not left click at all and had to connect another mouse to rectify the situation. The mouse is great, but the software leaves a lot to be desired.
3	1348790400	The product is well made...nice feel...works wellbut...it boots slow and you have to change it to left hand when ever you boot...I think it is a USB issue...am going to try a PS2 adapter...I'm not a gamer nor left handed I just like to mouse left handed...once it gets going I love it...right now I'm just going to try and work around the boot and switch issue
1	1346371200	Short Review:This edition DA 2013 has big problem with the cursor. you wont be able to aim precisely and as a member of one of the famous hardware forums many complain from the same thing. this problem mean for hardcore gamer that play multiplayer games one thing "You are already dead" !!..........Not recommended to buy.Full Review:I bought many gaming mice before the most two important things are to be precise at aiming using whatever sensor they use and be comfortable for very long gaming session. comparing with one previous mouse I used is the DA BE (deathadder black edition) was perfect until after 6 months it start to do double click from single click. I thought it was only me but found many people complain from the same issue, it was a very common problem !!.This edition 2013 I dont know if they fixed this problem but I found another problem that exists in them all and up to the date for writing this review there is no fix from razer. I actually read comments from many members at a hardware forums complain that DA 2013 has a smooth cursor problem, the cursor move faster than expected from the hand movement in addition this problem will be visible to gamers with very sensitive hands this why not all will complain.Although I knew this problem but I read it can be fixed by using the mouse @ 6400 dpi, the maximum dpi available and since I really like this mouse because it is the most comfortable mouse I have ever used I had to see for myself so I bought it.Installed the driver and it start to install all updates to the driver and even the firmware and then start testing using some games like FarCry 3, TF2, Hawken and Company of Heroes and I really found the cursor is out of control I can not aim precisely like I used to have with DA BE or tt esports black or mad cat rat 7. the cursor is loose !! I increased the dpi to 6400 and set acc to 0 with modifing windows settings to suit my speed but nothing really helped !!I contacted razer about this problem and they offer replacement of course which I can also get from Amazon but...I really dont like to get another I will move to another different brand.I am really sad about this because this edition has some real good enhancements:- The mouse surface is not smooth but they made it harder to slip or to make your hand sweat. it kind feel like you hands touched some dust !! but it feel very good.- Two leather grips on the sides for more control- Cool looking, phosphoric green lights with the mouse black body.- Same shape like previous editions mean it is so comfortable for long gaming sessions (like 9.5 f 10 !!)- Very long braided cable- Higher dpi (not necessary but cool)- Not heavyOne last thing note that review stars here are for all deathadder editions not only the DA 2013.
4	1344297600	Anymore these days everything is going wireless, and the wired part of this mousey is the only bad thing I can say about it. Luckily the soft blue glow beaming from the Razer logo is a nice touch, reminds me of a dark and shiny serene place.I'm a lefty and bought the left-handed version for internet use only, and ironically this mouse taught me to use an ambidextrous mouse the way a left-handed person is meant to (naturally I was always using them backwards).To configure this mouse, you have to install the drivers found only on the Razer website.. it is not included with mouse. Something else worth mentioning, I keep hearing a whirr from my laptop every time I move the mouse around.No doubt this is a sweet, sweet mouse. Left-handed version highly recommended for lefties, it will make a great companion.
5	1342396800	I bought the left handed DeathAdder to replace the vernable Razer Copperhead which had a minor scroll wheel failure that just annoyed me to no end after about five years of faithful service. So far the DeathAdder has been performing like a rockstar. For you southpaws out there, the left and right mouse buttons have switched roles which I actually needed to change. This can be done easily from the Synapse client that stores your profile (DPI settings, button preferences, etc).A few observations:1. The DeathAdder has only two thumb buttons as where the Copperhead had two buttons on both the left and right side of the mouse. This doesn't particularly bother me as I had a hard time reaching the buttons with my pinky and ring finger on the left side of the Copperhead so almost never used it except for some MMO's.2. The Synapse client doesn't always kick in right away after a reboot so you may be running the default profile for several seconds. If you changed your right and left mouse button functions like me, it can catch you off guard.3. The top of the mouse is black matte and smudges. It's a bit messy looking but doesn't affect functionality.4. As where the Copperhead flared slightly inward from the top to the base, the DeathAdder does the opposite making the overall mouse slightly wider. Just an observation.Overall, very happy with the mouse after about a month with it on Windows 7 x64.
5	1339545600	I realize this is a gaming mouse, and I use the right-handed version of the same product for PC gaming.  And don't get me wrong: it's great for that.  It tracks smoothly and looks good.  And the resistance of the buttons is perfect for games with a lot of clicks (like Starcraft). Also, the software for the DeathAdder allows for broad customization, including turning off the glowing lights, which to me actually look a little silly.  The price ($50-60) is very reasonable for what this product offers.The most important element of this mouse that needs to be mentioned, however, is its wonderful *ergonomics*.  It fits my fairly large hands (with long fingers) extremely well.  It is much more comfortable to use for long periods of time than a run-of-the-mill PC mouse.  I highly recommend this product for someone looking for an ultra-comfortable mouse for a person with large hands.  It fits the shape of people with long fingers better than any other mouse I've tried, and its weight is extremely well adjusted.  This is truly an A+ mouse, both for gaming and general office use.  Just be sure to get the version for your handedness, since the shape of the mouse is *not* symmetric.
5	1337472000	This is my first gaming mouse, and I am impressed! Been using it for a month, and I've been so used to using right-handed mice, that I developed a fingertip grip to hit the left and right mouse buttons comfortably. Once I put my hand onto this Left-handed edition of the deathadder, it felt so natural. My grip changed to a claw grip and I had to switch the primary mouse buttons :PBut seriously. The mouse is smooth, sexy, 4th and 5th mouse buttons are very easy to click. I use the max dpi, and the normal polling rate is fine for me. Now for games, the best thing to do is to disable all windows based mouse acceleration for the best 1:1 mouse to crosshair movement. This means setting your windows mouse speed on 6 and disabling acceleration. There is also a registry patch floating around that truly disables acceleration for older games like counterstrike and what not.I did have a minor heat problem in the first few days, but that was because my palm wasn't used to the claw grip.Otherwise, amazing mouse. 5/5
5	1337385600	- Is about the only good left-handed mouse on the market (have had to use symmetric mice for years. it make a difference)- Very smooth, responsive, high DPI- Clicking action is fast because lever arm distance on the buttons is longer than most mice- Worked out of the box + easy to find drivers on Razer website- Sized relatively large, fits entire mouse hand well- Affordable for a specialty mouse
5	1337212800	As a lefty, its hard to find a gaming mouse that is ergonomically fit. This does it. The cable is really tough, and it has a gold plated usb connecter. I will never purchase another kind of mouse for myself. That is, of course, unless something nicer comes along, but that hasn't happened yet.
5	1330992000	Being left handed I have found the selection of left handed mice to be limited. I bought the Left-handed Razer DeathAdder after much deliberation. I am not a gamer, so I am not using anywhere near the full functionality of this mouse. I simply wanted a five button left-handed mouse so the additional two buttons would be on the right side of the mouse, where my left thumb is. You will have to download and install the mouse driver to get all five buttons working. It's a great mouse that gives me all the functionality I need. I am sure there are plenty of gamers out there who will give a more in depth review. I would recommend this mouse for all the "southpaws" out there.
5	1330041600	I love this mouse, it is the best mouse I have ever used in terms of accuracy and comfort. However, there is a major issue I found where the device will temporarily lose access to the buttons when you connect another USB device to a different USB port on your computer. This can be pretty aggravating and if it were any other mouse, I would have given this a lower rating...but due to the fact that someone FINALLY made a left handed gaming mouse, I can't in good conscience give this a lower rating than 4 stars, even with this glaring issue. I plan on buying a second one to see if I can duplicate the issue, and also as someone said in case this gets discontinued (quite likely considering how few left handed PC gamers like us exist).Edit - 6/25/12 - As of right now, the USB issue has not happened since I installed the latest firmware update, that being said I am now increasing this to a 5 star rating.
5	1329696000	this mous is must have for left hande or if like using left us mouis  i woo give 10 sttar if was 10 stars cheer
3	1329091200	This mouse had it's issues. Yes it was nice for a company to take aim at the left handed gaming community for a change. Before this mouse, I tried the Mamba which turned out to be an overated piece of hardware. Not to mention seriously over priced. The Deathadder felt better as far as grip than the Mamba I thought but it was just still too bulky and awkward feeling to me. It would constantly slip in my hand while trying to play games. It had an annoying blinking logo that had no other option than to turn off completely and not just stay on. I'm not saying this is bad mouse because it is roughly 70 bucks cheaper than the Mamba but I am saying that it should've been designed slightly less bulky maybe. I returned both this and the Mamba and bought the Steelseries Sensei.....excellent mouse but a lil pricey. The Sensei has the ambidextrous design that felt great. For those that are looking for a left handed mouse, know the difference between a "left handed" mouse and an "ambidextrous" one. That was the mistake I made. To one's own I guess.
3	1328227200	The mouse worked GREAT until I decided to install the driver and firmware. It would allow me to move, but I could not click anything while installing a program, while searching a large folder, or doing anything that might demand a spike in the CPU usage. I wrote their support 3 times and told them I have no other computer to test the mouse on, and was told 3 times to test it on another computer. Their tech support is lacking. I ended up troubleshooting it myself by disabling something in the BIOS. This was a temporary solution (for about a week), until the mouse again, prevented me from clicking anything for up to 5 minutes. Without the driver and the firmware, the mouse is working great. I've come to the conclusion, that all I really wanted this mouse for was the Mouse Button 4 and Mouse Button 5 to use in World of Warcraft. So, I uninstalled the driver, and the firmware. I'm reading these other reviews and clearly I'm not an isolated case. So, GREAT mouse, but throw away the CD, and might as well throw away the stickers too because I ripped mine off the chassis in disgust.
5	1327622400	I have large hands, and use my left hand.  This mouse is large and fits my hand well, side buttons are in good position for left hand.Wheel is smooth, buttons feel good, driver GUI is well done,  nice braided cord.  I've used dozens of mice over the past 25 years,  this is the best I've used (and it is not the most expensive).
1	1326758400	First, I bought this because it was supposed to be incredibly comfortable and smooth. I was looking for a smooth scroll wheel and this is stiff and hard to turn. Actually started giving me a callus on my finger and then after a week, the click would not work for the first 5min after turning on my computer every time. My previous $15.00 mouse lasted 10 years, was smoother and never had a problem till I spilled coffee on it. Get a good cheap one and you'll be much better off!
1	1325376000	My wife got me this mouse, and for a left handed gamer is sounds like a great thing, but in execution Razer dropped the ball.A little background, I am by nature, right handed, except when using the PC.  I use my mouse in the left hand, but configured for a right handed person (LMB is select, RMB is menu).  So upon plugging in the mouse I see its configured for a true left-hander, which means I need to reverse the buttons.  For some other mice, Windows 7 would allow you to do with without having to install additional software, but not for the Razer.  Fine, so I install the drivers that came with the mouse and its accompanying software.  I use the software to swap fingers, save, no dice.  I try it again, nothing.  I go out to their support and find updated software, thats fine, Windows 7 is still new (at that point) and maybe it was just finicky.  I install the latest version of the software and do a firmware update on the mouse (so ridiculous).  Now my buttons are configured the way I want them and all is right in the world.  Except now all the processes that run in the background for the mouse start chewing up memory to the point where its eating nearly half a gig just running on the desktop.  No macros configured, no special settings other than reverse mouse 1 and 2.  So I contact support they say try an earlier version, so I downgrade to the level below latest on the software.Everything is rainbows and sunshine except now my monitor and screensaver never kick on.  I do testing and determine its the Razer software doing SOMETHING in the background constantly keeping the screen active.  Fine, I can live without my screensaver and just turn off the monitor.  So for about 8 months I put up with this, constantly checking for software releases in hopes to have resolution, which never came.But now for the last straw on the forsaken mouse, in the last few months the scroll wheel was been acting up, where I scroll down and it jumps every whichway but the way its suppose to go!  I tested it on 2 other machines with the same results (even without their software), which leads me to believe its hardware related.  I've tried cleaning it but nothing seems to help.  This thing is just over a year old (out of warranty, I'm sure) and been nothing but trouble since I got it.  So now I am back to the drawing board for a left-handed/ambidextrous mouse.  I am going to try theMicrosoft SideWinder X3 Mouseand at a fraction of the price paid for this disaster, hope it has better results.P.S.Razer support was horrible.  I spend a week exchanging emails trying to troubleshoot the problems with them only to get back textbook responses to things I already addressed in previous emails.  My proficiency for technology is high since I do it for a living, and the experience was very frustrating.
5	1324944000	This mouse comes with the main and secondary mouse buttons inverted so you'll probably be confused at first when you click something and the emergent menu pops out. But in matter of almost no time you'll get used to a more natural control. Fortunately the mouse driver has an option to change this behaviour but in particular I didn't liked it because the shape of the mouse makes clicking everything with the left mouse button less comfortable, which makes sense and also it took a bit too much time for the driver to interchange the buttons functionality.My only problem I have with it is that the mouse wheel is too "bumpy" when you scroll with it since I was used to the more soft scrolling of the Microsoft Habu, but it's not a big issue.
5	1323302400	I love my left-handed DeathAdder! Its very fast and smooth! Thanks to Razer for thinking about those who use their left hand!
2	1323129600	I was hoping for a great left handed mouse but this mouse isn't nearly as quick as my Logitech laser mouse.  It performs ok but I expected it to be a bit faster based on the many reviews.  I tried it for a week and adjusted the settings multiple times to no avail and it is back in the box.
5	1322179200	I had no idea what a good mouse was, but turns out i really picked a winner! and at a super great price.
5	1321401600	The mouse arrived in a timely manner packaged in its retail package. The mouse was a snap to install,  I plugged  it into the USB port it was recognized quickly. Downloaded the software and set  up buttons with no problems. I have large hands and it fits and is not uncomfortable to use for long periods. the buttons are easy to reach and the scroll wheel works as it should with good indents. I am very happy with my purchase.On a side note and nothing against razor I would have preferred the 4th and 5th button on the left and right side of the mouse. This build has them under your thumb on right side (left handed mouse) I understand their logic for designing the mouse this way; it is easy for all size hands to use effectively and comfortably.I will purchase more products from razor because this mouse executes good design and a solid feel to it over all I am very pleased and hope to get long service life out of the mouse. If any problems arise I will update this post.
2	1320710400	Quality, precision, accuracy, price and appearance are all 5 Star.  My HUGE issue with this mouse is that they hard-wired the mouse buttons backwards!  I'm assuming because it is a 'lefty' mouse, that they thought it would be a good idea to just switch left-click and right-click from the get-go so you don't have to mess with settings within Windows.  This is a horrible idea!I am used to the standard right-hand mouse button configuration, even though I am a lefty, so when I discovered that the buttons are backwards, I figured I could just go to the control panel and switch them. Easy, right? Nope. Chuck Testa.Some games recognize Window's button-switch setting but many don't.  That means in certain games, Left-click is actually right-click, and in others, left-click is left-click! This can be very confusing, especially since most games don't have settings to swap the mouse buttons (Like Minecraft.  Sure, you can map right-click for 'Aim Down Sights.' and left-click for 'Shoot,' but what about when you're navigating menus, selecting items, or when the game starts frantically flashing "LEFT CLICK!"  Then you have to think to yourself, "Wait, is left-click actually left-click in this game? or is it right-click?" You can see how this can get very confusing.
1	1319414400	Mouse was DOA. I couldn't Click/ Right Click for 2-3 minutes after an additional USB device was plugged in. I Tried it on many different computers and multiple ports on every computer. There were not USB extenders used. It would be wonderful when it wasn't screwed up. Glides smoothly and is very precise. Here's where the horror story begins...I contacted support about 2-3 days after I opened the package. They had me dancing around issues for weeks. I sent them my invoice and the reply they gave was "Does the scan have (what they asked for)." This was email number 5 after I had given them all the information they had asked for since the first email. I had to repeat many things throughout the process of getting support. Not only are these things disgusting, it took them 2-3 days to get back to me between emails, and they took 6 when I sent one over the weekend. I found I was repeating myself multiple times and they were still asking for the same information. Finally after tonight's email I decided to give up, as it has been 27 days since it had been ordered, and it's been 16 since I have opened the box. I would have given it a little longer if I could have, but soon I was going to have a broken product and useless support to find a replacement. It really shouldn't be this difficult to support their products. I sent an email in reply tonight saying I got a refund from Amazon, and I wasn't going to buy another Razor. Considering this is one of the only left handed options out there, I'm kind of stuck. I'm seriously considering paying the price and suffering through poor performance for a regular ol' mouse though. The good ol' Microsoft ones have never failed me yet, though they are bland and slow.
5	1317081600	I've had many issues with mice in the past.  Any mouse with any sort of multi-button features either had to be uniform on both sides or I had to 'deal' with using the mouse incorrectly.  The left hand mice I did find were very simple to say the least.  I play quite a few games, whether it be RPG, MMO, to RTS.  A mouse is VERY important.  To be quite honest the 35000 MSI or the other gimmicks (I guess they're good?) was secondary.  As long as the mouse fit comfortably in my hand and reacted properly, I am in heaven.  Needless to say at this point, this mouse has content me in my long search.
5	1316649600	this is a good left handed fit and its well made works fine as for being a fast response on the click it doesn't seem any faster than my old mouse and its a bit overpriced in my opinion
1	1316217600	Running left handed version of this mouse with windows xp. With latest driver 3.03 the left and right mouse buttons randomly lockup for a minute at a time and then restart.  With version 3.02 of this driver I get the dreadful "to do" visual C++ run time error.  With version 3.01 the screen saver and power options to shut down monitor no longer work.  And when my system hibernates I cannot click my mouse button to bring it past the windows login screen to get it working again.  Been working with razer support for 2 months now with no resolution in site.  They send me a one or two sentence email once a week to give me a suggestion.  I call them and they say the problem has been escalated so they can't help me on the phone.  Now my previous mouse was a Lachesis which gave me blue screens when using so maybe this is a step up.  Presently using a logictech mx 518 with no problems at all other than it's a right handed mouse.  The selection of left handed mice are pretty limited so I'm stuck between a rock and a hard place.  If anyone knows a good ambidextrous or lefty mouse for gaming they'd recommend, please let me know.
5	1316044800	In the past I have had to buy mice that were either ambi or righty. I have had my share of awesome Razor mice in the past including the very first one which was thankfully ambi. this mouse feels so damn good to touch its amazing. my left had feels so at home much like rightys probably feel when they have their niec in hand. it was totally worth every penny
5	1312243200	This is the first lefty mouse I've bought and I love it.  The design fits comfortably in my hand, and slides flawlessly on my mouse pad and wood desk top.  I have had this mouse for a few weeks now and have yet to have a problem.  A feature that some might like is that by default the mouse buttons are set up properly for a a left handed mouse (switched top buttons of a regular mouse).  Even though I use my mouse with my left hand, I like to keep the button layout the same as right handed mouse, so I needed to go into the settings and switch the buttons for this mouse, but that was rather easy to do.  The top material of the mouse can get oily from your hands, but cleans off easily.Overall i'm very happy with this mouse and would buy it again.
4	1311638400	now i know why right handed people love their ergonomic mice so much.it just fits the hand. the buttons are all in the right spot. kinda sucks that blue is the only color choice..id have preferred red.one thing though: if youre used to using a right handed mouse configuration... this mouse can be set up for use with right handed button configuration, but it comes left handed by default...which was in itself a surprise since im so used to everything being made right-handed and being forced to either reverse it or just compensate. but i digress.good mouse..although..im not sure whether it may be a driver issue, or the fact my hard drive is dieing, or both... but it seems a bit sluggish at times and acts as if the buttons were sticking even though they arent. ill have to wait for a driver update, and my new hard drive(along with windows 7 instead of vista), to see whats what on that.
5	1310342400	I like to game and used cheap ones all the time, so I decited to try out a gaming mouse.  Glad I did.  If you game you need one of these, just do it you will be glad you did. Plus im a lefty and I ordered the lefty style.  If your a lefty try one you won't be dissapointed
3	1306108800	Great mouse, looks sweet as. The driver capabilities for it are limited and very difficult to work around, and they don't allow a decent customization for left handers living in a right handed world...
5	1305676800	I'm very happy with my new left-handed razor deathadder. I used to settle for a right-handed mouse but now I know I'll never go back. The simple customization makes it really easy to get the most out of all your buttons. I know there are more hardcore left-handed mice out there but for the price - this is as good as it gets.
1	1304985600	Pros:Feels great when I hold it. As a lefty this surprised me.Large enough for big handsgood button placementCons:HORRIBLE, HORRIBLE firmware! Updated it and STILL had problems with drivers. Jitters every so often, when I open the program to change settings and fix the problem it locks up!Yeah, 1 con...but it makes all the difference when it renders this mouse unusable. I've already tossed the thing behind me and replugged my old Logitech G3 back in. Now, I have nothing against Razor, but for all the high priced crap I see of theirs I really expected to just plug it in, change the buttons to what I wanted and smile. Completely NOT the case.The right handed version probably works much better because there's nothing to really change there.I recommend going with another Razor mouse. I got this TODAY and I've already bought a different(Razor) mouse. I want to like it...it just doesn't deliver on any level above a handrest. Luckily it was a gift and I didn't spend that much on it.
4	1303689600	If you looking for a good left-handed mouse thatmakes it feel like it is custom fit for you.Then this is the one to get, the RazerDeath Adder is as good for surfing as itis for gaming, it rocks!! Indeed.
5	1301788800	This is my first left-handed mouse and it's great!  It has a high build quality and I have not had any problems with it functioning.  I'm not much of a gamer, but the mouse still works great for everyday life.  One of my concerns was the fact that it was corded as opposed to wireless, but I have had zero difficulties/inconvenience because of it.  Whenever I need a new mouse I will definitely look first to Razer to fulfill my needs!
4	1300665600	This is a great mouse.  Being left handed I have always felt left behind in the mouse category.  This mouse fixes that.  Only complain that i have is the software that comes with this mouse really screws it up.  Please note that I am using this mouse on mac os 10.6, so software could be fine on other systems, this is untested by me.  Just plug it in and run with it and you will not be disappointed.
4	1300406400	I've been a PC gamer since the PC XT days, and as mice have become more advanced and contoured, I have always had to suffer with an ambidextrous mouse. The Razer Deathadder has a great quality feel and contour and buttons on the correct side of the mouse for lefties.There are two things I feel could be improved on this mouse. First, in all the years of using the mouse on the left side of the keyboard, I got used to the positions of the mouse 1 & 2 keys being "backward". Mouse button 1 is away from you using an ambidextrous mouse on the left side of the keyboard. The Razer puts button 1 at its technically correct inboard location, but its taking me some time to get used to it. I noticed in the configuration it appears that there is a way to switch or remap the buttons, but couldn't get it to swap the 1 & 2 button locations. I swapped them within Windows, but wasn't initially aware that was possible.The second thing I would like is a couple more buttons. This is a minor quibble, but I'm still jealous of some of the righty only mice like the Rat having so many configuration options and buttons.
5	1296000000	As being a south-paw PC gamer, struggling with a standard 800 DPI mouse is bad. Ligning up the perfect headshot in Team Fortress 2. Using a right handed mouse is very uncomfortable, buying this was worth the money I paid.My accuracy improved by alot, reaction time has increased.If your a lefty PC gamer, buy.If your a righty, buy the same mouse for right handers.EDIT 6/1/11Sigh... My mouse has died because of the bad software Razer written for the mouse. After updating the software and being forced to reset the mouse buttons, DPI, and polling rate, the mouse died on the spot. Only the blue glowing mouse wheel glows, not the razer symbol on the back, and windows shows an error message "USB Device not recognized"In conclusion, be very careful with the software. 1 wrong move and you have a 50$ paperweight.Edit 8/5/13I came back to this mouse after a couple years hoping that I could undo the wrongs I've done. Instead of messing too much with the software and more using the mouse, I bought it again December 2012. And to my surprise, Razer made this mouse the best mouse I've used in a LONG time again like I've originally stated a couple years back. Only because the software is so stable and usable. Much more than before.Clean UI, easier to use, better to manage with each Razer device you have, and not to mention... NOT PRONE TO CRASHING ALL THE TIME, and to break your expensive mouse.Bumping the score back to a 5. Because this is now a perfect mouse, thank you software.
5	1293753600	All my life, I've had to use either right or ambidextrous mice whenever I use the computer. Now, having this left-handed mouse, I can't deny, this is such a major improvement! It's incredibly comfortable too (I was at first worried my big hands wouldn't fit on the mouse, turns out I was wrong), the buttons on the right are in a great position for the thumb, the cord is a bit stiff, which is really nice so it doesn't bunch up and annoy you, the scroller very lightly clicks when scrolled, and the movement is unbelievably smooth.And the box and instruction booklet packet was very inventive and stylish.It's hard to explain in a Amazon review, but overall, it's the perfect mouse for southpaws and completely worth it's price.A few letdowns of it is that it could need a few more side buttons, and perhaps more customization with the color of the glow.
5	1293753600	Like most left handed people I have used a standard multi-dexterous mouse for over 15 years, until I finally seen this one on Amazon!This is the first Razer product I have ever owned and I have to say I am impressed. The mouse comes in a sleek windowed black box that opens on the right side for us lefties (a nice touch) and looks great if given as a gift to your favorite left handed person.The mouse itself is of high quality construction. It has a rubberized texture on top of the mouse for a no slip grip, it also features a strong braided cable design and a gold plated usb plug. The mouse has a blue LED scroll wheel and a blue lit Razer logo in the middle of the mouse that pulses blue.As others have noted by default the mouse is configured for a left handed person meaning the two mouse buttons are switched, however you can easily change them back if you so desire using the Razer driver utility that can be found at [...]Make sure you download the drivers and firmware for the 3500 dpi deathadder. Also be sure to installed the updated driver first and then the firmware update.The driver utility also allows you to tune just about every aspect of the mouse including the dps, scroll speed (even down to each specific x/y degree). The mouse also includes a quick profile change button on the bottom which would allow you to have a standard setup and a high dpi slow movement profile for something such as snipping in a game.My only complaint and it's a small one is I wish the non-slip grib had been extended down the sides of the mouse onto the button area (and the buttons to for that matter). Overall this is an awesome mouse with great features.Thanks to Razer for showing us lefties some love!
4	1292630400	Greetings,For the most part I am very happy with the feel of the mouse, its construction and its ergonomic "feel".  Its unfortunate that to get 100% performance from this unit I had to purchase a razer mouse pad.  Its also unfortunate that there is no OEM configuration utility.  I'm running 64bit Ubuntu 10.10 kernel 2.6.35-23-generic.  I found a utility: [...] (download the source code and compile via git) It works on my system only with issues that I'm still working on. Still like the product I play a FPS Nexuiz soon to fork to xonotic. My scores have jump way up. My "game" is much better.EnjoyThe Couch_Potato
5	1292544000	The mouse is very fast and precise exactly what I wanted. I am right hander but use left hand mouse most often due to ergo reasons. I always swapped the buttons for left hand use and had tough time on some apps and remote desktop not able to work well. What made me buy this is "complaint" people had on hard wired left mouse - which was precisely what I wanted. Great product - I bought both left and right DeathAdder and keep swapping between two every so often. They both are fast, precise comfortable and works in tandem. Thanks to Razer for the excellent product. I don't play games but this allows to program/disable the extra keys which are only a couple more - so overall very happy with the product.
5	1289088000	I was wary to buy on previous reviews of how my left handed mouse would not stand up to the Windows 7, because the updates were not current/available. All I can say is apparently Razer has fixed the problem. Yes, the mouse is larger, but as stated with other reviews, it works fine. The new feature that I have not experienced previously was the up/down page buttons at the thumb area. I haven't tried the mouse pads yet, but would think the responsiveness would be improved.You likely could buy a cheaper ambidextrous/universal mouse, but you get what you pay for here. It is high quality with some extras. I simply bought it for what they promoted. It is for left-handers like me! If you have the money, you can't go wrong with this. (I have not contacted customer support to give a rating on that. Let's hope I don't need to.)
5	1288828800	Just got this mouse yesterday.  I absolutely love it.  The feel of it is very solid.  It is very comfortable and precise.  The buttons on the side are very easy to reach and have just the right sensitivity.  So exciting that someone is finally thinking about us lefties!  The only thing I would improve about this mouse would be to add a couple more buttons, but other than that I can't think of anything negative to say about it.  Regarding the people who have had issues with this mouse and Windows 7, I also have Windows 7 (64 bit home edition) running on my laptop and I haven't experienced any of the issues reported yet.
4	1288742400	Keep in mind that while this is ergonomic for left handers, it also has the mouse buttons reversed. That was annoying to me, and I switched it back in windows. However, many games don't go by windows' settings, and revert back to the reversed setup. If you dont like the reversed buttons, go with another mouse.The cord on this mouse is very sturdy and seems like it will hold up to abuse and wont rip or break. The two side buttons are useful and the LED lights are attractive. I wish that they included a cheap mousepad instead of all the advertising and booklets that came with it.
3	1288310400	I game!  Indeed, i do and I'm left-handed, so imagine my excitement I found a true ergonomic left-handed gaming mouse.  According to the to product specifications, the mouse is compatible with Mac OS 10.4 +.  I operate 10.5 currently.  I received my mouse and immediately opened and plugged in per the included instructions.  AFter downloading the appropriate drive, which is not entirely clear as to which you actually need, I got the mouse up and running assigning some custom macros to the buttons for my games.  It took some choice words and experimentation to translate Windows based instructions into Mac commands, but I got it eventually.  That was one star off, for the frustration.While playing my game three days later, my  mouse abruptly stopped working.  The optical and the LED light were flashing intermittently and the mouse did not respond.  So I plugged in my old mouse, removed all the drivers and visited the Razer web-site to find trouble-shooting instructions, and that's where the Customer support lost a star.  Their forums are difficult to navigate and as far as I could tell, there are no trouble-shooting guides.  I ended up contacting Razer Technical support via phone.  At least their phone menu was easier to navigate than the web-site.  I talked to a knowledgeable and helpful tech, who asked if I had updated the firmware.  And there's the other quality star deduction, no where in the instructions did it say that, as a Mac user, I needed to plug in and install the mouse on a Windows PC to update the firmware of the the mouse.  Now, I did see the firmware updates while browsing the the driver on the Razer web-site, but nothing that said Mac users needed to follow steps to install the firmware upon their mouse.  While one the phone with the tech, he suggested I plug in the mouse to a Windows PC and attempt to download the new firmware.  Needless to say the PC did not recognize the mouse, and it was declared dead by the Razer Tech.My ticket was submitted, after filling out a form, to their returns department (yes, I did fill out my warranty registration, the day I got it, in fact).  A few days later I get an e-mail from their returns department stating for me to return the mouse for refund or replacement of the product from the vendor I had purchased the mouse from since I had owned it for less than 30 days.  I had, I'm sure without any malice, been led to believe my mouse would be covered under the warranty that I had so dutifully registered for, and would be replaced by Razer.  Tech's were great, returns needs some work.....  If it had been easy for me to return to a store and get a replacement, I wouldn't have even called Razer.  So, with great disappointment, I packed my mouse back up and sent it back in for refund.I had hoped to write a more positive review about my experience and usefulness of this mouse to fellow south-paw gamers, but sadly I can't.  A mouse that only lasts three days and not be supported really, well it left a bad taste.  I will have to consider greatly before I purchase another mouse from Razer, and my hunt for a left-handed mouse that works with Macs continues....
5	1288051200	As a lefty, it's always been frustrating to try to use symmetrical mice or right-handed ones.  This mouse is awesome because I no longer have to switch the mouse buttons around in the Windows settings when using someone else's computer.  The mouse is extremely comfortable and very responsive.  My hands are not sore anymore, even after using the computer for 12 hours a day.
2	1286409600	A lot of computer devices these days are going the ergonomic route, aka the bane of a left-handed person's existence.  With this in mind, I was delighted to see that Razer manufactures a left-handed alternative to their gaming mouse.  The device is basically just like the standard Razer DeathAdder (right-handed version) - it's got a nice long cord, high precision controls, extra buttons, and a fancy glowing blue logo.  It even comes in a cool box with some free drink coasters that are strangely labeled "certificate of authenticity."  Seriously, though, it's probably the coolest mouse I've owned and it's amazing because it's left-handed, but there are two problems with it that bothered me as soon as I started using the thing.First, the left and right click buttons are switched.  This means that, by default, when you left-click it right clicks and when you right click it left-clicks.  Confusing?  Try playing Starcraft that way.  Now, this isn't the end of the world.  You can go into your mouse settings and click the "switch left and right click buttons" options. However, if you ever switch to another computer you'll have to do the same thing.  In addition, if it's somebody else's computer, or if you ever want to use a different mouse with your computer again, you'll have to switch the settings back every time you switch.Now, I kind of get why they did this.  If a left-handed user likes his mouse backwards, shouldn't the buttons be backwards too?  Ok, maybe, but most lefties probably grew up using right handed mice (mouses?) making this feature a pesky annoyance.  I mean, why hard wire the mouse that way if users could change it in the settings anyway? Maybe some people want this feature, but it irked me enough to wish there was some sort of button to turn it on and off.The other thing I noticed about this mouse is that the point moves more quickly than the pointers on my other mice.  Maybe this is meant to make it 'high precision' for gamers, but this is another feature that can be easily changed in your Windows settings or in an individual game's settings.  So, again, this is another feature that you have to tweak inside the control panel every time you plug in Razer's mouse or switch computers, unless you don't mind the hypersensitivity.So, over all, it's an ok product.  I like the design, but the built in hardware settings make it cumbersome to use if you want to use it on multiple computers.  This is no normal mouse.edit:In response to the condescending comment claiming I don't know how to use a 'gaming' mouse, I installed Razor's proprietary software.  Hey pro-gamers!  Do you like having to log in so that you can access your mouse's settings?  How about having software the crashes when you're trying to play a game, or interrupts everything you're doing to inform you to "Please plug in a razor product" when your mouse isn't plugged in? Then this is the product for you!  Seriously.  If you don't think I'm being accurate, check out all the google search results for problems with Razor Synapse.  Their software makes the problem even worse than it was to begin with.
4	1282521600	It's the only left-handed mouse I could find. It has a very comfortable fit, sturdy construction, and cool appearance. Has some advanced features which I don't find necessary to use.If you're left-handed, I definitely recommend it! An improvement over the right-handed devices I had been using left-handed until I got the DeathAdder for lefties.
1	1281225600	I bought this (left-handed!) mouse about a month ago and struggled with getting the current driver and firmware to work without causing my screen saver, or monitor off power saving function, to fail on Windows 7 32bit. I tested it on several different systems and multiple configurations, with the same problematic result.  After 3 weeks of emails (4 in three weeks....UGH) from customer support, they admitted they had some problems with Windows 7 but had no schedule from development engineering to address the issues with 32bit or 64bit drivers.  There is no way to talk with anyone as they do not provide any telephone numbers or address for the company. Not once did they provide any useful information.  I finally threw the mouse away and bought a Steelseries Xai that worked perfectly out of the box.  While the Razer DeathAdder is nice looking, reasonably comfortable, and moves smoothly, the software is apparently not compatible with Windows 7 and the customer support is practically non-existent. Please spend your money on something that works and is supported.
1	1280534400	Do not buy this mouse. The scroll wheel is awful. I have had this mouse for a little over 3 months and the scroll wheel will not scroll properly in one direction, but instead it will "stutter" scroll backwards every time. It started off doing this gradually, an irritation for sure, but not impossible to work with; by now it has become useless to play any game with because it can not perform any action with the scroll wheel reliably. This is a shame because it is one of the few left-handed mice available.
4	1279497600	This mouse operates with pin point accuracy and is the best LH mouse I have ever used.  Two things that need improvement are the cord and the mouse surface.  The cord is stiff and it holds curves and kinks, I think it could have been more pliable. The mouse surface is sleek and smooth but on the sides it feels like it is slipping and causes me to grip it too tight making my wrist sore after a long session.
4	1278892800	What can I say as a online gamer I finally found a left handed mouse that makes it so easy to play online and surf the internet with fast response. I highly recommend Razer products the feel of the mouse is great quality and the ergonomics are fantastic.
5	1277510400	As a lefty, I've been using ambidextrous mice my whole life. In the past I've tried right-handed mice with my right hand, just to see what they felt like (I was jealous). However, when I first laid my hand on this mouse, I was amazed at how comfortable it was. I would recommend this mouse to any left-handed PC user, not just a gamer (although it is great for gaming) because it's so comfortable.Pros:Specifically made for lefties (duh)It's precise, sensitive, and fast.The cord is braided, and is a lot tougher than most mouse cords. This might be important if you want to lug it around with a laptop.It looks great.Clicking is quiet (audible but not obnoxious) and comfortable.The Mouse 4 and Mouse 5 buttons on the right side are really convenient for games or just web browsing; these buttons are missing from most ambidextrous mice.Cons:Other people have said this too, but the primary and secondary mouse buttons are switched by default. I haven't had that much of a problem with it though, because it's pretty easy to switch the buttons back by changing mouse settings. For the average lefty who's been trained for right-handed mouse buttons, this is only a problem for about two minutes.The surface of the mouse is a matte rubberized plastic material. It will grab onto any moisture or oil on your hand, and could be annoying to a neat-freak, but it's quite easy to clean off.The mouse is rather large, but I have large hands, and it is extremely comfortable. But for someone with smaller hands, I doubt it would be uncomfortable. Contrary to what another reviewer said, this mouse feels pretty light to me.All in all a great mouse. When I have the money, I want to buy a spare just in case these are discontinued!
3	1277424000	Just received this mouse yesterday. Replaces a Logitech MX510 (right handed) that I have been using left handed. I have used the mouse for about 24 hours and will probably be returning it. Here's why:On my system, running Windows 7 Home Premium 64-bit, two bad things are happening that appear to be driver related:1.) The mouse driver does not load until the final initialization of the Windows 7 desktop. That is, you are looking at an immobile mouse cursor for several seconds until the mouse driver loads and you hear the "da-dum" USB audio icon. Not an issue for most people, but to me, it indicates poor integration of the mouse driver with the 64-bit Windows 7 mouse class API and my since old Logitech MX510 didn't do it (with SetPoint v6.0) why should the Razor?2.) Assigning a double-click to the middle button. I *cannot* get the double click to work reliably. For example, assign double click to the middle scroll wheel, mouse over Windows Explorer, click the mouse wheel once, NOTHING HAPPENS. Now, try it again, except this time, hold the middle button (scroll wheel) down for about a half second instead of just clicking and releasing. NOW IT WORKS. You are kidding me -- you have to hold down the middle button for 200-300ms so the driver can complete execution of a macro to send a double click? That Sucks.FYI -- yes, I flashed the mouse to the latest firmware. Yes, I downloaded and am running the latest version of the Razor driver. Yes, I installed the driver under Administrator privileges. Yes, I adjusted the double click sensitivity all the way down. Still does it. Emailed Razor tech support (after 15 minutes looking for how to contact them on their "support" web site). Haven't heard back yet. Not particularly impressed with their support processes so far.Haven't tried any games with it yet; if it can't make it past basic usability on my OS desktop, I have no use for it. Looks like I will be returning it for the $32.00 ambidextrous Microsoft gaming mouse.Advice to Razer -- designing feature rich products that look great is one thing, but if you can't/won't deliver on the drivers your stuff will stop selling. Logitech learned that lesson the hard way (and has since changed their ways).
5	1275350400	If you, like me, are a lefty gamer - this is the mouse for you. I'm actually right handed but when it comes to mouse/keyboard I prefer the mouse in my left hand and I'm no gaming slacker. When it comes to FPS's, I melt faces.As you know, there's a limited amount of mouse love for us lefties but this has everything I need. It's accurate and "very" comfortable. I have decent sized hands though so it might be bigger than a lot of smaller-handed people prefer. Dunno. The 2 side buttons are well-placed and work perfectly. This thing is like an extension of my hand. It also looks amazing with a blue glow for the scroll wheel and a cool symbol on the palm of the mouse.Anyways, after experimenting with several mice - this is the one for me.
5	1275091200	I have over 40 differnt mice that I have collected through out the years and by far this mouse beats them all . Finally a mouse that fits the contour of my hand . We lefties have been trying to get logitech to make us a specifically designed left handed gaming mouse for years. Too bad they didn't listen.  Thanks Razer for your lefty support. I like the mouse so much I bought 3. Just incase this model gets discontinued.
5	1273881600	Being left-handed, I have been starved for ergonomic gaming mice for my entire life.  I had to be content using ambidextrous mice, such as the Razer Copperhead.  That was a great mouse but there is a world of difference having a mouse that is molded to fit your hand.  I had no idea how much of a difference it would make simply because I had never used a left-handed one--they didn't exist!The mouse performs very well, it is very precise and the two thumb buttons are great.  It has a pleasing blue glow and the cable is plenty long enough, even for those with their computer under the desk.  It fits very comfortably in my left hand!
5	1272758400	I am not left handed. I do have some carpal tunnel in my right shoulder that hurts quickly when I use a right handed mouse at my desk. So, I've been using a right handed mouse (Logitech G5) in my left hand. I got tired of not having the thumb button. So, I got this Razer DeathAdder Left Hand Edition.I used to consider the G5 the best mouse I ever used and it is great. However the Razer DeathAdder is even better. It is a little less curved over the top and fits my hand a little better. The scroll wheel is smoother and easier. I do like the two thumb buttons. I don't do any gaming, so I programmed the front one to close a windows or tab and left the back on for "back".Oh yeah, the DeathAdder logo on it fades in and out with the blue back-light. That is cool.Clyde
5	1271635200	What can I say? This is the Deathadder you know and love, but mirrored so left handed people can enjoy that contoured feeling too. :) I love this mouse so much, to the point where I almost considered dragging it to work every day so I would have a nice mouse there too.I noticed two things that are so minor they don't affect my score but are things you should be aware of before buying:1) My hands are pretty small and sometimes the mouse feels a tad over sized, but it's nothing compared to the discomfort of a right handed or symmetrical mouse. I doubt anyone other then very small-handed people would even notice this and unless I hold the mouse in one really particular way, I don't either.2) Even though I'm left handed, I've used a right handed button configuration all my life (aka left mouse button is primary, right is secondary). However, the left handed Deathadder is designed for people who have swapped the buttons (so left is secondary and right is primary). When I first used it, it felt wrong and kind of uncomfortable to use the left mouse button and my middle finger as the primary mouse button/finger so I swapped it in Windows 7's settings. I was expecting a huge learning curve after the change, but not so! The mouse is contoured so nicely that after a few hours, I was using my index finger and the right button as the primary button like a pro. (Though, good luck transitioning back to the other configuration at work/public computers, but at least it's an easy setting to change.)The mouse worked immediately after plugging in on Windows 7 box, with no need for Razer's drivers. I've used it for gaming as well as web browsing for hours on end with no discomfort after the intital learning phase (mentioned above). As with all Razer mice, the buttons and tracking are responsive and the mouse texturing/shape is comfortable. The side buttons seem nice but I haven't used them very much yet, as I'm not used to having side buttons at all!Overall, I couldn't be happier with this purchase. If you need a left handed mouse for any sort of serious computer using, this is the one for you!
4	1270771200	A solid gaming mouse.  Seems a little large and heavy (even though I personally have large hands.)The one thing I absolutely hate, however, is that the left and right mouse buttons are hard-wired switched.I know it is easy enough to switch them in windows, but whenever you remote desktop into another machine, you have to go in and switch there too which is a real pain.
