4	1405987200	my cats like it!!!
5	1405900800	Our two calico cats are seniors.  We knew that drinking more water was important for them.  This fountain works like a charm.  (I can tell by the increased use of the litter box.)  They were unsure about drinking from the fountain at first so I turned off the pump until they were used to the still water.  After two days, I turned it back on.  Now one cat drinks from the fountain, and the other prefers the "pool."  I haven't taken it apart yet so don't know how easy that is.  It's very quiet and I'm totally pleased.
5	1405814400	My 2 cats LOVE this fountain!
4	1405555200	We had the ceramic fountain like this one. It was too heavy and difficult to handle when cleaning. This one is light weight and easy to clean. Even though I change the filter as recommended and clean it every week, the water still gets slimy.
3	1405468800	I wish my cats took to it better.  I've caught one of them drinking from a time or two.  Not sure if the other one does at all....
5	1405296000	It is so easy to clean, comes apart into 6 pieces and is dishwasher safe.
5	1405296000	works great, not too noisy (which my cat would not have liked) and keeps my cat finally off of the countertops asking for me to put the sink on. I had to bring her over to it several times a day for the first week and splash my fingers in the water to help her figure it all out, but, that's probably just her.
3	1405296000	The cats seem to like it. You have to clean it fairly regularly though, or you'll get these build-ups of lime (or something similar) that are impossible to get off. Even a product meant to remove that stuff like CLR didn't fully take care of the problem. Seems like a great product but requires a good bit of maintenance.
5	1405209600	You can't hear it running. The only problem I have is the oldest dog won't go near it but the puppy uses it with no problem. The water stays clean!!!
1	1405209600	couldn't get it to run at all. maybe i messed up putting it together? i have no idea. the instructions were spare in places i'd have expected great clarity and detail (hello, mixing water and electricity?). total dud.
2	1405123200	I was so excited when I got this product. It has a nice design and is the perfect size for my cat. I followed the directions meticulously while setting this up. I read the instructions multiple times through before even starting. However, it will not work! When I plug it in, I can hear the buzzing and can see the water pulsating at the top, but it never cycles through. I have called the customer service number (found on the box and website) multiple times during business hours and have left a voicemail with my number and explanation of the issue. No response. Very frustrated!!!
1	1404950400	First pet fountain, and I hate it. If I could give no stars I would. You can't use it on any setting but the lowest or it gets the whole surrounding area wet. You have to change the water every other day or the bowl gets really slimy. We never had that problem with the regular bowl and could go 4 or 5 days. It has sharp edges around where the cord rests and with having to clean it so often the cord is getting chewed up. I've only have it a few months and already need to replace it but I won't buy this again.
5	1404691200	The cats love this fountain. I've had a couple of plastic fountains in the past that the cats really liked but would get buildup and not work very well afterward. The Pioneer Pet fountain works wonderfully and, while it does get some minor buildup, is easy to clean with a scrubby sponge or steel wool. The plastic parts are reasonably priced for replacement when they get old and Pioneer Pet's customer service has been absolutely wonderful. I recently had a piece fail and they have responded quickly and been very generous in supporting their product
3	1404604800	it was ok
5	1404604800	Fantastic little device. We've had two (the water in our old apartment was so mineral-heavy, it coated the metal after a few years) and our cats absolutely love it.
4	1404604800	very good product. however, we had one small problem. the filter got stuck, so once we cleared it up it was fine again.
5	1404604800	Really efficient and easy to clean. Tiffany (the cat) really likes it. She uses both sections. She likes to play in the water where it flows out but mostly drinks at the bottom section. It's both intertainment and practical.
5	1404518400	Great product.  My dog carries food over to it though and the pump gets disgusting/impossible to clean once the water has been contaminated.
3	1404518400	I've had this for over a year now and while I like the design and it DOES work well, I wouldn't recommend the stainless steel finish if you have hard water. My water has removed the finish on the fountain. I bought the ceramic version and it seems to hold up much better.
5	1404518400	The water dish/fountain is perfect in design and function. i'm pleased.
1	1404259200	Bad choice. Have had 5 1/2 months and the pump does not work. Tried everything to get it going and it would work for a short time then quit. Am now stuck with an expensive stainless water bowl.
4	1404259200	it's a pretty good fountain, my cats like it and drink from both the fountain and the bowl.pros: looks nice, provides cats with filtered water, entices them to drink more.cons: sometimes the pump gets loud for no apparent reason and hums and is annoying, I often have to unplug it and replug it in until it settles itself and goes back to being quiet. needs to be refilled daily or it starts humming and eventually wont pump (obviously)
5	1404259200	great product
5	1404172800	Cats love it!
1	1404086400	It did not have a big enough capacity, and it was noisy.  I returned it and bought  another brand with a bigger capacity.
1	1404086400	I have had this for one month and it was working great until it stopped working all of a sudden. It had great promise but unfortunately I have to give this a one star because it did not last long! My cat had just gotten a hang of it and now does not like the regular bowl UGH
5	1404000000	This fountain is easy to fill and easy to maintain. My cat has been slow to use it, but he is a little strange. My husband calls him Braveheart because he is such a coward. I love that the fountain is made of stainless steel. It is easy to clean and has virtually no nooks or crannies to hold gunk. It looks like it will last a long time. Some other reviews talked about refilling the filters to save money and I intend to try that, though I haven't yet. It looks like I can use aquarium charcoal and filter material and get a little more life out of the filters. I bought my filters from Bed Bath and Beyond online and they weren't outrageously expensive. Keeping the water level up is a breeze - just pour more in. It is pretty quiet. I definitely recommend it.
5	1403913600	This has been an amazing product so far. I was a little nervous about all of the pet drinking fountains that I looked at because of negative reviews but this one has been incredible. It is quiet, functional, and easy to clean. I highly recommend this fountain.
2	1403913600	It looks nice but she will not drink from this thing. I will probably have to return it before the month is up
5	1403913600	I like it because it's easier to clean than the Drinkwell.  The price was considerably less than the pet store.  And the important thing is my cat likes it too but she only drinks out of the bowl not the stream.  I'd like some feedback on that please.  She used the stream and bowl from the Drinkwell.
1	1403740800	This fountain is attractive and my cat seemed to like it, but after just three months it quit working. I have a claim in for a warranty repair, but will have to buy a different fountain in the meantime, since I can't wait for them to send out another motor. I've had two similar fountains made by other companies in the past and they lasted for years.Update on the warranty claim: they won't replace the broken pump unless I "troubleshoot" it with them, which involves giving a step-by-step written explanation of how I cleaned it. Will never buy from them again. Very disappointing.
5	1403740800	Went through the odyssey of providing my cat Dizzy with the best water bowl I could find. Did the Drinkwell for years but got tired of the constant cleaning and plastic issue. Tried the K & H Cleanflow- despite it being plastic, because of its flow. Was noisy and the motor collected gunk like I never saw, and the filter provided was a total turn off for a cats sensitive nose. Tried the Pioneer ceramic bowl but it arrived in pieces and I wasn't going to mess with that again. So this was my last choice which turned out to be the BEST BUY.Dizzy loves it, it's a snap to clean (read the instructions if you want to do it right and not burn out the pump) and it's safer than ceramic which can chip and break. He especially enjoys drinking from the spout and is drinking more than ever. So it's all good in my house.Update:Still working after a month so none of the pump issues I read from some reviews. I really think the key is not letting it run dry at all and setting it on a lower speed to re-start it. I believe the instructions specify this. Also, you know how the water after even 2-3 days will get "scummy?" Well my guy drinks from the spout which makes that a moot point. Best of all in the hot weather I can put ice cubes in the bowl area and he gets a cold drink.Yes, I love my little man.
5	1403740800	My cats really do drink more water from these fountains. They are easy to clean...especially the stainless in the dishwasher. The design is so sleek it really does not &#34;tacky up&#34; the room.
5	1403654400	I have bought a few of these now. I keep one upstairs and one downstairs and my cats love them. Easy to clean and nearly silent when full of water.
5	1403654400	My cat LOVES drinking from any kind of tap - kitchen sink, bathroom sink, bathtub - you name it and she will drink from it. What she will not usually drink out of is her water bowl, unless that is her only option. She's been having some digestive issues recently and after some research I decided it might be worth a shot to try an automated fountain to encourage her to drink more water. I received this product yesterday. It was very simple to set up and get started. Within minutes of setting it by her food, my cat came to investigate and promptly started drinking out of the new addition, both from the "fountain" portion (which is a gentle ripple from the spout and less of a fountain effect) and the bowl (in which the water remains relatively still). She went to town and drank more water in one sitting than I've seen, including when she gets to access her favorite tap. We are only on day two but so far she seems to be very attracted to it.Other pros are that it is relatively quiet; no loud motor sound. It seems easy to clean (disassembly should be as simple as assembly) and while it is larger than your regular cat dish, it isn't so huge that it is cumbersome to have in the kitchen. I haven't had any issues with spills or leaks but again, it is only 2 days old.If you have a cat that likes running water, I would certainly give this fountain a try!
5	1403222400	I had a cat fountain previously but it was plastic and the lime buildup was considerable. I am so much happier with this one, it's almost completely stainless steel so it will be easier to clean. It took me a few minutes to work out exactly how to put it together, I think the directions could have been a bit clearer, but now that I've worked it out, it will be very easy to take it apart and put it back together. As soon as I set it out, my cat came up and drank from it and the noise level is very minimal.All in all, very very pleased with this purchase!
5	1403222400	I was really nervous because this was kind of expensive. But its worth the money. I have caught all four of my cats drinking from it multiple times. It can get a little loud but make sure you have enough water in it. I also put a piece of carpet under it because its on tile flooring. I do HAVE to clean it at least once a week, like anything that water sits in or runs through it can get slimy. but you really should be cleaning it every week and anyways. I also like that it is stainless steel. this is my first cat fountain.
2	1403049600	I like it , but the pump already went out !! it worked for about a week, how do I get a replacement ??
3	1402963200	I love the fact that it is metal but the plastic grommel around the part where the water streams out smells horribly like mothballs. So I returned it. Dont want my cat drinking chemicals
5	1402963200	We had a drinkwell previous to this and it worked well but the plastic drinkwell uses has a slightly porous kind of texture and feels like it may be impregnated with an antibiotic of some kind to discourage bacterial growth in the fountain.  After a while, it became impossible to clean satisfactorily.This fountain form Pioneer Pet is SO MUCH EASIER to clean and to keep clean!  Very few parts.  Easy to take apart and put back together.  It's incredibly quiet, and the cats love it. Plus, it's pretty too!  We will be buying this kind of fountain again, should the need arise, and plan to give them as gifts too.
3	1402876800	I decided to buy a water fountain for my cats after my little girl just kept drinking out of the faucet.  I wanted something relatively easy to clean, yet stylish enough to have in the open.  After about a week of constantly running, I decided to unplug the fountain and wash it.  I noticed that there were water stains already running down the side.  Once they were there, I couldn't get them off!  I was a bit disappointed with the quality considering it claims to be &#34;stainless steel.&#34;  I kept this fountain as a backup, but went and got the drinkwell platinum instead.  So far, the cats love it and I enjoy it better.  I may pull this Pioneer back out at some point for another location in the apartment, but they definitely prefer the other.
3	1402876800	The cats don't seem to love it as much as I thought they would. It is also smaller than I expected.
5	1402790400	We bought the black ceramic version several years back and the pump finally died, so for the incremental cost, we decided to try the stainless steel version...like it even better.
5	1402704000	We have a cat who was constantly asking us to fill the bathroom sink with water. (Cat owners, you know how this is done.) My sister had acquired something similar to this one, so we finally &#34;splurged&#34; and got this one. I'd buy it again in a heartbeat--the cat doesn't require a sink full of water every time I head down the hall, now!
5	1402704000	I bought this because one of my cats insisted on drinking from the faucet, which is wasteful and not good for the water bill.  Assembled this quickly, filled with water, plugged it in...and he loves it.  Didn't hesitate to drink from the bubbler, and hasn't gone in search of the faucet again.It is very quiet.  I can't hear it at all until the water level gets a bit low, then I just fill it up and all is well.The only other comment I have is, when you assemble it and put the motor in, make sure it is in EXACTLY as pictured in the instructions (the bubbler 'pipe' needs to be oriented exactly as shown, or it won't bubble).Great product!  Highly recommend!
5	1402704000	I bought the Pioneer Pet Raindrop fountain a little over a month ago, and I have only good things to say about this product.It is made out of a good quality stainless steel and looks attractive.  It's heavy enough that the cats don't knock it around.The fountain is very easy to assemble and comes with a helpful pamphlet.My three cats took only a very short time - a couple of hours - to adjust to the new addition, and now they all love it.The fountain is very quiet.  If I hear the pump become noisy, that's because the water level has gotten too low, and I simply pour a little more water in the basin.Cleaning is pretty simple.  I change the filter once a month. I have hard water and noticed a little buildup on the sloping channel.  A little scrubbing with baking soda took care of that.
5	1402704000	Both of my cats were weirded out by the fountain at first but now they drink all over it now. One of my cats has UTI and he seems to be getting better now that he's drinking more water. Easy to clean too! Great product!
5	1402617600	I had a plastic one before, one cat would not use it. The other rarely used it. Now, they both use it and the dogs too!
5	1402617600	I'd give this little unit fewer stars if I could find any fault with it.  But to be honest, it's as close to perfect as it can get.  We have eight cats, and for many years they drank from a tabletop fountain designed for looks and calming sound.  They just sort of ... took it over, and I learned to accept that.  It's on its last legs now, so I decided to get the cats one designed for them.  I couldn't have made a better choice.  The half gallon capacity means I'm refilling only once a day (as the instructions state not to let the water level get below about 1/2" from the inner rim).  The carbon filter keeps the water clean and fresh.  And the whole unit breaks down and goes together so easily.  Cleanup is quick, so it's back on the counter and available for the cats in a flash.  Big bonus:  the cats love it.It doesn't make as much of a burbling sound other fountains designed for calming ambience will make, but the cats can hear the running water nonetheless.  The motor does make a sort of humming sound, but I've moderated that by setting the unit on a foam placemat, which the manufacturer recommends anyway if only to protect the underlying surface from water damage.  All things considered, this little pet fountain is perfect.  The cats are getting more of the fresh water they need and the ease of cleaning has made my life easier.  We're all happy with it.
5	1402531200	jsu great my cats didn't know exactly what it was a first then they sniffed around and sat with it till they got used to the thing. then hey started drinking from it.maintenance ... u must take it apart now and hen and get the cat hair out of the little black box it get sucked up into it.and clean the bowl every few weeks.I love that it has three or four settings and make s a nice water sound.
5	1402531200	I love this fountain...there is little noise from it and it doesn't get dirty easily. I do like the fact it is dishwasher safe. My cat does like the fact the water kind of bubbles up.
4	1402444800	I previously used a plastic water fountain for my cats, but it became difficult to clean after living in a house with hard water. I switched to this stainless steel fountain for easy cleaning. It's only a few pieces to pull apart for cleaning, and there are really no hard-to-reach crevices to worry about.Like other reviewers, the pump started off semi-loud. However, it's quieted down now after having the product for a few months. Even when the water gets low, it's not the pump signaling us to refill, it's the cats! They paw at the top piece of the fountain looking for more water.My cats both like the running water aspect of this fountain, but it offers a still water option as well.Try it! I know your cats will love it!
5	1402358400	Easy to clean, quiet, and keeps my cat's water continually fresh.  This fountain replaced a cheaper plastic one I'd been using with her for a few years and is definitely more sanitary and helped eliminate her swollen lips.
5	1402358400	So far so good.  Very easy to clean (which, unfortunately, was an issue with the plastic Drinkwell fountain).  Cats enjoy the water flowing from the spout.  Also the design is very nice.
5	1402358400	I have two cats and they would never drink very much water.  That isn't good for them-so I did some research and decided on this water fountain.  The stainless is a dream for keeping a clean fountain, the fact that it bubbles and moves a bit makes it more like &#34;nature&#34; and keeps my cats interested.  Plus, the filter keeps the water cleaner.  I see my cats at this water fountain frequently and they are drinking much more water!  Also, the motor is quiet, I hardly notice it. Pioneer did a great job with this design!  Thank you Amazon for offering this product!
1	1402358400	This fountain looks nice but takes lots of time to assemble.  I had to read reviews with 1 and 2 stars among which I have found onereview describing the problem I had and telling how to do it right. When the fountain was assembled, I started it and it workedfine but produced a loud sound. I kept it full to the rim but it did not help to reduce the sound  which was too loud for my 2 cats.Besides, I had an impression that the cats could not see the water because of the shiny mirror-like surfaces.Since one of my cats was just adopted from a shelter where he was drinking from a Drinkwell Original fountain, he was reluctantto drink from a water dish, so I had to go and buy another fountain. I decided to buy a Drinkwell Original, which unfortunatelyturned to be even louder than the Pioneer.  Both turned to be a waste. I would not recommend any of these fountains to thosewho consider to buy a fountain for the cats. They are pricy and poorly-made.
5	1402272000	I received it very quickly. My cats are loving this drinking fountain! I often find them dipping their paws in the moving water, It's fun for them and keeps them entertained. Now I need to purchase some filters for this thing as it needs to be changed out every few months..
5	1402272000	I have been wanting to buy a fountain for awhile, but not having a lot of locations to put it I was skeptical about buying one as a lot of them are big and take up a lot of space, so the cats were just drinking water so frequently that I couldn't keep up with it, so I found this and just relented. I was able to put it in the kitchen where it's not in the way (I have a very small L shaped kitchen) and I know one of the cats has found it and enjoys it, still haven't seen cat number two utilize it but her nose isn't dry so she must be getting to it in the night when I'm sleeping. I would recommend it, it's very quiet which is nice and the price was reasonable.
4	1402185600	It's a bit smaller than I was expecting and difficult to keep clean, but otherwise does it's job.  I still recommend stainless steal over plastic for these type of items.
5	1402185600	We have been through 3 water fountains with filters.  First was plastic (terrible to clean, plastic harbors bacteria).  Switched to ceramic (nicer, but heavy making it difficult to to clean and still got white scale on it and had to be tossed).  Stainless is the way to go!  Keeps water a lot cooler and both kitties love to drink from it
3	1402012800	The filter is a huge hindrance to the pump. I use some extremely purified water, so I just took the thing out and now it runs like a champ. I wouldn't recommend it otherwise, honestly&#8211; if at all. The edges are pretty sharp, as other customers mention. I've got a girly fear of a pump sitting in water; I'm terrified it will electrocute the cats. That's a personal issue, I think, but if the design has other issues there's no reason to have complete confidence in the wiring. However, both kittens think it's the bee's knees, as did the spider that lived under the lid for a few days... until a kitten ate him. So it goes.
3	1402012800	It's a beautiful fountain.  It gets a little bit loud sometimes since vibration from the motor moves the cord around and touches the bowl sometimes and makes a rattling noise.  My cats were kind of scared of it at first but got used to it pretty quick.  I wonder if the rubber part of the cord that's coming out from the motor doesn't affect the quality of the water??  It's starting to look like it has some corrosion from the water, I think.  I hope that the filter is good enough that it doesn't affect the taste or quality of the water but I doubt that the filter is that good.
2	1402012800	The idea of the fountain is good - stainless steel that can be sanitized easily, thus keeping your pet healthier. But this fountain is difficult to get together - the pump fits into a little plastic compartment and it has no outlet for the cord. you have to fold it and cram in out a seam and I know that won't last. Once you do that however, the pump does not push water up to act like a drinking fountain, but rather barely bubbles it up at all. The water water is basically still. And only 4 cups or so can be put in at a time.It sounded lie a great idea, but the execution is poor. I'm sending it back. Very disappointed.
5	1402012800	Purchased for my fussy cats who do not like standing water. Used daily, cleaned weekly and the cats play in it when they aren't drinking water from it.
5	1401926400	We used to have a plastic fountain long ago. I didn't get another one after it died. I like this one made out of stainless steel. It's easy to clean/maintain. Easy to put together. It has been running about 3 weeks now before I wrote this review. It's very quiet but my two cats were scared the c**p out of it at first because they were so used to water bowl. So I unplugged the power and let them get familiar with the bowl with still water. Sure enough, they were drinking from the new bowl. So I connected it to power 2 days later. Now they're both using it without problem. The cleaning part is not difficult at all. The stainless steel is easier to clean than plastic. I'm happy with this purchase.
3	1401926400	This is a great drinking fountain, low noise level and nice looking design.  Unfortunately, my cat will not drink from it.  I'm going to have to get one that has a waterfall type design that is more like a faucet.If your cat is ok with drinking on a slope/slant, then I would recommend it!
4	1401926400	My cat took a while to take to it but after reading some reviews I assume it was due to the new or plastic smell, but that wears off quickly and I notice my cat drinks much more water with this than a normal dish. Very easy to clean! Would buy again.
5	1401753600	I hardly ever leave product reviews, but this thing totally exceeded my expectations. Like lots of folks here, I have a diva kitty who refuses to drink out of anything but the faucet. I was getting worried that she wasn't getting enough water since she only drinks when I'm there to run it for her, so I got her this fountain. I've always been wary of these things because most of them are loud and bulky, but the Pioneer design is super sleek and minimal, and the motor is nearly silent. And most importantly, kitty LOVES it--especially the top part where the water bubbles out. She's already drinking so much more water on her own. I'm really happy with the price point, too. Definitely worth it.
1	1401667200	Ordered this & got what looked to be a repackaged/refurb product.  It didn't work.OK, fine, sent it back and got a replacement, this time a brand new one straight from the box.  Followed the easy set up instructions & nope... it also doesn't work.While I'd like to say that the two I've gotten are the only defective ones, I'd urge caution to stay away from this brand/product.  I know I will be going forward.
5	1401667200	My pets love this fountain.  The different areas for them to drink from is great.  Very good price and easy to clean.
5	1401667200	Cat approved.  Nothing more I can say. I feel better that the water is filtered. I pour filtered water into it making it double filtered.
5	1401667200	Great product! Easy to use and maintain. My cat loves it and is no longer bothering me to drink from the bathroom faucet. :)
5	1401580800	This pet fountain has solved my problems!  No more bowls overturned and water everywhere.  My cat, Malika, will drink from the bowl sometimes and from the fountain sometimes.  It was easy to put together, and easy to take apart to clean.  I am a very happy cat mom!
5	1401580800	cats love the stainless steel bowl and it stays cleaner then the plastic ones.great to buy and good for the pets
2	1401580800	It was very hard to clean and I felt like the filters were not working because it needed to be cleaned daily. Maybe it was a misconception of mine, but I was expecting to have to clean the bowel once or twice a week tops.
1	1401408000	This does not work. At all. I got a lot of motor humming, but no fountain action. It is going into the trash.
5	1401321600	My kitties love it.  It is very quiet.  When I hear it, it means I need to add water or clean it.
5	1401321600	I used to have one of those older plastic pet water fountains.  It had a lot of corners and was difficult to clean.  This unit has rounded edges, and with the optional cleaning brush, it is very simple to clean.
5	1401235200	This fountain is so much easier to clean and care for then the Petsmate I had for years previously.  Will continue to use this one!
4	1401148800	I got this for my cat, who was no longer interested in using his old water bowl for anything other than splashing around and pushing it around the house. After some initial hesitation, he's taken to this bowl, and drinks more water than he ever did before.PROS:1. It looks nice. The stainless steel presentation is classy.2. It's quiet. If the bowl is full, you can barely even hear it running.3. It's very easy to assemble.4. The cord is pretty long.5. Cat hair doesn't really affect the filtering mechanism.CONS:1. The bowl edges are sharp. If you're looking to pick it up and clean it, be mindful that the edges are thin and can cut yourself if you are not careful.2. While it's easy to clean, dirt can accumulate in places which makes it challenging to brush off with a sponge - like around the rim or inside the filtering mechanism itself. You'll have to put some elbow grease into brushing it off.3. The cord itself can be an attraction for a curious animal. I found chew marks in it from my cat. If you can spray it with a cat repellent or hide it under a mat, that should stop 'em from playing around too much with the cord.Overall, I'd recommend this product.
3	1401148800	It has a nice look and is good quality.  My only complaint is that it isn't as quiet as I would have hoped.
2	1400976000	I have had it for a few weeks now and it needs repair already because the pump doesn't work right. I don't recommend this product.
5	1400889600	This fountain is great. It makes no sound compared to my last 2 fountains. Sometimes I find myself checking to make sure it is still on.Also my dogs love it. thanks for a great product.
3	1400889600	Filter gets nasty after awhile. Simply cleaning out wont cut it... Formed a strange clear like jelly. I threw the whole thing out aafter the extra filters I had all did the same thing.
4	1400803200	This fountain needs water everyday or it makes noise.  If this fountain is not full it is loud which I guess reminds you to fill it.  My cats like it and is lightweight and easy to clean.
1	1400803200	Too bulky and a pain to put together also filter gets dirty quickly and the waterfall is lacking pressure . Wouldn't recommend
4	1400630400	While I certainly prefer the stainless steel over plasic when it comes to cleaning, the pump on this item failed after less than 6 months use.I never let it run dry.  I cleaned it weekly... faithfully.  Even bought special brushes to get into all the nooks and crannies.This morning it was making a strange noise and then it just quit.  Water level was right to the rim, as always.Correction:  After reading some of the other reviews, I realized that the pump could be disassembled.  I popped the 2 end caps off, gave it a good rinse and the pump started working again.  Must have had some cat hair caught in the impeller.Saved me $20 for a new pump.
4	1400630400	Usually, I don't make time to write reviews (although, I should since I read so many!).However, I have to write about this item.  We purchased it to keep fresh water outside for the stray cats (that are all spayed and neutered...please help control the stray population!). It works wonderfully, and surprisingly, even the scary feral cats drink from it. Water does have to be added to it at least every 2 days, and the bowl cleaned and filter rinsed at least 2-3 times a week.It has been a great investment of $41 when it was sold by Amazon in March 2014. . . come on Amazon, please sell it again, because I will buy more, but not for the current price.
5	1400544000	Have a cat and two Chihuahuas.  Cat loves fountain but dogs prefer bowel.  Momma loves how it all cleans up.
4	1400544000	I can't speak to the current issues regarding the engine conking out as I bought ours a couple of years ago.  I really like this fountain.  Here are my tips:Keep the fountain in a darker, non-sunny room.  It will stay cleaner much longer.  I put ours in a small bathroom with no window.  It made a huge difference!Clean it once a week.  I've gone as long as 10 days, but it's much dirtier.Use filtered water.  I use the filtered water from the fridge and the cat filter will last about a month.  Note, after cleaning, I fill it with regular tap water first, run it for a few minutes (to clean out any particles that have loosened up), pour the water out and refill with the fridge water.Use a kitchen scrub brush, dish soap and a Q-tip to clean it.  You don't need the Pioneer Pet brush.Once in a while, I plug it in after cleaning and the motor is running but the water doesn't come up.  Just unplug, wait a few minutes and try again.  It starts back up after a time or two.Most of the time it runs quietly.  However, sometimes it's a bit noisy.  It doesn't bother my cats, though.  Usually, I just add more water and it quiets down.
1	1400457600	I liked this pet fountain upon my initial purchase.  However, exactly one week after the refund period ended (and the day after I threw away the box) the pump stopped working.The motor is completely fried and cannot be returned now because the return window has expired - I've only had the fountain five weeks total.Needless to say, I am not that happy with this product and I would not recommend that anyone purchase this item unless you would like a very expensive water bowl.
5	1400457600	My cats are picky. Although there's always fresh water in their (now old) water bowl, they'd sit in the bathroom and meow so I'd turn on the sink's faucet. Apparently they prefer running water over stagnant water -- who knew?!Upon setting up the Pioneer fountain, my male cat immediately took to the fountain. I think he drank for like 5 minutes straight. He loves drinking directly from the fountain while the female cat prefers sipping from the bowl.The Pioneer fountain is super easy to clean, and I love that the hum of the little motor isn't very loud at all. I'd definitely recommend this product to all cat owners.
5	1400457600	This is perfect! When I first received it I thought it would be too small but actually it's easier to keep clean compared to the bigger ones. It's not as bulky as my ceramic one. All the kids go out of their way to use the water from stainless steel. I plan to get another one of these.
5	1400457600	This water fountain has been running for a year now in my kitchen, and it serves four cats plus a dog.  It's heavy enough so they can't tip it over, but light enough to carry to the sink for thorough washing when needed.  I normally just top off the water using a pitcher, but every week or so I take it and scrub all the surfaces and open the plastic filter/motor and clean it.  The plastic parts get pretty dirty, and the filter part has to be taken apart and cleaned, or replaced (they sell replacement filters for a couple dollars each, and I think you could get away with replacing them every month or two if you don't like cleaning them.) The filters have charcoal and filter fabric on each side and the little plastic prongs holding the filter together do break off after a few uses, so it would be a good idea to purchase a box of extra filters when you get this fountain.  I use a small scrubbing sponge to clean everything, but there is one hole that is hard to reach and you might need a small bottle brush, or you could purchase the 'cleaning tool' sold specifically for this purpose, for less than $8.  The dish still looks and works like new after a year of constant use.
3	1400284800	I have had several of these fountains and my cats love them.  However, the motor on this brand new fountain died the week after I got rid of the box; very unusual for that to happen. I will need to order a new motor or contact the company for a replacement. The fountain is usually quite good, and is easy to clean.  Normally, I would rate this a 5-start product, but because of the faulty filter, it lost points,
5	1400284800	I chose this water fountain for my 4 fur babies because it looked much easier to clean than the standard plastic water fountains I've used in the past. The cats took to it right away and I absolutely love it. It's not only easy to clean but it's kind of stylish too. Works like a dream. One thing though, if the water gets too low it grinds a bit even if you fill it back up the fountain doesn't work quite as well. Easy fix. Fill it, then unplug it and replug it and works great again.
4	1400112000	I have actually had multiple water dishes over the last few years, and recently have changed to all SS as a few of my cats have a plastic allergy.  I like this product because there aren't small places that need delicate cleaning, I just disassemble and put everything but the part attached to plug in the dishwasher and it come out mostly clean (see con below)pros:easy to cleanminimal partsbarely makes any noisecon:after a few mo, it gets that hard water staining on it that doesn't come off even with dishwasher or hand cleaningoverall, I am happy with the product, half of my cats drink from the still water, and the other half drink from the fountain.  I like that it gives both options and doesn't splash like other ones I have had previously.
5	1400112000	Easy to take apart and clean.Keeps my pets well hydrated.Filters aren't over priced.No plastic parts for the cats to rub against.
1	1400112000	I purchased this item a little over a month ago.  It worked well the first day.  After I washed it out, I had some problems with the motor, but my hubby wiggled some things and it worked again for a little while.  Then it just quit all together after less than a month.  It has been 1 month since I purchased it, and the company won't take it back!  A piece of junk!
3	1399939200	The pump on the pet fountain burned out after having the unit 4 months. I would not purchase this again.
1	1399939200	JUST WHEN MY CAT WAS STARTING TO GET USED TO IT AND GO NEAR IT.  I WAS HOPING TO SEE IF SOMEONE COULD SEND ME A NEW MOTOR TO TRY, BUT WHEN YOU GO ON AMAZON'S ORDER HISTORY IT GIVES YOU NO OPTIONS PAST 1 MONTH TO DO ANY KIND OF RETURN OR COMMENT OTHER THAN A REVIEW SO HERE IT IS.
2	1399939200	Maybe great for cats but for not your canine friends.  I had too RMA this item.  Didn't meet my expectations.
1	1399852800	The pump did not work at all.  We were never able to get it to work. I felt that perhaps the company had sent us a returned item. When I unpacked it, the packaging didn't seem secure. Be wary.
4	1399852800	I went through several Drinkwells (reviewed elsewhere on Amazon) before trying this.  This works better for us.Pro:  The stainless steel is far easier to clean than Drinkwell's plastic.  (The same would be true of Pioneer's ceramic, but we opted for stainless steel because it's unbreakable.)  Plastic retains chemical odors and residues, so that I hesitated even to use vinegar to clean the Drinkwell; no such concern here.  The rounded shape means there are no corners or crevices.  Disassembly is pretty easy (unlike Drinkwell).  The fountain is attractive; I don't mind having it in my living area (there's no convenient electrical outlet in the kitchen).  Noise level is quite tolerable as long as you keep this full.  Though I was afraid the cat would boycott this "slide" design after being accustomed to Drinkwell's "splash," after a half-day's wariness she decided she liked this just fine.Con:  This is a very thin gauge of stainless steel.  The motor is plastic (face it, we can't escape plastic), and taking the whole thing apart for a thorough cleaning costs me about 15 minutes every two weeks.  The switch for motor speed/flow force is pretty cryptic, not intuitive.  When reassembling, it takes some wiggling to get everything (motor, plastic housing, spout, lid) lined up just right....Pioneer really should have markings or indentations to make this easier.Tip:  Others have complained that the motor stops working after a relatively short time.  This has happened to me, too.  I've learned to clean the motor every 2 or 3 weeks.  Also, when replacing the entire water supply (as opposed to just "topping up"), plug the fountain into an outlet WHILE STILL EMPTY.  Then if the motor doesn't start up right away, give the motor's clamshell-shaped plastic housing a few increasingly sharp raps with the fountain's lid.  The motor WILL START.  Only then should you fill the fountain using a pitcher or other vessel.
2	1399766400	After the initial interest, usage fell off. We have a small house and could not get fountain to reliably stay quiet.
5	1399593600	I wasn't so sure if my cats would even pay any attention to this, but it took only a day and they were in love with this.  It's perfect for them, easy to clean, and quiet.  Happy cats make me happy, and they are very happy with their new water fountain, and so am I.
3	1399507200	My cat will drink out it and it is very quiet. The next one I buy will have the water acting as a fountain.
4	1399420800	This fountain style water bowl works well, but didn't create the fascination we hoped for - but that's not the fault of the product.
5	1399334400	This is the best watering dish I have bought.  We have had three different styles, this one is the easiest to clean, and it is so quiet!  It did take a little bit for the two cats to get used to it, but they seem very happy with it now.
5	1399334400	It was difficult to pick out a pet fountain, but after combing thru the reviews I picked this one. It is nice looking (for what it is), easy to assemble and easy to clean. I found that if it was making any noise, it was because I needed to add a little water. The cat was instantly attracted to it as soon as I plugged it in. I would say it is an awesome product, and I would recommend it to anyone!
5	1399248000	Got this product from Amazon warehouse deals.  It is the second time I have purchased this product.  My Bengal cats love the fresh water circulation and I like the filtering ability.  Would definitely recommend.
5	1399161600	This is a great fountain, we have 5 cats and they all love it. It seems like they drink more water now.
5	1399161600	I bought this stainless unit to replace my aged ceramic unit and it works nicely.  However, this one tends to vibrate more which is distracting.  I keep it placed in a low sided metal pan to avoid watering the floor when the cats get too enthusiastic, which wasn't an issue with the ceramic one but seems to add to the vibration and hum of the metal one.  I am still experimenting with cork under padding and such to see if I can reduce the noise.All said, it's a wonderful unit and I would buy another one when needed.
5	1398988800	Like others have said, it is easy to clean and is very quiet. We had a plastic water fountain before, and it was a pain to clean. It would take easily one hour each week to clean and put it back together. So far so good with this one!
4	1398988800	I ordered this expecting the water to be moving in the bowl.  The water slide area is nice, but not large enough &#34;pool&#34; of water.  This works for my cat, but if I had a large dog, none of the openings would suffice.Not Silent.  I've owned aquariums for 20 years.  They do make pumps that are silent.  Wish this had it.  May source one just for this reason.  Not a deal breaker, but something to be aware of.
5	1398988800	This is a very good fountain.  At first it was making too much noise and my cat was afraid of it.  Then I just took the topper off  (silver part that goes over the pump and lets water stream down) so that just the plastic pump holder with water sprout shows.  Now she loves it and is drinking from it all the time.  Sometimes she just likes to sit there and watch the water move around.  Super easy to clean and quiet.
5	1398902400	I have had this fountain for 4 years now with 3 cats. I tried to quit using it for awhile when I lost my two older cats because you DO have to clean it and though it doesn't take long, I was too lazy and thought the younger cat would drink from another bowl. However, there is no doubt in my mind that she drinks far more water from this fountain than any other source, and I've gone back to it.  She loves the bubble at the top AND the slide - which is what makes this so great, the others don't have that slide.  One of my other cats (who lived past 18) liked the pool at the bottom. If your cat has CRF, or isn't drinking enough, do try this.However, you must clean it every week and you MUST clean the pump - and that stupid plastic housing. I have now just worked it into my routine.  It is not hard to do once you know how but you must take a few parts apart.  Google "clean pump pioneer pet raindrop fountain" and you will see a youtube video on how to do it - which Pioneer Pet would do well to include in an instruction manual. AND all drink fountain owners need to know - YOUR pumps need to be taken apart and cleaned also - especially to get hair and bits out - or it will slow the pump down.  Every pump!  I spray everything - stainless steel, plastic housing, pump parts etc. - with vinegar, let it sit a bit, then wipe/rub with a clean rag and rinse very well.  It all DOES get a little slimy surface (prob from bacteria?) during use if you don't clean it  - but cleans up fine.  Once a week is optimal.  I'm sure you could put the big parts in the dishwasher - but I hate to have it unavailable that long :)If the pump goes, I'm sure you can order a new one - in fact, I need to do that now to have a backup!  The stainless steel fountain part is good forever and much, much healthier than plastic.  I had a drinkwell and one cat was afraid of it and it was much worse to clean - plus it was louder, and did not have that nice slide to drink from.
1	1398643200	Pump stopped working, and water filtration quality is poor.  On a daily basis when I could get the pump to work; the bowl felt slimy.NOT WORTH SPENDING YOUR MONEY ON!
5	1398643200	This is a great size and easy to assemble and clean without having to worry about residue like you would with plastic.  The only thing I am worried about is the splashing created by the fountain on top.  I have a little rug underneath of it, so the water gets on there, but after several days, I can see either molding, warping or discoloration happening depending on the material you have underneath.  I am going to watch that.  Otherwise, I really like it.
1	1398643200	I have had this for 1 week and the. Pump has already blown. What a waste of money, and my cat was drinking so much better with this.
1	1398556800	i was excited with this purchase after seeing a friend's stainless steel fountain. i was initially happy with my order but unfortunately the water pump broke in less than 3 weeks.
5	1398470400	I have never left a review on a product before since it takes extra time, but this one deserves it. I am much more impressed with this than I thought I would be. The unit is completely silent. You can't hear the pump or water.... at all. You DO have to put the pieces together carefully to ensure a completely silent function. Thirty seconds after I got it running, my very finicky cat would not stop drinking out of it! He absolutely loves it, and I am so happy I got it. My Mom bought another brand/type of fountain waterer for her cat, and it is SOOO loud and obnoxious. I told her to return it for this one. This is hands down a great buy. The manufacturer thought of everything: complete silence, no dripping water sound, no pump sound, a sleek design, appealing to pets, easy to clean. It's really great.
4	1398297600	Love the look of this fountain, I just wish it made more of a trickle sound and that we didn't have to clean it every week. It builds up a small amount of film on the bottom every 5 - 7 days.The cats seem to like it, as in they drink from it.
5	1398211200	Our cats went straight to the fountain and there is peace again at the bathroom sinks.  They no longer meow at the door for a drink.
5	1398211200	I have a lot of problems with the cats drinking out of standing bowls. I needed a new fountain and I saw this one. There's so many great things about this fountain. It is stainless steel. The only hard places to clean are in the plastic housing for the pump, but the unit is small and can be easily cleaned with a peroxide and water soak. The design offers a gentle bubbling section, a waterfall section and a quiet pool so any cat's fancy is met. Another plus is that the pump is easy to keep clean as well which is something many other pumps do not as they are completely enclosed.After setting up the fountain it only took minutes for my cats to drink contently. Thank you Pioneer Pet for a great product.
5	1398124800	I have had two other fountains, one plastic, one ceramic.  This is by far the easiest to clean and reassemble.  It also looks nicer and is very quiet. The only thing that bothers me are the water spots that show on the stainless steel, but it works great.  My cat had cat acne from the plastic fountain, and it has almost cleared up with switching to this one.
5	1398038400	This thing is incredible! My cats love it. At first they were a bit timid(about 72 hours) but soon after were lapping from it and playing in it with their paws. You have to keep the water line up and wash it diligently each week, for optimal results. I recommend buying the filters in quantities of six.Believe all the positive reviews you see here.
5	1398038400	I love this fountain. It is sturdy and the design is very pleasing to the eye. My cat loves the flowing water.
3	1397779200	We've had this for a couple of years. The cats love it but it is a pain to clean... or more to the point, to put back together again. Getting the plastic pump housing to clamp back together can take a while... and there have been times when I've spent over 30 minutes trying to get it so that the water flows out again. It would also be easier if the cable was on the same side of the motor as the cut out for it in the housing, because you have to make sure you have the cable pushed down well. We bought a stainless steel drinking fountain to replace a plastic one because of the risk of bacteria build up with plastic, and I was extremely disappointed to see this had plastic pump housing. It's a great concept, and better than other drinking fountains we've had in the past, I just wish they'd get the pump housing problem sorted.
5	1397779200	Our eldest cat was sick with kidney failure when I learned that most cats die from that illness.  The reason is that they don't drink enough water throughout their lives.  Cats are &#34;programmed&#34; by nature to only drink clean, fresh water, and running water is their favorite.  I bought a plastic fountain at the pet store, but I never felt like I could get it clean enough.  The Pioneer Stainless Steel Fountain took care of that problem in short order.  It is easy to take apart, and place in the dishwasher.  It comes out clean, sanitized, and ready to go.  My cats love the way the water bubbles up from the bottom of it.  I know they prefer it to the plastic fountain, because I must top off the Pioneer Fountain nearly every day, and the plastic fountain only every two or three days.  I have three cats of my own, and am usually &#34;fostering&#34; three or four more for a local rescue group.  These are cats who are recovering from surgery, or are waiting for space to open up in the shelter so they can go up for adoption.  I recommend the Pioneer fountain to anyone who has a cat.  I have a friend who brings her dog to visit, and the dog loves it, too.  It is definitely not just for cats!
4	1397692800	As other reviewers said, this is quiet and my cats love it. The only problem I have is that when it needs to be cleaned I have to unplug it and take the whole cord and plug with me to the sink. I think that it would have been smarter to have a disconnect point on the cord close to the bowl, but that's just me being nitpicky.
1	1397606400	Normally not write any reviews or recommendations, however I can not pass up this high, this product only lasted 10 days and not even me and stopped workingpoor quality
5	1397606400	It took about two weeks but the cats love it so that makes it OK with me. It was easy to put together and works fine. Sometimes you have to prime the pump by pouring a little water directly into it, but that's normal with any pump.
5	1397520000	I'd been meaning to get a cat-fountain for a while and really did some research into this one. The motor is quiet, the stream of water is properly aerated, and there's enough in the bowl to last my 5 Children of Bast a couple of days. They do, however, have water in both sink and tub but as soon as we gave them the Fountain they started using it. Even our oldest Cat --who is 15-- was able to use it and he was the one we bought the fountain for.The pump and the filter need changing every two weeks but if you rinse out the filter you get more life out of it and I do HIGHLY suggest you get the pump cleaning kit.We may consider to get the larger pump at a later date as it holds a full gallon which we could leave running for a weekend.Buy this: your Cats will Love it!
5	1397433600	I wanted my 4 cats to drink more water since we live in Florida and I  have tried other drinking fountains and found them hard to clean and hard to keep going,noisy and messy.  I decided to try a stainless steel one.  My cats love it.  The flow is good and steady, it only has three parts to clean including the filter, it is not noisy unless it runs out of water and then you'll hear it all over the house.  It doesn't splash even when filled to the brim.  It keeps the water cold for them and I can clean it in the dish washer if I have too as well as by hand.  It is easy to assemble three parts and the motor and they only fit one way.  I wish I'd found this before I expended money on others.  I read that pets should not drink or eat out of plastic dishes due to possible acni on their chins and pimples, that they should use glass, stainless steel, or ceramic.  I have glass and ceramic dishes for them and this drinking fountain that is stainless steel is just the ticket for their water.  They were not afraid of it since it made no noise or just a little gurgle which you don't notice.  The only draw back is you should check the water every other day or every day depends on how much your cat drinks since the fountain is a little smaller then most and needs refilling on a regular basis, I clean mine about once a week and have had no problems with dirty water etc.  I am thinking about buying another one for the other end of the house when they get older and slower.
1	1397433600	I really liked how this looked, and one of my cats enjoyed drinking out of it, but there are very obvious design flaws. First, there is a spot that the pump fits into, in the housing for the filter. The pump has suction cups beneath it, and when it loses suction (which it will) it will stop pumping the water correctly, and you will have to disassemble it to readjust it. This is annoying, because the power cord wraps around the inside of the housing for the filter, and its relatively difficult to put in place. I had to do this about 5 times in the two days that I had this unit. Far more time consuming than it should be. After two days, the pump stopped working completely, regardless of adjustments. When it was plugged in it just wouldn't turn on.Also, I bought this because one of my cats has a problem with pawing the water out of her water bowl and after reading reviews, I was hopeful that this would solve the problem, but it did not...it just caused much more water to flow to the floor after she tipped it, since the reservoir is so large. However, my other cat enjoyed it very much, so I originally intended to keep it regardless, until it stopped working. Overall, it is very disappointing and not worth the money whatsoever.
5	1397347200	I've purchased and returned many other fountains and was very unhappy - the price really wasn't an issue - my cats didn't drink more water then from a regular dish. They were hard to clean and the vibrations were upsetting them.  I was very leery trying yet another - but I did and am glad that I did.Both my cats drink so much more water - this makes me happy and I know they are happy. One drinks from the waterfall and the other doesn't have a preference. I especially like that it is stainless steel and easy to clean.I would highly recommend this and have to all my friends with cats and dogs.
4	1397260800	This was running fine for a month or so....  but I went on a trip and the base ran dry so the pump burned out.  Just an expensive piece of weird looking modern art that I use for a cat water bowl now.  Update- purchased a replacement pump and now my cats once again have flowing water. I updated the stars from 2 to 4 after replacing the pump.
4	1397174400	The first time I got this product,  the motor went out on me within 2 months even though I followed all of the cleaning and maintenance directions.  I sent in a email telling the company this and they sent me a brand new fountain that's working great. My cats love the fountain and it encourages them to drink more water. Definitely happy with this product!
4	1397088000	My cat always begged at the sink for someone to turn on the water so he could drink from the stream, since buying this fountain he rarely begs at the sinks. He seems to enjoy drinking from the fountain and the stream. It really is perfect for what it does and I would have given it a 5 except that it has clogged quickly and needed to be taken apart and thoroughly cleaned and it seems I have to add water quite often to keep it running quietly.
4	1397088000	I bought this because both of my cats should drink more water according to our Vet. The day I set it up my female cat hissed at it and followed a wide path if she had to walk by it. She still kind of stares at it, but she gets closer now. She still doesn't drink from it though. It took a couple of days, but then the male cat started to drink from the bowl part. Now he likes to lick the water stream. :-)
5	1397001600	The water fountain is quiet, like the hum of a refrigerator but lower.  Cats got used to it and their water consumption went up dramatically as a result.
1	1396483200	Update:  The pump in the unit failed one day after the Amazon return window expired.  However, I have to say Amazon was good about the return/refund.  They issued an instant refund (via a chat session) and are sending me the return label.  I don't have the box any longer, but that's a small inconvenience.  Cheers to Amazon; avoid this product, though.--------------------------This bowl is OK; it looks good, with a chrome/stainless finish.  It has a filter in the pump, and can be disassembled for cleaning.  It's a little more difficult to clean than a regular bowl, and the plug for the motor disconnects at the end of the cord, so you have to take the entire bowl and the cord to the sink to fill/clean it.  I'm not sure that the circulating water really has much of a benefit...but it does look pretty cool.
4	1396396800	I have been using it for a week and it works well, my cats used without a problem, and the water looks clean all day. I put some water twice a day to keep it full. The noise that the pump makes is pretty soft, no human or cats complains of it.The material is pretty good, but the shelf of the pump is plastic material, I would prefer that this part also would be stainless steel.You have to clean the bowl once a week, the filter works for two to four weeks, according to the manual says, I didn't have to change it yet. There is also a instruction to clean the pump, I didn't do it neither, but I will.
4	1396396800	They love the fresh filtered moving water!  But if I don't keep filling it daily, the motor starts making more noise and then my dog barks at it; lol.  I just have a liter bottle in the kitchen which I use for refilling it.  I also cleaned it thoroughly the other day which wasn't a big deal, very easy.  And ordered some filters; you can get a 4-pack on Amazon for ~$10.  It sounds like the motor needs to be taken apart and rinsed only when it stops working well, which is not too often; also not a big deal.
5	1396396800	We got a rescue cat, she wouldn't drink from a bowl and we had to change her over to wet food because she was getting so constipated. Tried several fountains ($40, $60, $30) she would not even look at them. Saw this one advertised and decided this was a last shot - if she wouldn't drink from this we would have to accept wet food forever. Put it together, added the water and she was at it in less than a minute. There is a little noise if it starts to run low on water but top it up and it goes back to silent again- at least I cannot hear it! The filters were expensive locally but then I found them on Amazon and cut the cost in half. Cleaning is easy and it still looks as shiny and new as it did when we got it. Great buy!
5	1396310400	I LOVE this fountain.  It holds more water than the non-electric plastic and, because it is stainless steel, it not only stays clean longer, it's very easy to clean. The noise from the small motor is minimal.  I contacted the manufacturer at one point and they were more than responsive to my question and even sent me a 3 pack of filters.I would recommend this fountain for cats and small dogs.  Water is fountain fresh and both my cats love it.  For a treat, I drop an ice cube in the water and I watch the cats as they watch in fascination as it swirls around in the water until it melts.Great product!
5	1396310400	The cats love this fountain. I love it because of its minimalistic yet well thought-out design. About a year+ into it, the motor stopped working. On the off-chance of responsive customer support I called the company directly, to inquire if I could purchase a replacement and they were incredibly prompt to offer me a new motor at no charge. It arrived in a couple of days, and we were back in business. Impressive customer service!
1	1396224000	1. No matter what you do, you can see the pump from the outside.2. The pump died after just 36 hours of use.  Thankfully well within the return period.
5	1396224000	This is a great fountain and both our cats love it!  One likes to drink from the top and the other one from the bottom.  Cleans up easy and replacing the filter is a snap!  Treat your pets to a fancy fountain, I recommend this one, and so do our two kitties!
1	1396137600	I really like this design but the water pump stopped working after the first few cleanings. I returned the product and received a replacement. Once again, the water pump stopped working after the first two cleanings. I give up.
3	1395964800	It took my cats a few weeks to decide if it was poison or water. Now they mostly play in it and in the process of cleaning themselves drink some water. They prefer the toilet. But every now and then our Calico really enjoys a long drink.
5	1395964800	I have one cat who is obsessed with fresh from the tap water.  Water must be flowing to pass his approval.  If it isn't, then he will still jump up on the sink and attempt to lick the screen on the faucet.  So it was with some urgency that I bought this water fountain.  Upon unpacking it, it claims that you should change the filter every two weeks!  What!  I don't thinks so.  This is San Francisco with the best tasting tape water in all of California.  We love our Hetch Hetchy water.  I just keep it filled and clean it out every now and then and the cats are happy.
4	1395964800	Easy to assemble and clean.I've noticed a few times that the water doesn't flow as well, but if I'm diligent about keeping the water totally full, that seems to help.
3	1395964800	This seemed like the perfect fountain to get for a small space, but it always seems to have a slight rattle or buzz, so you would want to be sure it isn't in a place that this would bother you. It took awhile for our cats to decide it was acceptable (probably because of the noise), but now they like it and use it regularly.It does seem to need cleaning fairly often, but that is probably because I have cats that like to clean their teeth with water!
5	1395964800	I've had fountains before that grew mold easily & this one doesn't. It's quite and after having it running for about a day my cat warmed up to it and loves it.  She drinks a lot more water than she used to because of it!
2	1395792000	Bought this about 8 months ago during the summer months. Initially both cats were curious & seemed to occasionally use but as winter came & it got drier in our house pretty soon they would get &#34;electric&#34; shocks when they went to touch it. Obviously after a few shocks they stopped using it all together. So it wasn't long before the only time they wanted to have anything to do with it was when I cleaned/changed the filter. I've since taken it apart and plan to look into getting a ceramic model instead.
5	1395792000	The Fountain Raindrop water fountain is great for my cats.  I think it encourages them to drink more water which is healthy.  It is very quiet.  I drain it and change the water every week.  (If I forget, the little bubbles near the filter remind me.)  I put a reminder on my calendar to change the filter every month.
5	1395705600	Just what the cat wanted! My little Anakin just loves his new fountain. Using them in past have been a pain due to leaking and having to clean every day. Steel is the way to go! Keeps the water nice and cool just like he likes it and clean! Since the bowl is one piece and the motor is houses within the bowl - no leaking!!! He also gets the nice stream which so loves so much - he doesn't cry for the faucet to be turned on as much anymore!
3	1395705600	I love the concept of this product, and love the design... I wanted a non-plastic water fountain for my cats... Supposedly, they might drink more by seeing moving water, which makes sense-- moving water suggests that the water is fresh as opposed to stagnant. I've read quite a few mixed reviews here, so let me offer some sensibility here, because I feel that a few of the negative reviews are a bit exaggerated.The motor is not particularly loud at all, although it IS a motor with moving parts and therefore WILL produce sound, so if you've had a standard water-bowl that just sits there and suddenly switch to this motorized water-fountain that continuously circulates flow then OF COURSE it's going to seem &#34;noisy&#34; by comparison... But is this unit actually noisy??? No, no more than any tiny electric pump would be. Does this unit make a soft but constant hum that seems louder the closer you get to it??? Yes, of course it does. Will your pets mind the noise??? I don't know; buy it and find out... One of my 3 cats enjoyed this fountain immediately, a second cat took his time getting used to it (we have a standard water-bowl elsewhere as an option) but likes it now, and the third cat seems to avoid drinking from it.I really love the concept, the flowing shape, the reflective chrome-look, and the design of the unit... The reason why I've rated it only 3 out of 5 stars is because I just can't get over how useless the filter appears to be... It just sits there in the water... I'm no engineer, but-- as far as I know--water is filtered by passing THROUGH charcoal filters such as this... This unit is a fountain, which-- by definition-- moves water... And yet it's not engineered for the water to move THROUGH the charcoal filter. Instead, water circulates within the basin while the charcoal filter just sits there within it. Again, I admit that water filtration systems are not my forte, and so maybe I'm missing something; maybe just dropping a charcoal filter to sit inside a basin of water is all it takes to successfully filter it, but usually such filters work by filtering water THROUGH them, don't they?Anyways, I actually do like the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain with the Raindrop Design... I just think that the filtration system is ineffective, a bit of a joke, and a racket to bleed the consumer of more money... I still have to change my water frequently, because it gets weird-looking, cloudy strands of goo floating around in it after 5 days-- a phenomenon that does NOT occur with water left in our stainless steel watering bowls. What's worse is that strange &#34;debris&#34; persists even after cleaning the bowl and changing the water several times consecutively... Perhaps the filter &#34;captures&#34;, keeps, and dilutes such wispy, slimy-looking debris, forcing the consumer to change them (and purchase them) more frequently. (I change my filters about every 2 or 3 weeks.)
4	1395619200	So it's known cats do not drink enough water. Most have to be 5% dehydrated before they even get up to walk to the water bowl. I wanted to add this fountain to encourage our cat to drink more. She's never really drank from a faucet though so I wasn't sure how she would like this. It took about a week before she would go near it. Even then it was several more weeks before I saw her drink from it. (I know she had been before b/c I had to refill it)So it does make a noise which takes some getting used to so leave it out a few weeks and give your cat a chance, but don't take away other water sources. You can't let the water level get too low or it will make a louder noise and water splashes. I find myself adding water about once/week. She doesn't drink from the stream part, only the bowl, but I like that the water is constantly circulating. With her old bowl water sits, develops a ring around it, has to be cleaned constantly as a result - not the case with this fountain.I still keep an extra water bowl upstairs so she has water options on every floor of the house, but very pleased with this purchase if only that it keeps me from having to clean the bowl out so often. I imagine if you have a cat who likes to drink from a running faucet they would love this even more.
5	1395532800	this water fountain is the best I have had..it really keeps the water clean and fresh..my cat loves it and so do I
5	1395446400	This is the best fountain I have tried so far. Very easy to put together and very well made. The cats love it.
5	1395360000	Haha.  He's a finicky one, but I can hear him drinking from it all the time.It's fairly easy to clean, the top part comes off and inside is a small plastic clam-shell filtration case that holds the small carbon filter.The only thing I don't like about it is that it sometimes starts vibrating loudly, a bit noisy. All I do is gently step on the top piece and it quiets down again.  The top (metal) part starts rattling in the bottom part that holds it.  It's a small design issue, probably unavoidable, and I'm not going to ding a star for that.Best thing is it's solid stainless steel, very well made, and I'd drink from it myself.  And my cat deserves no less.
4	1395360000	My cat Miss Midnight does not drink from this fountain. It does work and shipping well.I wanted to get her to drink more since she has stones in her bladder. I thought this would entice her like the description, reviews and pictures suggest. But she doesn't even drink out of it. Now, what do i do with it?Here's my conclusion, I've had cats that would jump into the tub after shower and lick the water. I think those types of cats would use this fountain. Miss Midnight doesn't do that although i have used the strategy to have water bowls in odd places and i've seen her drink then.Also, this is a small container so a medium to larger dog would not be as effective because they would drink so much water out of the fountain, so you would have to replenish the water almost daily.
1	1395273600	I had not had this fountain for more than 3 months when the motor burned out and I had to pitch the whole thing.  For the money invested it was a large loss!!!
5	1395187200	This pet fountain is a lifesaver, or more precisely, a sleep night saver for me. We have two cats: Rusty and Humus. Despite the 3 bowls of water that we put for them in different rooms of the house, Humus loves drinking fresh water out of the kitchen sink. I knew I was in trouble when he started meowing in the middle of the night while standing on the counter, waiting for me to open the tap and wait for him to slowly lick the water. I felt I had a newborn baby in the house as I walked around lacking sleep, yawning all day. I knew I couldn't go on like this. The other reason I bought this pet fountain is Rusty.Rusty loves drinking out of the toilet bowl. He'll drink water there with gusto as if it was Champagne. His romance with the toilet bowl was rudely interrupted when we switched our toilet to a dual flush system where there's hardly any water accumulating into the bowl. Rusty would walk away sadly from the toilet, after trying and trying to reach in for his daily ration of champagne, just to see it was beyond his reach...I had to do something for my sad little pets (not so little, as Rusty was already old when he came to us some 4 years ago, probably that fountain of champagne keeping him young)...Then one day, Eureka! I ordered this stainless steel fountain. It took a few good days for Humus to get used to it. But now he drinks and relishes drinking from it, sipping slowly, while I get good nights of sleep. Rusty took to the fountain like water... I couldn't be happier...the fountain hardly makes any noise. We keep it on all the time as I heard it would make the pump last longer. Love it!
4	1395014400	This product is easy to clean and definitely help my cats drink more water.  The only wish I have is that the PUMP could be stronger.  The fountain is easy to clean and goes well with my home decor.
1	1394928000	Junk. Plugged it in. It does ZERO. Overpriced worthless piece of crap that is being returned. Pump doesnt work. Save your money
3	1394928000	It works well but requires a lotta filter changes to keep &#34;doggy slobber&#34; from clogging filter.  It requires more water and filter changes than I thought necessary.  Bowl and water get pretty &#34;slimy&#34; often.  Even though we use &#34;reverse osmosis&#34; filtered water, it still requires a lot of water/bowl cleaning/filter changes a coupla times a week - and we have only a single dog (cocker). Good idea but needs more &#34;filtering&#34; media.
5	1394841600	We bought this because our black cat has been diagnosed with chronic renal failure and drinking water is key for his health. I took the advice of other reviews and rinsed it numerous times to remove the rubber gasket smell. When we first put it down, our orange cat thought it was like an indoor bird bath (cat bath?) and starting splashing the water everywhere. The black cat walked away. We cleaned it up and set it on a tray to contain the splashes and left the regular water bowl near by. The next day the water level was down considerably, the tray was dry and I saw the black cat taking a nice long drink! Success! It is extremely quiet and a week later they are still drinking more than they were from their ceramic bowl.
4	1394755200	My cat LOVES this fountain. He was always drinking from the toilet or a drippy faucet rather than his water dish, now he drinks from only this. And because he loves it so much he is remarkably better hydrated. His fur is softer, he has less dander, and the cat acne on his chin has entirely cleared up. It's amazing what getting the proper amount of water will do for a body...human or feline! The fountain is very quiet, easy to clean, and after a month is still working as good as the first day. I highly recommend!
1	1394755200	The bowl was nice but the pump quit working less than 30 days my cats r mad I'm mad I wasted the $ now I have a bowl extra filters and no pump so no fountain amazon really! I thought I'd go thru u instead of PetSmart but not again! Had it 35 days and it quit working, 5 days short of return policy.
5	1394668800	Trying to get our cat to drink water was becoming a challenge.  She only wanted to drink out of a glass filled at the tap.  Since this, she has been drinking water like crazy.  Very good product and really well designed.
5	1394668800	Great design and easy to clean. I clean it once per week by taking every piece apart. It works great and it's very quiet. I do have to put water in it every morning, however, but that's really not that big of problem. I highly recommend. I have two cats and they each drink from a different side of the fountain.
5	1394582400	The moment I took this out of the box my cat wouldn't stop poking around to see what I was up to.  I have never seen him drink so much water - he absolutely loves this fountain.  Very happy with the purchase.
4	1394496000	I bought this fountain a couple of years ago when my old kitty began to prefer slurping water out of the water feature I had set up in the living room. I didn't want Miss Fish Breath putrefying the decorative waterfall and worried that she wasn't drinking out of her plain ceramic bowl in her feeding area. So, I figured this might be a good compromise to get her to drink plenty of water and to keep the water feature clean and pleasant. It worked! She often lays down on the floor with her front legs wrapped around the fountain and drinks frequently.I like the sturdiness of this model; The stainless steel is long lasting and washes easily with a vinegar and dish soap mixture. It is a little bit of a hassle taking all the pieces apart and reassembling it, but it's nice to have a happy cat.
4	1394496000	it is very easy to clean, is very quite running. my cat likes it. the only negative is when you have to take apart the pump apart to clean itit is difficult.
5	1394409600	Took a week for my cat to use it, you know how they are...  now she drinks from it 3x or more a day...  quiet as can be.  I add water every day, clean it every 2 weeks and replace the filter every 3 weeks.  I have one adult cat.  There's u-tube video on how clean it...be sure u take the motor part apart and rinse that or some times it won't work.. I've had it about 3 months.  Should have gotten one a long time ago..
4	1394409600	This water dish is quite attractive and VERY quiet, which is a huge perk to me. I can't hear it from the couch, even though it's only about 5 feet away. My cats seem to like it, although they ignore the fountain part at the top and just drink from the main area.My only complaint so far is that the water seems to evaporate much quicker than my last water fountain. I think it's because it comes out near the top and cascades down, which is a cool visual effect but I think makes the water evaporate much faster. And because there is no additional reservoir, I've had to top off the water much more frequently than I'm used to. It's at the point that if I leave the house for a few days, I add a second water dish nearby. Not a deal breaker, but not quite what I wanted either.So:PROSQuietAttractiveCONSWater levels evaporate quicklyNo extra reservoir
4	1394409600	I have had a pet water fountain before and have had bad experiences with them because they are plastic. I love this fountain. So far so good.
3	1394236800	I think this product was made well enough for a small pet. I expected it to be a heavier steel. I made a low humming noise that my cats did not like, and were afraid to go near it. (Both cats are sink drinkers) This would be a good choice for a dog or cat that is used to a pet fountain.
2	1394150400	Overall the idea is great, but the noise this generates is louder than I anticipated.  Not sure if it's from the pump causing vibration or poor workmanship.Anyone else experiencing this?
3	1394064000	I bought it because it was stainless steel - I don't want my cats water sitting in plastic all day. She loves running water - but it would make her happier if the water actually fell like a mini-waterfalls, as in other water dish designs. All in all - she does drink the water more than I think she drank from the sitting bowl. I would recommend it to anyone - but I wish they had a waterfall type design to offer also.
5	1394064000	I think this is a great fountain. Easy to clean and dishwasher safe. The only problem is my cat. He just didn't like it. He has a thing for water flowing from the faucet so I had to get a fountain that has a stream instead of the bubble. But don't let that deter you, your cat could be crazy about it and you will to as it is so easy to assemble and clean.
5	1393891200	I have a Maine Coon, and I've spent a small fortune on pet fountains over the years, especially Catit fountains.  At first, everything would work fine...and then cleaning time would roll around, and suddenly I'd have a leaky mess destined for the garbage sooner than later.  (In all fairness, I'd never spent more than $30 on a fountain until now.)  I spotted this during the Christmas deals and decided it was worth a shot.  The reviews and design suggested something I might be able to take apart and clean without destroying it, and I wanted a stainless steel or ceramic fountain to avoid the inevitable scratches that come with plastic anyway.I absolutely love it.  The bottom is a single stainless steel bowl that the top fits into.  The pump is encased in a plastic housing that the filter is inserted into.  Yes, I have been cleaning it every 2-3 weeks, but it's gloriously easy to do: unplug, take the metal top off, the housing out of the bottom and the pump out of the housing, scrub everything down, rinse it and let it dry, and put it all back together again.  For the first time EVER I managed to clean a fountain and put it back together without even the smallest leak; it took me about fifteen minutes, if that.  I even took the pump apart, cleaned it, and put it back together without any problems.  (FYI, there's a video on youtube by Pioneer on how to take your pump apart that I highly recommend.  It's step by step, which makes things so much easier.)  It's very quiet; it starts making a little bit of a splashing noise when the water runs low, which just means I top it off every other day.It took my cat a couple of weeks to get used to it, but he's the type that thinks anything new in the house is a scary monster that wants to eat him.  I just left it down, and he gradually started using it.  He drinks probably twice as much as he used to if his litter box is anything to judge by, and I've seen him drink from both the bowl and the fountain without hesitation.  Now he likes to drop toys into it, but that's a whole new problem I can't really blame on Pioneer.
3	1393804800	Kind of a pain to clean out because you have to completely take it apart, but otherwise it works just fine.
4	1393718400	My cats took to this fountain like it was smothered in cat nip. I'll walk by and the cats will be laying in front of it staring at it or playing with it. I've never seen them drink so much water. My dogs have also taken to it. It took my chihuahua a little longer to approach, but now everyone has increased their water intake. Only reason I gave it 4 stars is because it makes more noise than the big max. I bought both one for upstairs and one for down. If it's making to much noise just put your finger in the bowl and slightly adjust the filter housing until it stops.
4	1393718400	I was worried my cats wouldn't drink from this product. All 6 of my cats love to drink from this fountain, it is easy to clean
4	1393718400	Also, light weight and appears durable. Packaging was excellent.However, it's a bit noisy. I'd not like it in the bedroom for that reason but the hum isn't a problem in the kitchen area..After a week, my indoor cats, conservative to the core, have not yet mustered up the courage to try drinking from it. They have seriously studied it several times.The mind of a cat is a mystery. I hope our big tom cat tries drinking from it before he attacks it. ;-)
5	1393718400	This fountain is absolutely amazing.  I wish I found it years ago.  This thing is incredibly silent.  The sound of my breathing is louder than this fountain.  I'm also very happy about the stainless steel because my kitties tend to have chin acne from their plastic water dish, so this should help with that.I have been using the Drinkwell Platinum Pet Fountain for about five years and this blows that out of the water.  I'm on my third pump for the Drinkwell in that time and as everyone who has one of those fountains knows, it's such a hassle to clean.  Don't get me wrong, the Drinkwell is a nice fountain but I'm so much happier with this Pioneer Pet fountain.  Obviously, this water reservoir is not as large as the Drinkwell but the other benefits far outweigh that one issue.  I was greatly surprised at how quickly and easily this fountain assembles.  It's also SO much easier to clean than the Drinkwell.  The biggest benefit for me is even if the Pioneer Pet fountain malfunctions, there's not going to be water spilled everywhere.  Not so with the Drinkwell.  You could put the reservoir back on wrong or even have the fountain itself not snap back together properly after cleaning which just results in water everywhere.  Those kinds of accidents aren't possible with this fountain.I'll have to wait and see how long the pump and filters last, but so far I'm thrilled with this fountain.  I like it so much that I am purchasing a second one just to have at the other end of the house.
3	1393632000	Pump pushes water up and over the top of the unit.  Material of the fountain is prone to water and mineral spots making it difficult to clean.  Have seen corrosion around the rim of he unit which suggests that it is either an inexpensive or combined stainless steel material.  Will try porcelain fountain when this one wears out.
1	1393632000	I ordered one last week, despite the large number of reviews about the bad pumps. I should have listened. Put it together (and the cats were excited at the prospect of their new water fountain), plug it in, nothing. Of course, the directions say to let it run a couple minutes to get the pump working. Still nothing. Not chancing it. Exchanging it for a different product.
2	1393632000	I ordered two of these because they were all out of stock in the uk.  They were delivered promptly, well packaged and were good value.  However, after paying postage it was cheaper than the UK which I didn't mind because it meant I got them soon. However, nowhere on the advert, or the box or the instruction did it say that it was not compatible with our voltage (which I have since learned is different from the UK)  within 30 secs of using both of them they stopped working and apparently this is because you cannot put 120v plugs into our UK Sockets.  I didn't know that so both motor have blown within the first minute of using these and I have had to pay extra money to purchase replacement UK motors for both machine.  There should  have been a warning saying that this would not work in UK when the company are prepared to ship the product to the UK.  Very disappointed as its taken me a week to source a UK motor and now Amazon.co.uk have them in stock anyway.  So completely out of pocket.
3	1393545600	My first experience with this fountain wasn't good.  It stopped working within the first three weeks.  The pump just stopped pushing the water out.  Since this is not the first pet fountain I have owned it was not user error.  Fortunately, the seller was wonderful and sent another one.  This one is still working, a year later, however the pump hums very loudly.  The hum even drowns out the beautiful sound of falling water.  I keep this in our bedroom for our cats and at night I unplug it.
5	1393545600	So few parts make this Pet Stainless Steel Fountain super easy to clean.  I like to give my cats fresh water everyday and this design is so easy to rinse out and refill.  I love it and so do my cats!
1	1393459200	I had this in place for 1 day, working great!  Then I walked out and noticed the fountain had stopped working.  After taking everything apart per the instructions on their website, the motor was still not working.  Don't bother with this...while it looks great, it is totally useless in design if the fountain isn't on.
5	1393459200	I had a plastic drinking fountain for my cats when they began developing feline acne from the plastic. I use no ceramic or plastic feeding bowls and I don't know why I didn't realize a plastic drinking fountain wouldn't have the same effect. This fountain is classy looking and the cats love drinking out of it. And best of all - no more painful and ugly black sores on their mouths.  A good hint - It can get the floor a bit wet, especially as my cats like to drink with their paws, but I solved this by going to a thrift store and buying the flat glass pan that came off a microwave turntable to go under it. This eliminates the dampness, cleans up easily, and looks great too.
5	1393372800	I read a lot of customer reviews before choosing this product, and it was everything that I expected.  The stainless steel material is much cleaner and less prone to bacteria buildup that other materials.  It is SUPER EASY to clean - 5 minutes max!  The replacement filters are inexpensive and quick to replace.  It runs quietly with a reservoir as well as a fountain.  It holds lots of water, yet it doesn't splash.  I am extremely pleased with it.  I just wish I'd known about it sooner!
5	1393372800	This is a very nice quality dish.  At first my cat ignored it and after about 3 weeks, she has taken to it.  She actually enjoys drinking from this fountain.  I am totally happy with this product.  It is easy to clean too!
5	1393372800	Love this filtered water fountain for my three cats. Two of them can drink out of it at the same time. It's a cinch to take apart and rinse out when filter change is required. Would definately recommend this product.
5	1393200000	I popped this baby together in minutes after taking it out of the box, and was so excited to see it work. Alas, though the pump hummed away, the fountain didn't function. I was so disappointed (as were my kitties, who missed their Drinkwell Platinum which just gave up the ghost after four years). I decided to contact Pioneer Pet's customer service, and received a prompt and courteous response.I discovered that I simply hadn't aligned three pump elements properly: the pump spout must match up with the case spout, which must match up with the hole on the silver lid. It took a little jiggling around of the pump spout to get it assembled right, but was no big deal once I understood what I'd done wrong. There is a video on the Pioneer Pet site that shows proper assembly: [...]I got everything aligned, and immediately a bubbling gush of water came out of the spout. I like this better than the Drinkwell fountain because it is so quiet, so pretty, and SO much easier to clean. I dreaded cleaning (and even refilling) the Drinkwell fountain. I'd get water everywhere. With the Pioneer Pet fountain, I simply keep a cup in the bathroom to add more water each day. It's a dream. The kitties are still drinking lots of water from it, though I think they miss the waterfall of the Drinkwell, which provided visual entertainment for them.Nevertheless, if mama is happy, everybody's happy...and in this case, mama is happy. :)
4	1393200000	This is not the first pet fountain that I have owned, but the fact that it is stainless steel makes it easier for cleaning, and the catsseem to like it a lot.
5	1393113600	This fountain is perfect for my 3 cats.  The fountain has both a &#34;fountain&#34; area and a &#34;standing water&#34; area.  This is helpful for my cats as I have 1 who prefers bubbling water and 2 who prefer standing water.  It is heavy enough to prevent my paw dipper cat from moving the fountain and causing water spills.  Cleaning and filter changes are simple and the fact that it is stainless steel makes hard water buildup a non-issue (I use vinegar to remove hard water buildup).  It is also quiet and attractive.  Overall, I am very pleased with this purchase.
4	1393027200	Fountain is beautiful and works perfectly. However, it is larger than I anticipated and takes up a lot of room in my small kitchen.
5	1393027200	Replaced my Fresh Flow fountain with this one about 2 months ago.  Am very please that I made the change.  This fountain is streamlined, easy to assemble, as well as,  disassemble for cleaning.  This is so much easier and less trouble to clean, which makes weekly cleaning much less of a chore. The stainless steel seems more hygienic and there are no &#34;nooks and crannies&#34; that are hard to clean--I  feel like I am able to get it a lot cleaner than the previous fountain which had  multiple parts and hard to reach/clean areas.  The pump is quiet and works wonderfully.  There is a strong, steady stream of water at all times.  I love the modern design and the fact that there are 3 &#34;options&#34; of drinking:  from the pool, the fountain spout, or the stream. My cat has a long history of urinary issues and it's very important for him to drink lots of water; and, with this fountain he seems to do so.  I don't know if it's just my imagination, or if it's because of the stainless steel, but, the water always seems to be cold,which my cat appears to appreciate.  I went ahead and ordered extra filters when I placed the order, just to be on the safe side as I haven't seen filters like this in stores in my area.  Would most definitely recommend this water fountain.  Well worth the money for the quality and ease of cleaning and use!
5	1392940800	This stainless steel fountain is very nice.  I love the thought of my large male cat drinking more water and hopefully preventing future problems.I read a lot of other reviews that said it took other peoples cats several days to adjust to using it, but it took one of my cats 5 minutes, and another one 7 minutes.  No complaints there!  One of my cats drinks from the bowl portion, and the other seems to enjoy drinking from the little river!  It is also very quiet (makes less noise than I expected)Overall, I am very pleased with this fountain.Update: 2 months later and the fountain is still going strong.  The cats seem to drink more and more water every day.  Still very happy with my purchase :-)
3	1392854400	(bought at Petco).  Not sure this was worth the price, as my cat doesn't seem to drink much more than she did from her old bowl, and it's annoying to have to add water every day to avoid loud rattling from the pump.  I used to use a stainless steel bowl for her water, so I just put down the new fountain in the same place but didn't plug it in.  She immediately got the idea, and after seeing her drink a couple of times I plugged it in.  The manual is poorly organized and I missed the part about cleaning the pump motor, so I called Pioneer after finding scum and they said to clean the motor EVERY TIME.  It took forever, but finally the soft skinny flexible tip of a Wisp &#34;toothbrush&#34; got into all the tiny corners of the motor assembly where the scum was lurking.  Hopefully rinsing will be enough now that I'll be doing it regularly.
4	1392768000	My cats absolutely love this fountain. I had another model where the water spilled from a higher point and one cat would redirect all the water to the floor as it poured out with her paw. I bought this one because the water gently bubbles at the top and spills down...no opportunity for mess! It is somewhat of a pain to clean but it is worth it and easier compared to my last fountain. When I took it apart to clean it there was some mold type deposit under the egg piece where the motor is enclosed at. You will know it needs cleaning because bubbles develop. I had to disassemble the entire unit to clean it but it is not hard. There is a lot of maintenance with any electronic water fountain.It is also very quiet but you will hear it when it needs to be filled. Can accommodate 2 cats at the same time nicely. Also serves as a paw washer.
5	1392681600	This is cat fountain #3.  Paid over $60 for the other 2 and they were poorly made plastic and broke within a few months.  I like the stainless steel version.  MUCH easier to clean and my cats love it and use it.
2	1392681600	The cats enjoyed drinking from it and it was nice to look at but the pump stopped very shortly after we bought it. We were able to start it again but after a few months of fixing it every week, it died for good and we gave up.
2	1392595200	On the plus side, it was easy to set up, and our three cats absolutely loved drinking from it.  On the negative side, within 8 months, it rusted badly, so I doubt that it was really made of stainless steel, or it should not have rusted.  We are currently looking for something similar made from materials that won't rust.
5	1392595200	Easy to keep clean, and healthier for my pets. The plastic fountain I had previously was difficult to clean, and a &#34;pinkish&#34; residue started to accumulate in some of the hard-to-reach places on the plastic model. I am very satisfied with this stainless steel model!
5	1392595200	I really, really like this unit!  I had a plastic one before that was difficult to clean and the water got gummy within 2-3 days with two cats drinking out of it.  I had refrained from getting a stainless steel one because of the costs. This unit is quiet, I think very attractive and really easy to clean. What's really nice is the ability to take apart and clean the motor itself.  It's surprising how saliva collects everywhere.  Both my cats use the bubbling spout as well as the collection pool.  It's not too big but holds plenty of water and fits easily anywhere.  The website has a 'cleaning video' that is quite handy. With two cats, I can go a week between cleanings adding water as needed.  I think the costs is very reasonable and would definitely recommend this product to anyone with cats!
5	1392508800	I bought this after looking at several designs and so far this one has been dandy.My cats love the fresh water, one prefers drinking from the open bowl, the other likes the water running down the ramp. It's quiet sitting on a towel. Cleaning is easy and I borrowed another commenter's idea of reusing the filter by repacking it with filter floss and bulk charcoal. That solution works fine. So far everybody is very happy.
2	1392422400	I had to replace the motor twice now (have had &#60; 2 years).  The motor itself is not available in most pet stores, and on line cost abot $28.00 after shipping and handling.  If the water level goes down too far (easy to do), the motor will burn out right away.That's too bad because the design of the fountain is nice and it's easy to clean. Unfortunately I cannot recommend it.
5	1392422400	My cats would always want to drink from the fish tank or the sink. I couldn't get them to drink from still water. They loved this bowl, though. One cat prefers the top, and the other prefers the bottom. Glad I bought this :)
5	1392422400	I have cats and was looking for a stainless steal fountain with a decent filter system.  I have had many different models in the past, this one is fabulous.  It does not get clogged as fast as the others do - you clean it out once a week and you are good to go.  Excellent design and the filters are not that expensive either.  If your motor stops, you can easily take it part and wipe around the propeller to clean it and it will work again.
1	1392336000	Well I thought it would at least like 6 months but that's a negative.  The pump gave out just over a month.  Not only that I cleaned it twice and there was algae forming on the plastic parts around the pump and whatnot, I do not recommend......
5	1392336000	You cat will love you! Super quiet and encourages my Rajah to drink more water. Loves the water run off and spout fountain. Went to the big box store and it was doubled the price. Returned it and ordered off amazon. Best quality h2O for your pet
4	1392249600	I love the concept of stainless steel but I didnt get my kitty as I expected to yet so it will be awhile before I can use it..:/
4	1392249600	You never know with cats if they are going to use something like this or reject it completely. My cat loves drinking out of the sink so I decided to give this water bowl a try. He used it right away and continues to use it. It is quiet and easy to clean.
5	1392249600	I was skeptical when I bought this fountain, both because the negative reviews concerned me and given how discriminating cats can be wasn't sure mine would even take to it.  They took to it so well that their urine output is twice what it was! I'm just so grateful to this company and to the designers. One of my cats became really sick and the vet wanted her to drink more water. Post-convalescence he suggested trying a fountain before resorting to daily sub q fluids.  Success!Here's what helped the cats adjust to the fountain:  While waiting for it to arrive I introduced them to sounds and sights of moving water on the floor. For a few days I sat with them for about 20 minutes and poured water back and forth between 2 pots. They freaked out at first but became curious and finally sat watching, sometimes striking the water and bubbles. When the fountain came they were more interested than suspicious. I keep it on the lowest level even though the company suggests one up from that. It took one cat about 3 days to fully drink but the other cat was doing so within one day.  I helped the scaredy cat by putting her toys in the water.  She would run up and take them right back out, then lap at the water almost as if it were an automatic response. Over these last months it's been interesting to watch them get used to the four different areas where they can drink and change their preferences.As far as noise, it truly is whisper-quiet (I have it in my bedroom) as long as the water level is at the lip that is just below the edge of the fountain base.  Otherwise the top rattles on the base. It's not very loud when it does that, sort of sounds like a fish tank or refrigerator. But that bothers me enough that I make sure the level is where it should be.  I tested it; it takes two cats every other day to drink past the lip, about 3 cups of water, but it's best for their health to just change it more often.It's easy to clean too because it doesn't have as many crevices as other fountains and the parts are small enough to fit in a sink or dishwasher.  Yay for this fountain!  It's hilarious that looks like a bed pan though.  :-)
4	1392249600	It's a nice fountain and quiet. The first one was bought for me as a present and the motor burned out after about 9 months or so. I bought another one, and now it's even better because I can switch between the two steel fountains when one of them needs cleaning. I think the first one was faulty, because the motor on the newer one has been going strong for over a year.
5	1392249600	My cats started trying to drink from this while I was still trying to put it together.  It runs so quietly (on the lowest setting), I check on it to make sure it is running.  With my last pet fountain, the motor was before the filter and could not be disassembled.  This caused it to eventually burn out.  The motor in the Pioneer fountain is after the filter and can be fully disassembled for cleaning.
2	1392163200	quite working after a week, pump kept sticking, great quality item for aluminum, too bad moving parts that make it work were trash.
3	1392076800	It's a nice, very quiet, little watering bowl.  I thought my cats would enjoy it more.  Perhaps yours will.  Now, though, I see that a regular plain bowl of water was just fine and that I didn't really need this..
1	1391990400	We have 2 cats and this drinking fountain was great for a short time.... The motor died after only having it for 3 months!! We cleaned it often and we are really surprised that the motor died so quickly. I'm not even sure where to go about getting a new motor for it. We did not order online but got it at PetSmart... If you decide to buy one, just be warned and I hope you find this review helpful :)
3	1391990400	This is a really nice looking water fountain and it has encouraged our cats to drink more water. You have to keep the water at a high level to stop the motor from making noise though. Kind of high maintenance in that way but at least they are always having enough fresh water.
5	1391904000	It is easy to clean and my cats like the stainless better, I am wAiting to replace all of my watering fountains to stainless
3	1391904000	Apparently the roommates cat will only drink &#34;aerated&#34; water. In an effort to keep the cat off the counter every time the sink was turned on this was purchased. The fussy cat drinks from it. Beware, when the water level gets low the motor keeps running even though it's dry. Haven't had a chance to check this out personally yet so it could be operator error.
4	1391904000	The cat seems to like this fountain and it has stopped her from drinking from the sink so much. I haven't had any issues with the noise - it's just a faint white noise so I sleep through it. My only complaint would be the size because it's quite big for one cat. It would be nice if they made miniature ones for single cat households.
5	1391817600	I was worried that my pets weren't drinking enough water so I bought this fountain.  It is awesome and my dog and cat both love it.  Its really easy to clean.  I have had the pump stop a couple times since I bought it 8 months ago, but I went online and found out how to clean it...which is very simple.  This is the best thing I have every gotten my pets.
5	1391731200	One of my dogs doesn't use it, but the other dog does.I bought it for my cats, and I picked this one because of its light/slow fountain qualities. One cat drinks directly from where the water comes out; the other two drink from the bay at the bottom. They love it, and I love it. Not to mention it looks nice. The only downside is that sometimes you can hear the motor, though not often.
2	1391731200	This looked SO cool to me. Two of our cats aren't thrilled about getting their whiskers wet with our Drinkwell Fountain. I thought they would love this. No. They weren't even curious enough to go check it out. Fortunately, I kept the old workhorse. This fountain was donated to Goodwill. Hope the next owner has better luck. Never know with these felines.
5	1391731200	I really like the new water fountain.  My kitties like it too.  Very quiet.  Wasn't crazy about the assembly but it didn't take long to put together.  Refill cartridges are reasonably priced.
4	1391731200	I like Pioneer's stainless steel fountains because the steel is so much easier to clean and more durable than the many plastic pet fountains out there, however the filter assembly is still an issue.  The filter assembly needs to be taken apart and cleaned regularly which wouldn't be a big deal except that it is made of plastic and starts breaking down rather quickly.  There are plastic suction cups that hold it in place and these start to wear out in less than a year.  Additionally, the replacement filters are so expensive that I have stopped buying them and have opted to run the pump without them and just clean the whole thing out every 2 to 3 days.  For the price of their fountains, I would like to see the whole pump/filter assembly more durable!
5	1391644800	It took a couple of hours for my cat to warm up to it, but now she drinks from it all of the time.  When the water gets low the top will vibrate a little, but its a great way to know it needs refilled.
5	1391644800	Perfect. My cats really use it. Food looking and the fountain works very well. There is calcification on the rim and I might have to use CLR to get rid if it n
3	1391644800	My three cats loved this fountain, worked great, easy to clean. And then it died after 7 months of ownership despite daily cleaning. It was a great fountain while it worked. I wish there was some sort of warranty for it, I think the motor just died.
5	1391558400	Easy to use, very easy to clean, and easy to replace just the pump, if you should ever have to.
2	1391558400	Thought this would be handy to have fresh water available.  The unit's motor is very noisy and my cat will not go near it.
5	1391472000	CATS LOVE IT...and I love it. Running water brings magic to any situation...not sure how but it does...thinking of throwing in a little food coloring. Maybe red.Downfall: you DO need to refill bowl...I guess water has to come from somewhere?
5	1391385600	I ordered this for my cats because every time we took a shower or were at a bathroom sink they wanted water from the faucet. They no longer are bothering us for fresh flowing water. They love it and so do we.
5	1391299200	I have had my Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel fountain for about a month now, and I would recommend it to other cat owners. Here are some of the highlights of my experience with it thus far:Assembly:  The fountain was easy to assemble. The instructions included have both text and pictures, with good explanations of how to care for the fountain, filter, and pump. It took me a little bit of a fuss to see how everything fit together but I had it put together in 10 minutes.Aesthetics:  The stainless steel looks nice in my kitchen. It is not obtrusive and you really don't notice it once you get used to it. My husband, however, noted that it looks a bit like a bed pan which is... a little true. I still think it looks fine.Noise Level:  Yes, this fountain does make noise. I can hear it in a quiet room, but it fades away under the sounds of cooking or conversation. If you are very picky about ambient noise you may want to make sure you have a place for it that is both out of the way and easily accessible to your cats. Until I got used to the noise I did assume it was a leaking faucet! The fountain does increase in noise if the water dips below a certain level, but I consider that a feature as it serves as a sort of reminder to add some fresh water.Cat Approval:  After all, the most important part of the fountain is getting your cats to drink from it, right? I have two cats, one with a bold personality and one that is a 'fraidy cat. My bold cat was &#34;investigating&#34; the fountain within about 90 minutes by pawing at the fountain itself as well as the water (to his horror, his paw kept getting wet!). After a few hours he realized he could drink from it and prefers the burble that the fountain pushes up.My shy cat, however, was not so easily won over. It took him several days of watching his brother before he would approach the fountain, and about a week overall before he started drinking from it. He prefers to drink from the bowl portion where the water is much more still.Make sure you have another source of water available when introducing your cats to a new fountain so they do not get dehydrated!Now, both cats drink from the fountain regularly. I had to put a bit of no-skid cabinet liner under the fountain as they realized they could nudge the fountain around and I knew that would lead to a water mess! As far as I can tell it has increased their water intake, which makes me very happy. One of my cats has already suffered a minor UTI, and they are both male which increases their risk for very dangerous urinary blocks/crystals. They seem to enjoy drinking and occasionally dipping a paw in the fountain,and I'm happy with its performance thus far.Recommended!
4	1391212800	It is quiet, holds a good amount of water, has a carbon filter, and is stainless steel. BUT it has a big design flaw - the cover doesnt leave a large enough opening. I noticed when I first set it up the cats were still drinking out of the dog bowl, after I took the cover off it they were happy to drink from it (in fact, Tarzan sat there and drank for 5 min straight). So I think the problem is that the hole in the top cover makes their whiskers hit the side of the cover when trying to drink, and cats DO NOT like that. It works fine without the cover anyway, and now my dog can drink out of it too.
2	1391126400	my cat loved this but the pump stopped working after only 8 months of use. expensive water bowl to not last a year. will look for something different.
5	1391040000	First off, after reading previous reviews about cats not liking the shiny metal, I bought an inexpensive metal cat bowl from Wal-Mart, so I could make sure that my cat, Luna, did not dislike the material. She ate her food from the metal bowl like her other ceramic bowls, so I preceded to ordered this fountain from Amazon.Luna does not have any health problems, but she absolutely refuses to drink any water. I used to catch her drinking out of her bowl maybe once a week. However, we recently added another kitten to our family who won't stay away from Luna's water bowl. Luna does not like dirty water or sharing her water in general. I did not see her drink any water for weeks. I cleaned her bowl several times a day, and I even left out glasses of water on the counters, which she used to occasionally enjoy. Luckily, I only feed her wet food, so she did get some water but not enough.This fountain arrived 4 weeks ago. My new kitten of course loved it and drank out of it the first day. Luna would not even go near it. Fast forward 2 1/2 weeks later. I saw Luna approach the fountain and sniff the water. However, she still did not drink the water. After a few days, I came home from work and caught Luna drinking from the fountain. Yay!!! She now drinks from the fountain several times a day (at least 5 times)! She does not mind sharing with her little sister.I really have no negative things to say about the fountain. It is esthetically pleasing, makes minimal noise, is easy to clean, and is made from good quality steel. I don't know why other reviewers have complained about it splashing. Maybe they have sloppy drinkers lol. I don't even put a mat under the fountain. I am extremely clean, so something like that would bother me. Also, as far as water stains, I didn't wash my fountain for 2 weeks, and it looks fine. If you just wash it well every 2 weeks, there should not be a problem. Furthermore, if it is making excessive noise, the pieces aren't placed together correctly. Mine was obviously misaligned when this occurred. Lastly, the steel it not cheap or flimsy. I don't know why some reviewers want heavier or thicker metal. It would be ridiculously heavy to carry the fountain with water in it. The stainless steel is the thickness you would expect a human metal bowl to be. It's not the same thickness as a heavy pan, if that's what you are expecting.P.S. I didn't get a plastic one because plastic harbors bacteria, especially if there are microscopic scratches on its surface. I didn't get a ceramic one because my kitties and I are a bit clumsy, and I don't want to break it.
5	1391040000	I have owned this water fountain for almost three years. I have never had a problem with anything. I do take everything apart every week for a good cleaning,  and change the filter monthly. My cats drink so much more water now!
1	1391040000	Bought two of these because I like the stainless steel and the quiet motor. Both broke within a month. Don't buy.
1	1390953600	The motor gave out after only two days' use but the bottom makes an excellent (if super-over-priced) pet water bowl!
4	1390953600	This is a greta fountain, the stainless steel is easy to clean and helps keep the water fresh.  I like that the water bubbles up and does not have a high ramp to slide down thus minimizing splashes.  Only wish there was some sort of clip or way the top lid was secured as my kitty on occasion lifts it off. But I am very happy with this product.
5	1390953600	I already had one for outdoors and wanted another one for inside the house.  It doesn't get slimey the way a ceramic or plastic one does.  It is light weight and easy to clean. I would highly recommend it!
5	1390867200	The pet fountain is easy to clean and maintain.  It stays much cleaner that the water bowls did.  It does get noisy when it needs to be cleaned but that is actually a good thing - it tells me when it's time for cleaning.  It never seems that dirty but it's much quieter after I've cleaned it.  The cats were cautious of it the first day when I turned it on, so I unplugged it for a few days so they'd get used to it.  Once I plugged it in, I noticed immediately that they are drinking quite a bit from it.There is a video on Youtube on how to take the pump apart.  I take it apart, put soap in the bowl and wash everything in the bowl.  I use a magic eraser on the lime deposits from the water.  It works fairly well.  I've had this for 3 months now and I clean the pump once a week.  I've only changed the filter twice.  I bought the cleaning sponge wand thingy but haven't used it. Not sure why you need it.
5	1390867200	This is such a great design - I have three cats and two of them are able to drink out of it at one time (because of course when one is interested, the others are too).  It is pretty quiet and the sound of water is relaxing.  I bought a special little mat to put underneath it, but it doesn't even need it, as the water doesn't splash on the floor.  It is super easy to clean and I love the stainless steel.  I highly recommend if you have cats that are obsessed with water, like one of mine.  It provides entertainment and also a fresh supply of water, which in my experience, it seems they like to drink more of because it is now &#34;fun!&#34;
2	1390780800	To begin with, this fountain does not act very much like a fountain.  I have had others that work much better.  Also this one is harder to keep clean and the filters have to be replaced way too often.  When I run out of filters this fountain is headed for the trash.
1	1390780800	this was not a good product. you have to fill it all the time and doesn't clean that well can't get rid of the hard water stains
4	1390694400	I really like this item for my cat however so far within the last 2 years we have gone through 2 pumps for it. I would have thought it would last longer than that.
5	1390608000	It is taking my cats a few weeks to get used to it, but I am very happy with the fountain so far. It is quiet and easy to put together. We will see how it goes at the time of filter change but so far no complaints!
5	1390608000	Good construction and design.  This filters water before it enters the pump, which my two previous similar products from other manufactures did not. I read a review stating this product is loung, but I have not had that problem. It is quieter if it is kept full, but it is quiet to begin with.  Well built, looks good, and my cat drinks from it.
5	1390521600	We got a Pioneer raindrop fountain for our cats for Christmas. It arrived fast, was easy to set up, but sat there circulating water for several days before either cat would use it. Today is 1 month later, and we are getting a second one b/c now neither cat will drink water from a plain old bowl. Yesterday one of them started drinking from the bubbler (upper deck) where the water comes out. Both began using the lower pool, but it took a while before they accepted it. Also very easy to pull apart down to the motor parts, reassemble, and refill... Maybe 5 minutes? This is the cat's meow of water dishes.
5	1390348800	Excellent product the stainless steel  doesn't get slimey like the plastic fountain I had. Every three days I was washing the plastic fountain my cats wouldn't drink from it when it was slimey. Now they seem to drink more water since it stays fresh. I would recommend this product and have even told my friends about it.
3	1390348800	My cat does love this fountain and immediately started playing in it when we set it up.  The pump burned out after a few weeks, hence the 3 star rating.  I was able to exchanged the broken one for a brand new one though and it's made it almost one month now.  We'll see how it holds up.
5	1390262400	This fountain allows my kitty to drink from the bowl or attack the water gently bubbling up top. Very easy to clean and attractive. I find this an excellent value and the filter replacements are well-priced too.
4	1390262400	The design is a little awkward because even full it sometimes makes noise and I have to gently push the &#34;spout&#34; back toward the base to make better contact. Not a big deal. It would also be nice if you could empty it without having to reposition the filter holder, which immediately loses its suction when the fountain is moved. Other than that, it's a great thing. The bathroom is the only place where we had both  room and an accessible outlet, which is far removed from the pantry where her food is, and I think she does like it better that way.
4	1390262400	easy to set up and easy to clean.glad that I bought it.I would do business again.Thanks for the great Christmas gift
4	1390089600	Most importantly, my cats loved this fountain almost immediately. I think it took them only an hour to start drinking from it. In the past, we had a much larger fountain with a middle spout that could provide from one to four streams of water. For some reason, they just never used it much. This fountain however seems to be just the right size, with the right amount of movement to make it far less intimidating. They've been drinking water every couple of hours. So, having said that, I would certainly suggest trying the fountain, and I'm very happy I made the purchase. Now, as to why I did not give it 5 stars:I think it's the perfect size for two cats, but I would not suggest it for more than 2 cats, or for really large cats. It strikes me as a small bowl, and would become dirty quite easily if multiple cats used it, or a group of large cats were rather prone to messy drinking habits. Also, it requires monthly filter changes, which I find a bit excessive. I can only imagine how much it will cost to maintain it over a two year period. In addition, I have found the motor noise to be a bit lounder than even the large fountain I had previously. We've already started to adjust to the sound, but I was surprised at the volume of such a small motor. Finally, the instructions for setting up the fountain are quite literally some of the worst I have ever read. I was stunned at how vague, and confusing the &#34;manual&#34; was. Although one can definitely figure it out, it's odd that something so simple couldn't be well-worded and concise.
2	1389830400	Our cat love fresh water so we decided to by this product.  The water was clear for only one day and the next day you can see the salvia floating in the water.  By the 3rd day the motor shut down because there was not enough water in the bowl to circulate.  The motor can be loud during processing.
5	1389830400	In order to encourage my cat to drink more water, I've tried a number of fountains. They've always been too noisy and scared him off. This one is not only sleek looking, and easy to wash, it is quiet. He wasn't sure if it was for him at first, and ran away when we caught him drinking out of it, but now he is drinking a lot more water and looks healthier because of it.As many people had mentioned, my only complaint is the grommit. Luckily I read about them before I presented the fountain to my cat (I didn't want him to be turned-off from the start). That smell was VERY difficult to get out. We tried baking soda, vinegar, and running it through the dishwasher. The final step was using ozonated water, which removed most of the smell, but a faint amount remained. We then ran tap water through the fountain for about 30 minutes, changed the water and then gave it to the cat. With so many complaints about the grommit, you'd think the company would fix it. What kind of pet company doesn't know that a smell like that (that was string enough to be offensive to me) will really deter an animal!
5	1389830400	I have 5 cats and all love the new fountain - I will probably buy another one soon, they are enjoying it so much. Very easy to put together.
5	1389744000	All of my cats enjoy this bowl. Stainless steel keeps the bowl from any gross buildup and the replacement filters are inexpensive.
1	1389744000	Excellent design, it worked for a few days, but when I unplugged it at night, it would not start back the next day...I am returning the product.
5	1389657600	We've been using the Raindrop Design Stainless Steel Fountain for almost a year now. We previously had the drinkwell, and found this fountain to be a vast improvement. It is much easier to take apart and clean, and to fit the bowl in the dishwasher if desired. The pump box is ingenious, allowing easy access to the pump and filter. The design of the top allows cats who like running water to drink from one spot, and cats who do not to drink from the bowl. We run it 24x7, and change the filter and clean the parts generally every 2 weeks. It can seem a bit noisy, however, if you top off the water level, it quiets considerably. Other than noise, we haven't had any issues with the pump, until... Akita dropped his sparkle ball in the fountain. It has happened before, but this time, I didn't catch it until the little foam ball blocked the water flow to the pump. So today I've ordered a replacement pump. Bottom line, this fountain is a good value, well-designed, easy to clean, acceptable to most of my cats (but not all), reasonably quiet, and quite durable with the exception of stealth attacks via sparkle ball.
4	1389657600	Fountain works very well. Two drinking options (from fountain or from bowl) is a nice feature.  Only downside so far is that once water level drops a little, usually after a day or so, fountain gets a little noisy. Otherwise, relatively silent.
5	1389571200	i recommend the stainless steel fountain over the ceramic one.  the water looks clear, and it's easier to clean.  cats love it.
5	1389571200	The poineer pet stainless steel fountain was easy to set up. I read many complaints about the fountain pump being loud but we did not have that problem. The only noise that we can hear is the water circulatiing, kinda like a fish tank, and my dog had no problem drinking once she realized that it was her new water bowl. Will update if any problems occur.
5	1389571200	I just received it, cleaned it etc, plugged it in, and both cats loved it immediately and took good long drinks...
5	1389484800	Our kitties love this watering hole! For the first couple of days they were pretty wary of it because it makes a small sound and the water moves around a bit. After they were used to it, it's been great. It supplies fresh water so my cats don't drink from the toilet (yuck) anymore because I've forgotten to refresh the bowl. When the water has been there for more than two days they won't drink it anymore. Now, as long as it's full of course, the water can be in there for a long time without having to worry about it. Great for me and for them!
1	1389312000	The product is attractive and the stainless steel is clearly easier to clean than the usual plastic brands.  However, the noise from the product is annoying, so much that I placed it on a timer to go off when I'm in the same room watching television in the evening.  My previous &#34;CatMate&#34; plastic fountain did not make any noise until the water level was down to about 1/2 inch.  This pump is even louder when the water level drops slightly below the highest fillable level.  Surely the producers could have spent an extra dollar or so for a better pump.  This one is clearly Chinese junk.  Never again!
5	1389312000	Our two cats LOVE this thing.  I love it because it looks great and is very easy to clean up.
4	1389139200	Easy to put together and only took a couple of minutes. I purchased it to encourage my cat with chronic kidney disease to drink, and although he does drink from it, my other cat enjoys it even more. She spends quite a bit of time just staring at it, mesmerized. Not too loud and looks nice.
4	1389139200	I've had other fountains, and I prefer this over those because the stainless steel and basic design is easier to clean and keep clean, and overall my 2 cats seem fine with it. The previous plastic/synthetic material fountains (other brands) required frequent cleaning, seemed to get watermarks more easily, and generally required more contortions to clean (small, hard to clean areas). I still find that I wash the main parts of this fountain at least every 4 days (or put it in the dishwasher) because it seems to gather dust and oils (it's in our kitchen).  I religiously clean the motor at least every 2 weeks.  The wall plug on this one quit working after about 6 months and had to be replaced (via online web site, -- it was not motor related, strictly the plug). The other fountains provided more direct drinking access to the water (bigger well surface area) and a higher fountain which the cats seems to prefer.  On this one, my cats don't use the fountain part.  If the water level drops more than 1 inch, they have to stick their heads down into it, and they think twice about it, but they still use it.  I make sure the water level doesn't drop that low.  This issue could be a concern if you had to depend on not having to add water for 2-3 days  Generally, I would recommend this one and have purchased it for others.
5	1389052800	Both my cat and dog are happy with this fountain. Our water tastes kind of crappy and I was working to get the dog to drink more as we were house training. This did the trick. Now that we also added a kitty to the household, he enjoys the fountain part as well. This is easy to clean. Would highly recommend. We have been using this for about 5 months now.
4	1389052800	I love the clean and sophisticated design of this bowl. I first saw it in Petco and ordered it through Amazon for much less. It took my cats a couple of days to try it out, but they are big fans. My only complaint is that after a day or so when the water level drops a bit, the noise level goes up. I combat this by keeping a pitcher ready in the frig for a quick top-off, but filling it up to the rim every time should not be a requirement to keep the noise level in the background.
4	1388966400	looks prettier than other water filters. does the job fine. kitties were initially scared of it, but now they are fine with it. Not sure if it encouraged them to drink more though, as they dont seem to be changing their drinking habits, but it's been a few weeks. we will see.
3	1388966400	My 2 cats & dog love love love this fountain.  However, I am not so impressed.  It is a very attractive design, pretty easy to clean BUT it does tend to make annoying noises if the water runs a little low and/or it needs cleaning.  And now after owning it for about a year, it is BROKEN.  Was working just fine, cleaned it then started it up again but it kept making an annoying noise.  So I unplugged it rinsed it out again and now it won't turn on at all.  And I just bought a ton of filters for it too!  God I wish I could buy something that would last & be worth my hard earned money!!
2	1388880000	I bought this a year ago after visiting my daughter in New York.  I'm not sure if because we live in Hawaii, the salt air is affecting it, but it rusts. I have to scrub the rust off and I don't like the fact that it's rusting so I'm going back to the plastic one, I'd rather deal with a little mold than rust.
5	1388880000	I like the fact that this water bowl is made of stainless steel rather than my previous one which was plasticeasier to clean and best of all, my cats love it.
5	1388793600	Great fountain easy to clean looks nice.great product. Would recommend to people who have animals they love it fresh water
2	1388793600	After using PetMate's product for 2 years, the pump broke so tried this one.  Yecch.  Much noiser than the PetMate but swell if you want to listen to a motor grinding all day while admiring its beautiful design :)The kitties didn't like the design either, with no waterfall.  So I returned this &#34;dog&#34; and am going to try the &#34;Cat Mate&#34; which is supposed to be the quietest per reviews.
4	1388793600	I have had this since 2/2013 and my cat and dog love it. I change the filters every 1-2 months and clean it which is very simple. I have hard water and it did get crusty white on it that dish soap and scrubbing didn't get out, I looked online and others had soaked it in vinegar so I did this and let it soak for 1-2 hours then washed with dish soap and it looks brand new and used no chemicals at all! If mine ever breaks I will repurchase for sure!
5	1388793600	I had a plastic fountain for a while until it broke, so I decided to upgrade. I went with something metal to avoid the bacteria build-up that is so common with plastics. There are zero grooves in this thing, so the whole unit is beyond easy to clean.You can get ceramic if you want something sturdier, but chipping ceramic leads to bacteria build-up, which is why I went away from plastic in the first place.My cats use this fountain all the time. It is extremely quiet, to the point where I don't hear it at all if I'm more than 10 feet away. I replace water two or three times a week, and clean it once a week. The filters are very cheap on amazon compared to other brands (3 for $8) and it is simple to change them.Overall, I highly recommend this fountain to anybody who wants to give their cats access to more water. It's perfect for any household, and actually looks nice if you are concerned about aesthetics.
4	1388793600	Works great with no problems except it is a little load. Has not scare the cat so okay with me.
5	1388707200	I previously had the Drinkwell Platinum Pet Fountain but that broke down in less than 3 months. I purchased this because I do believe that my cats should always get access to fresh water just like we do. First of, this is MUCH easier to clean and to put together than Drinkwell. Next, my cats really do seem to like it as they started drinking out of it from day one. It is very quiet and easy to add water to.
5	1388707200	We have 4 cats and at first they were wary of the slight noise the fountain made. But once they got used to it, they can't seem to get enough of the fresh flowing water.  Extremely pleased with this item.
4	1388707200	So far my cats are more fascinated by this than anything else, although they do drink from it.This is the first fountain I've used, and I had difficulty in getting it to work. To me, the instruction manual wasn't anywhere close to being useful.But this company's customer service provided quick and excellent instructions (both via email and also linking to a Youtube video) when I contacted them with the problem(s) I was having. But that said,once my common sense kicked in and I saw how to work this, it is very simple and worthwhile and works just fine. It seems very quiet, but I don't know how the sound compares to other fountains.
5	1388620800	My cat loves this item and is drinking more water now. Looks great too and fairly quite in the corner of the room.
4	1388620800	My cat never drinks water unless it's out of the tub. I've tried a few other fountains and this was the first one he's gone up to and drank from immediately! I'm shocked. It's only the first night and I've seen him at the fountain twice... Looking promising!
5	1388620800	I thought this was a great gift to give my cats for Christmas (along with theHagen Catit Treat Ball, Bluewhich is a Godsend) since, aside from the benefits of having fresh running water, my cats like to sneak into my bathroom and play with the toilet water. This fountain is super simple to put together and it works just as expected. I did make sure to follow the directions and run water over the filter for about 30 seconds before installing it into the fountain and running it. I noticed that some reviewers mentioned the water having a metallic smell to it to so please make sure to follow this critical step before allowing your kitties to drink from it. It took a day for my cats to warm up to the fountain but by the second day, their curiosity led them right to trying it out. They still try to sneak into the bathroom to play with toilet water but not as often. Keeps water clean and fresh and looks great in my kitchen. I highly recommend!
5	1388534400	Sense this is made of stainless steel it's much easier to clean and is much lower maintenance due to less parts.  I've had a couple of the other pet fountains that were made of plastic and they had multiple parts that needed to be cleaned regularly otherwise the hard residue would build up.  I would highly recommend this to anyone for their pets.
5	1388534400	I have 3 Yorkie's and 1 Siamese mix and on watering hole and they all love it and it keeps the water nice and clean and clear now that is what I call a very good deal
5	1388361600	Much nicer and prettier than my old plastic cat water bowl, this looks lovely in my kitchen.  I wish the fountain had a bit more force to it, my cat likes to drink from the faucet so he is not happy that the water drizzles out instead of having force behind it.  But it is beautiful and noise level is on par with any other water bowl I have owned.
3	1388361600	My cats liked it however it was loud and it got dirty quick. It was a nice shape and the water flowed nice, but overall I would suggest going with a different brand.
5	1388361600	The cat is very happy with her new water fountain.  Although we expected her to drink from the water slide as with her previous water fountain and the fact that she wont drink from a regular bowl, she actually drinks from the bowl.  We did actually find that it's necessary to clean as per instructions & video, as also recommended by previous reviews, in order for it to work properly.  We're very pleased with the design and find we prefer the stainless steel as opposed to the previous fountain's plastic.
5	1388361600	Our cats love this water dish. They drink more and it keeps the water much fresher with the filter. It is attractive to look at too!
4	1388361600	I liked this when I saw it at a fancy-schmancy pet store for $60+.  My wife's rug-pissing cats don't deserve $60 gifts, so I got it much cheaper on Amazon.  It is very quite and it keeps our 1 cat from &#34;bathing&#34; in his dish.
4	1388361600	I love the design of this pet fountain.  Unfortunately our cats wouldn't drink out of it so we had to give it to my parents, but there dog loves it.
2	1388275200	This worked pretty good until I cleaned it the first time, and bumped the AC adapter against the kitchen counter.  Now the adapter is dead.
5	1388275200	I bought mine about two years ago, not from Amazon but another store.  Amazon sells this cheaper than where I bought mine.  Kind of regret not having purchased this from Amazon.  Now mine works great! My cats drinks from it.  I clean it once every 2-4 weeks.  AND I USE NO FILTER.  You really don't need the filter.  With filter or not, gunk or hair still get into the bowl.  Since I have a lot of indoor cats, I would add a couple glass of fresh water to the bowl every night to last a whole day.  Then on the weekends, I unplug the bowl, dump the water into sink, wash it with dish detergent, rinse the water pump plastic housing and the pump, rinse it clean.  Then I refill it with clean water and plug back on to use for another 2-4 weeks.  The calcium does get build up on the metal cover.  So I would use a little calcium cleaner to wipe away the built-up.  Just recently, the pump finally died on me.  So I just ordered a new pump here on Amazon. Overall, I'm very happy with this bowl. I have used a lot of water fountains out there for my cats.  This one by far is my favorite kind.  I may order a couple more of this drinking fountain.  Also, I bought this one, not the bigger max size.  I really don't think a bigger size makes a difference to me when my cats are no bigger than 10 pounds each.  This one size is just perfect for my kitties. :)
4	1388275200	I have two cats, one who loved to lie in my bathroom sink and wait for me to turn the water on. My other is a rescue who was dumped and, probably used to drinking whatever water she could find. I purchased this fountain because of my cat who likes to drink from the faucet.  He loves it. My other cat drinks from the resevoir and not the running water, so it suits both cats. I purchased the stainless rathercthan the ceramic to avoid breakage and wish I had gone with the ceramic. The stainless steel one will require you to take an SOS pad and scrub the top piece to hold down on hardwater buildup - which looks ugly. You should also take apart and thoroughly clean once a week.  Other than that, I recommend.
5	1388275200	Originally, I bought this for my mom's cat who insists on drinking the dripping water from the bottom of our bathtub after we get done showering. At first I really didn't know how to take the little motor apart to clean the fur and hairs that get caught up in there and cause things to slow up and get noisy, but once I learned how easy it was, I keep the motor running clean and it has worked really well for us. I buy the 3-pack of replacement filters to have on hand and every 4 days or so I give it a good wash and clean out with soap and water. It is easy to clean and only takes like 5 minutes of time. My mom's cat is back at her home now and my daughter's 3 cats are here with us and they love it! For an older person who can't be bothered to clean the motor and filter housing up, this may not be a good fit.
4	1388188800	Got this as a gift and am quite impressed with it so far.  After a bit of a struggle getting the motor to sit properly in the reservoir, I finally turned it on and was really pleased by how quiet it is.  If the water gets low, it hums audibly.  Otherwise, I don't hear it unless the top piece is sitting off-kilter on the bottom piece.  If this happens, a simple tap on the top settles it back into alignment.  Took my cats a day or two to drink from it but they seem to like it now.  I like that they can choose between the open bowl or the fountain part.  Really a good little machine!
5	1388188800	I looked hard for the right fountain for my cat and I want what I believe is the best for her.  To introduce her to it, I had a standing dish of water next to the fountain in case she did not like it but she almost immediately went for the fountain. It was quite comical actually watching her try to figure out what part to drink from.  She drinks far more water now than she ever did with standing water dishes even though I changed the water daily.  The stainless steel is wonderful to work with and easy to clean.  The fountain needs a small refilling every other day or two. The manufacturer recommends changing the filter once every two to four weeks.  I have found that to be accurate.  Even though the water I use is pure, filtered and non-fluoridated, I replace the filter approximately every 21 days but in the interim have found that the water and all the parts tend to accumulate with mucous and becomes slimy if not washed out every 7 to 10 days (even with adding fresh pure water periodically).  I make sure to wipe down the pump and filter which also gets slimy by rinsing it under cool water to remove the mucous.Believe it or not, it never fails that each time I clean it out, she lets me know she is happy. She purrs up a storm, rubs against my legs as if to say, THANKS MOM then checks out the clean fountain dish.  This is a wonderful fountain.That said, my only complaint lies with the difficulty of taking apart the pump. Ideally, it is supposed to slide and open but that is in an ideal situation.  It does not always open that easily.  And as one who has rheumatoid arthritis it can be rather challenging at times.Other than that, I am very happy with it and so is my cat, Nutmeg.
5	1388188800	Henry took to his new fountain almost immediately.  I love it because it's much easier to keep clean than the Drinkwell and simpler to assemble.
5	1388102400	Filter works alright, but it keeps the water circulating and is great for outside in Texas. No Mosquitos in the bowl, and it doesn't freeze in the winter! Great bowl, very large capacity as well!
2	1388102400	I purchased this product in May of 2012 and have had no problems until about 2 months ago.  A black gunk was building up between cleanings and the water would become very thick and slimy.  I clean the fountain every 5 to 7 days and only one cat drinks from it and I use filtered water.  I replaced the filter every time I cleaned the fountain.  I have been receiving the filters on automatic shipment from Amazon because I replace the filter every time.  I have noticed that the filters I have been receiving lately have black dust in the plastic bag and in the box the filters come in.  It wasn't always this way.  I rinse the filters extremely well before placing them in the fountain and filling it with water.  I found a box of the older filters that had fallen behind some things in the cabinet and I didn't know they were there.  Those filters did not have black dust anywhere to be seen and when I used them the water did not become slimy and there was no black gunk.  I am guessing that they are cheaping out the manufacturing of these filters and for this reason, today I purchased a Drinkwell Pagoda fountain to try.
5	1387929600	This is easily to keep clean than the Drinkwell.  I like it since it is stainless steal.  No plastic dishes should be used for any animal as they will contain bacteria in the scratches.  I put it up on a stool.  One cat drinks from the bubbler and the other drinks from the stream!
5	1387929600	I have a ceramic one of these but there are some unfinished areas on it that are in the water constantly. As it was made in China, who knows what it is leaching into the water. So I got one of these. It holds less water but because the groove that the water goes through is deeper, I can turn it up without it leaking like the ceramic one.
5	1387843200	My cat refused to drink out of the bowl I had previously. She would hunt for water in the shower or from the faucet. Now she drinks from this bowl. Great to see her happy.
4	1387756800	We have two cats and one of them used this after about 10 minutes, took our suspicious guy about two days. They both drink much more water out of this than they did out of a bowl. Runs pretty quite. We tried a plastic water fall fountain before this and it was so loud they would not use it.
5	1387670400	I am Audrey the cat. I love fountain. Two hours a day I just stare at fountain. I love drinking the water and dipping my paw in the pool. horray fountain!
1	1387497600	Unfortunately it picked up hard water stains very fast and even CLR couldn't restore it as the stain had already marred the surface permanently.
1	1387497600	Pretty, mostly quiet, cats liked it, but now it's dead. Back to the drawing board, I guess, or a plain bowl refilled twice a day.
4	1387497600	My kitties were always begging to have a faucet turned on so they could drink from it.  Not very convenient, so we invested in this fountain.  I think it's pretty pricey, but keeps the water moving and clear.  We have to add ice cubes every few days to keep it from getting too warm.  Otherwise, it's great.
4	1387497600	Overall a great product.  It was a bit difficult to assemble as the parts are tight fitting...but patience won out.  quiet when filled but gurgles when it's getting low on water...nice feature.  Cats appear to be drinking more water with this product.  Chemical water deposits come off easily.
5	1387497600	I've used cat water fountains for years but don't live in an area where the water is great for this type of thing, so I've had to continually replace them.  When I saw stainless rather than the plastic of the ones I've been able to purchase in the past, I thought I'd take a chance.  It's simple to assemble *as long as you get the fountain part in the right spot.*  The directions weren't as clear as this almost-a-PhD needed.  *chuckle*  Once I figured it out, I was very pleased and the cats don't bug me as much to get at the faucet in the bathroom sink as much.  Not sure how well stainless will do over time (I've only had this a few days) but it's a little more creative in its layout than others I've had in the past and it fits well with the stainless look of my kitchen where it sits.
2	1387497600	I really really wanted to like this fountain - I bought two after trying a bunch of others. But apparently mine are different than everyone else's because they are ridiculously noisy and they get slimy with some kind of disgusting residue after just a day. I constantly have to clean them. Who has time for that? Throwing them out and trying a different brand, yet again.  Maybe I need to train my cats to drink from the toilet. Sigh.
3	1387411200	I have 3 cats and this is my 2nd fountain. I liked the idea of dishwasher safe so I purchased this fountain.  The bubbler is neat but the older cat isn't interested and the bowl part is too small for him.
2	1387324800	This water bowl does everything I wanted it to do.  I circulates the water to keep it from getting stagnant.  And while this may be an unintended side effect, it makes a louder than normal humming noise when it starts to get a little low on water, which actually motivates me to fill it.  It looks nice, is a nice compliment to the room.However, while I may think it's the perfect cat watering bowl, sadly, my two cats do not agree.  One cat was initially scared to death of it and wouldn't go anywhere near it for about a week.  She still refuses to drink from it and we've had it for about a month.  The other cat, typically quite fearless, was pretty wary of this for several days.  He seems to have figured out that technically he can get water from it, but he prefers not too.Disappointing and a waste of money.
4	1387324800	I bought this as a gift and both my friends cats took to it right away. The only thing that is a little nerve wracking is that the cord touches the water when you fll it properly to get the motor quiet as it pumps / filters water. But the cord is enclosed so I put my finger in before letting the cats drink. We are hoping that the light will refract off the shiny chrome surface and this water dish will double as cat entertainment.
2	1387324800	When I assembled it the pump would not work despite following all the trouble shooting suggestions. I have purchased a replacement pump as I live outside of the US. Cats like it though and it makes me feel comfortable that they have a ready supply of fresh water.
4	1387324800	I would give it 5 stars, but it still hasn't stopped my cat from drinking out of the toilet. Still its a nice looking fountain and works great. Do have to clean pretty often because it gets slimy.
2	1387238400	Great concept, but my cats wouldn't go near it even after a couple of weeks, they were too afraid.My bedroom is about 20 feet from the kitchen and I couldn't sleep at night while it was running.
3	1387238400	The motor gave out in less than a year so I just ended up buying a whole new system. I liked the style and design and when I had it, my cats really enjoyed this.
1	1387152000	This was my second fountain, this replaced previous one which lasted a long time. Had this a week and the pump stopped working. I already threw out the original packaging, so unable to return! Since the first one was good didn't think I needed the box. Big mistake!! Buyer beware!
5	1386979200	I love this fountain!  My cats began using it right away, and they love it!  I used to have to leave a faucet dripping for them to drink from, because they didn't like drinking from a bowl.  This is the BEST!!
5	1386979200	Love that this is stainless steel!! And my cats love it. Super easy to put together and easy to clean. It does spit at you if the water level is too low lol. You'll know for sure if more water is needed. Love it!!
4	1386979200	I have two cats that seriously prefer running water. . . they would slap their original bowls of water and spill the water all over the floor several times a day.  After much investigation of various pet fountains, I settled on this stainless steel one, and it's been a good choice.  They adapted to the noise and motion within a few hours, and now let me know right away if I don't change the water every morning.  Keeping it clean and flowing well is a bit of a pain.  I take it completely apart once a week, scrubbing the slime away with a toothbrush and a bottle brush and washing the stainless steel parts in warm soap and water.  I change the filter once every 3 or 4 weeks, as well.  I'm a little disappointed in the durability of the motor unit.  I've had it for 18 months, and one of the three suction cup &#34;feet&#34; on the casing has already broken off.  Plus, the motor casing has a notch where the cord goes to fit snugly between the top and bottom halves of the casing, and the cord is beginning to fray at this place.  This will soon become a safety issue, so I'm going to have to replace the entire motor and casing unit, which is a big disappointment after less than 2years.  My cats like it, so I will keep it, and of the choices available, I would recommend it.  Just know that you do need to do regular maintenance.
5	1386892800	Sleek and VERY quiet! Worth the purchase. I bought for two poms and a cat.  Works like a charm. Not sure where to buy filters.
3	1386892800	after awhile, the chrome starts to get discolored and needs to be constantly cleaned. small propeller in pump needs disassembly and cleaning, our cat seems to drink more from a regular bowl now with fresh water. looks like a decent quality piece, however.
1	1386892800	Here's the thing.  When this fountain works, it works well.  But if you have the top slightly off kilter, the noise will drive you batty.  And the pump is basically crap.  Mine is half dead after only a few months (stopped this morning, although I managed to resurrect it).  I am purchasing a new pump from pioneer pet, with the hopes that the new one lasts longer, but if the new one dies, I'm done.  You would think that for the price they're asking, they could include a more reliable pump.Update: The new pump is louder, if possible, than the old pump.  And the company's customer service is AWFUL.  I have been blamed, lectured, and told it is my fault that their pump is so loud.  Well I am vindicated because the brand new pump is worse than the old.If your house/apartment is noisy already, you might not notice the noise from the fountain.  But if, like me, you enjoy peace and quiet, get a different brand!Additional Update: I was sent a new top to my fountain, in case the old one was warped.  Well, if the old one was, the new one certainly is, as well.  I can hear it buzzing from every room in my apartment, no matter how many times I adjust it.  Do yourself a favor, put out more money, and buy something of better quality.Last Update: They tried.  Sort of.  They sent me a used fountain for the following reason (their words): "We would like to see if this solves your issues with your current fountain, and prove you that Pioneer Pet puts out quality products."  Because someone else's returned fountain will surely fix my problem.  Since if someone else had problems, I wouldn't?  Can't seem to follow the logic on that one.  Anyway, I've given up.  I hate this product.  The pump is ridiculously loud, all three of them that I tried (purchased the first with the original fountain, purchased the second, was given the third by the company in a last ditch effort).Plastic fountains suck, but so does this one.  I think I'm going back to a normal water bowl.  Sorry, cats, I tried!
5	1386892800	Pretty awesome so far. No issues. Wish the pump housing was metal though as the white plastic tends to get this black scum on it after a few days.
4	1386892800	I like the look and sound of this fountain. But my cat refused to drink out of it!  And, the real drawback, no spare water tank
5	1386806400	Works great, cats love it, cleans up easy in dishwasher; but hard water makes it (and everything else with slow-moving water) look ugly fast (not a criticism on the device, just an obvious observation).
4	1386806400	I was tired of the hard water build up on my plastic fountain. Cat was a little slow in taking to it,but seems to like it. Must change water more often and keep it full for her to drink. Don't know why that is, could be just my cat. The stainless is a cheap grade and does not shine like new. The noise is not too loud. Overall, it is okay. Does look better than the plastic one and is easy to take apart and clean.
5	1386633600	My cats like this.  It is easy to use and easy to wash weekly.  You do need to have an electrical outlet near where you feed your pets.
4	1386633600	This is pretty good. The stainless finish shows hard water spots very easily, and those are a bit hard to clean. Aside from that, this is great. Very quiet.
5	1386633600	I had to get a second automatic waterer for my cat, she loves to play in a regular bowl and will tip it over and make a mess.  She doesn't play in the automatic waterers as much, this one is in the bathroom and works out great.  Both cats drink out of it.  It is a bit loud, could be because it's on tile, but I don't leave it on all the time, just during the day.
4	1386460800	My cats love this fountain. Four stars because the fountain is a pain in the butt to clean. Starts making a little noise if the water runs low, but other then that the fountain is silent.
5	1386288000	This product is great! It is quiet and my kitties love drinking from it!It is also very easy to assemble!
5	1386201600	this is sooooo incredibly quiet and my cats went up right away and started drinking.  Now they are not in the sink and whining for fresh water.  It came disassembled but was super easy to set up.  Love it.
4	1386201600	Nice compact little fountain but needs to be full to keep the motor from sounding loud.  I disassemble and thoroughly clean the fountain once a week but I have to top off the water about every two to three days.
5	1386201600	I really, really love this product. Some people say it's noisy, but I have zero problems with mine. It's super easy to clean and I really like that I can take everything apart and clean it. My cats were a little unsure of it at first, but they warmed up quickly and the kitten loves drinking out of the waterfall part.It definitely encourages them to drink more. I notice I have to top it off every two or three days to keep the motor quiet, but it's not an issue. Would definitely recommend.
1	1386115200	I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND!THE PUMP STOPPED WORKING TWO WEEKS AFTER GETTING IT.  SO WE CLEANED IT AND IT WORKED AND IT WORK FOR A SHORT WHILE THEN IT STOPPED AGAIN, CLEANED OUT, BUT NOW THE PUMP IS MAKING SOME ODD NOISE AND RUNS FOR A MINUTE THEN STOPS.I CALLED PIONEER PET AND GOT A SOME JERK WOMEN WHO MUST BE AN EXPERT ON WATER PUMPS.  SHE FIGURED WITH ALL MY YEARS OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIRENCE COULD NOT FIGURE OUT A $2.00 PUMP.  BAD EXPERIENCE!
2	1386028800	The design looks cool and sounds great in theory but when we got the package and put it together the pump does not work so we basically have a big water dish.
4	1386028800	My cat loves this water bowl! She initially drank from the pool, but I have caught her drinking from the flowing water recently. I followed the advice of one of the other reviewers here on Amazon. I washed the bowl several times to get rid of the funky rubber smell. My biggest complaint is that the pump, pump casing, and stainless steel lid do not always line up. This means that it reduces the water flow (or completely blocks it). After some trial and error I managed to align it properly (the built in alignment marks weren't accurate for my bowl).
4	1386028800	Its a little hard to clean but thats probably just the nature of this sort of water bowl. It works well, the pump has a couple &#34;power&#34; settings, and the cats seem to like it.
4	1386028800	I love how easy this is to clean up and keep nice and shiny.  It does empty fairly quickly and then makes a loud noise, so I have to keep it full all the way to the top.
1	1385942400	The item needs a timer because I just don't like it running all the time.  Maybe it would be better if it turned on for a few minutes every hour or so to keep the water somewhat fresh
5	1385856000	Finally found a quality fountain that solved my himalayan's neck fur getting soaked.  I put tin foil on the lower section to make him use the bubbler at the top which is small enough in diameter to keep the neck fur away from the water.  Pump is quiet and unit easy to clean (plastic fresh and clear gets slimy quickly and difficult to get completely clean)
3	1385856000	Motor gave out in way too short a time and I have not been able to find a replacement.  My cats loved this but since I no longer have a motor I just use it as a plain old water dish. Took a while for my cats to decide to use it without the running water.  It is very easy to clean,
5	1385856000	Easy to set up and keep clean. My cat loves it!I thought it would be quieter, but that's o.k. as long as my cat is happy.
1	1385856000	Cats hated it. The metal gets super slimy really quick, and they never seemed interested in the fountain part.  Then today it just stopped working altogether. Had it just under two months.
5	1385856000	Our cat loves to drink from running water so was always in he sink or tub.  This fountain has solved that problem and he is now very well hydrated.  The pump is pretty quiet.  And his unit is SO easy to keep clean.
5	1385769600	This has been a great purchase, I only wish I had found it years ago. I used a popular brand for many years that was plastic and although it worked well, it yellowed over time, did not look as sleek and was a pain to clean. This is a quick and easy clean and assembly and love that the filters are affordable. I used mine with 5 cats at one time but now only 3 :( I change the filter every 3-4 weeks and use distilled water with it. I find that not using the tap water even though there is a filter helps keep it and the water clean so therefore my cats drink more.
5	1385683200	This fountain is easy to put together and clean--unlike other water fountain's I've had in the past. My cats really love it as well. Just make sure it is full of water at all times or it will start to get loud!
3	1385683200	Cats give it only 3 stars! (I give it 5 stars over the old plastic Drinkwell pans). I purchased both the larger pan and this smaller pan June 2012 (eighteen months ago). It has worked perfectly but the cats ignore this pan. I knew the cats would like one fountain over the other and the larger design wins. The water flows differently in this pan and for some unknown reason the cats like the other larger Pioneer Pet Fountain better. The larger pan sits by their food bowls in the kitchen and this smaller one is stationed in the bedroom where they sleep 20 hours a day. They will walk all the way into the kitchen to get a drink bypassing this pan.We give our cats filtered bottle water (we lost an old cat to kidney stones so the extra step and cost is for my peace of mind). So economically this size pan makes more sense because we change out water completely twice a week. I top up both pans every day with fresh water. I wash the pans in the dishwasher once a week on the sterilize cycle. Midweek I wipe it out with a paper towel and give them new fresh water. So this size is a better fit but the cats vote thumbs down on the design. Both pans sit on a rug so they are quiet. The design is beautiful. I will never own anything but stainless steel again.
1	1385424000	The motor used to pump the water stopped functioning after five uses. When it was in use the cat enjoyed drinking from it.
2	1385424000	Noisy at night a lot of ignorance. Continue operation of water to fill enough not to give just a little bit lower
5	1385424000	Because it made primarily of stainless steel, those parts can be put into the dishwasher to eliminate any food buildup or mildew.  The pump is also easy to clean and it has a replaceable filter.  My cat accepted it quickly and drinks from it often.
2	1385337600	The design of this pet fountain is beautiful! Other than that...it kept getting clogged. I even moved my cats food dish away but I guess he still must have had food in his mouth when he went to take a drink. I had to clean it out 2 to 3 times a week. And then the motor started to make funny noises...even with it being full of water. I suppose the motor was about to die? Maybe? I just wasn't very happy with this pet fountain.
4	1385337600	Smaller than i thought it would be but overall effective and keeps the water clean and clear. The steel helps keep the water colder too. The design is what i liked, just wish the opening was larger for bigger animals to drink out of.
1	1385337600	Despite what it's description said, this machine was too noisy and it scared our cats, so they stayed away from it completely.  We returned this and the extra filters we had ordered to go with it.
4	1385337600	works great! my cat was hesitant at first, but within a day she was drinking lots of water. a friend of mine has one and so i thought i would try it.the only negative is that the motor makes a humming noise that i can hear when their is no background noise in the house. i would rather just hear the flowing water. if it were not for that one negative i would have given five starts. it is easy to set up too. just let the motor prime for about a minute and the water flows nicely.
4	1385337600	Great price and my kitties love it. I have one by their bowls and another in the bedroom. It makes for a popular watering hole and they don't spill. With stainless steel it's also better for preventing that much bacteria from forming.
4	1385251200	The fountain works great.  The cats really love the moving water for drinking.  Our water is a little hard and scaly, so I have been using bottled water and the fountain has stayed amazingly clean.
5	1385251200	I got this because a coworker's maine coon is in love with it, and I found mine does as well. He can't get enough of this awesome fountain.
5	1385251200	The first fountain I bought for my cat was plastic and quickly got fouled and was messy to clean so when I read the description for this item I decided to give it a try.  It&#8217;s great and so easy to clean and I just pop it in the dishwasher and run it through a cycle.  I hate dishwashers and wouldn&#8217;t use mine if I hadn&#8217;t been told by the repairman that it would have to be used once in awhile to keep it from malfunctioning, so cleaning the cat fountain guarantees that this otherwise useless appliance justifies its existence in my kitchen.  Plus my cat loves it because it has lots of water action to watch, a fountain and a spillway and it&#8217;s easy to fill, disassemble for cleaning, and clean.  Buy it, you&#8217;ll like it, it adds sparkle to wherever you put it.
3	1385251200	Having 4 dogs sharing this one fountain, I've discovered it's a lot of work keeping the saliva, slobber, and food particles at bay, even with the filter that I had to replace once a week.  Have not once been able to fully clean the pump parts...even with a toothbrush.  I gave up after 4 months of striving to achieve a sanitary drinking fountain for my dogs. Fountain is stored, along with 3 boxes of filters.  Might be good product for one dog, but not multi-dogs.  Too much work and unsanitary.
2	1385251200	Nothing really wrong with the product, as far as I can tell. My cat just doesn't like it. I really thought she would, since she often paws at her regular water bowl. I figured she wanted to see the water moving, to know it's fresh, as they say. I'm bummed that it didn't work out.
1	1385164800	My cats were afraid drinking from it. It was so noisy, that I sometimes would wake up in the middle of night from its noise.
5	1385078400	has nice water flow , my 2 siamese cats took right to it, first they investigated , then they started drinkin, jury is still out on how long the pump will last , operating 24/7 I do not expect the pump to last more than 2 years,does Pioneer pet supply sell pump replacements? if so this would be the best way to change out
5	1384905600	Love this pet watering dish.  It Is very nice looking  and  it cleans easily.  It runs quiet.  It  makes a slight noise when needing water but It is a warning to replenish water.  My two dogs dlove to use the bubbling fountain feature.
5	1384819200	Fountain works wonderfully. The cat took to this bowl immediately. She would wait to drink water from the bathroom sink when I was getting dressed in the morning. But with this, she definitely started drinking more water, and didn't wait until I turned on the bathroom sink.The pump is a little finicky and did not like being plugged in to an extension cord plugged in to the wall. It preferred to be directly plugged in.
5	1384819200	My cats love it.  Made well, very high quality. I've been using it for almost 2 years with no problems.
5	1384732800	I love this fountain and the cats love it too. So much easier then the ceramic fountain to clean. I don't have to worry about breaking something. I wish I would have bought this fountain first.
4	1384732800	My cats drink a lot more now with a water fountain, but I feel like the first time you let the water get too low you do some irreversible damage to the cheap water pump this comes with.  It was whisper quiet when I first got it, but I let the water get too low once and some air got into the water pump and ever since then it's been louder than normal and doesn't pump the water quite as well.  Even after disassembling the pump and scrubbing it out, it's not like it was on day one.  I've found this to hold true with other similar products that seem to use the same style of pump.
4	1384732800	This arrived the other day, and I just set it up last night, and both of my cats absolutely love it - they keep going over to it to have a drink.  The cat that is usually scared of anything new, in fact, was the first to investigate and take a drink, and that was before I figured out how to get the water flowing.  They always were just &#34;meh&#34; with water dishes, including the plastic fountain I was using, but this is like a cat magnet right now.The only reason I am only giving this a 4 is the lack of clear directions. This was possibly the worst set up instructions I've seen yet on anything I've bought in recent years, and there are some pretty bad ones (I have shopped at Ik**, so I know bad instructions).
3	1384646400	I bought this for my 13 year old Pookie who is diabetic and it took me over an hour and four good tries to get the motor to work and the many parts that must be in alignment for the fountain to flow correctly, not looking forward to doing this again when it comes time to clean it. When I first moved it to room where it would be used Pookie was interested until it made crazy noise and spalsh water up in the air. Now, I do not know if he will even drink from it. It has the same chinese pump that was in the system I bought at Bed Bath abd Beyond and that pump stopped working after two months, I don't have a good feeling about this one althought he bowl looks nice, not worth the money I spent.
3	1384646400	Got it for 1 cat. He loves it put he doesn't have to clean it every week. The silver gets water stained easily.  And as fast as I am going through filters it is expensive.  Going back to a easy to clean bowl.
1	1384473600	Purchased this fountain 5 months ago and followed instructions for replacing the filters.  The motor completely stopped working. I called Pioneer Pet and they would not warranty the motor.  They said I would have to purchase another product.
4	1384473600	So far the fountain has been working, but I have had to troubleshoot twice, and I've only used it for 4 weeks.  I have been very careful to maintain the required amount of water in the bowl so that the pump doesn't run with too low a volume.  I clean the bowl and the pump every week because we have hard water where I live.  I am also using a filter.  Last week when I cleaned the pump and put it back together again, it didn't work.  I took it apart again and noticed that the impeller had a slight amount of lime buildup on it, so I cleaned it off and put it back together again.  It still didn't work.  I took it apart again, and this time after I put the impeller back in, I turned the impeller several times using a paper clip (it was difficult to spin with my finger), and then it worked.  Later that week I noticed that the pump had stopped.  I took it apart, rinsed it and again used the paper clip to spin the impeller several times.  So far it's been working, and I hope it continues to do so.  I don't understand why the impeller suddenly became difficult to turn with my finger (that wasn't the case when I first purchased the fountain).  It does run quietly (sometimes I have to position it so that it doesn't vibrate on the floor).  I have one dog that doesn't shed much or slobber, and one cat that drinks out of it.  My kitten isn't as fond of the fountain.  He still prefers to drink from a faucet, but has used the fountain.  I only gave it 4 stars because I'm concerned that the impeller is malfunctioning.  It's a simple piece, so I don't know what would cause it to be more difficult to spin.  I don't see any lime buildup in the pump housing.Update: Sunday (11/17/13) when I was doing my normal weekly maintenance on the fountain I noticed that the bowl had a bit of lime buildup on it.  It wasn't coming off easily with a sponge, so I used a lime removing solution to clean it.  I decided to put a little into the pump housing to see if it would help with the difficulty turning the impeller.  I swished it around and rinsed, and repeated the process.  The impeller turned like it did when new and the pump worked on the first trial!  So I've come to the conclusion that even when you can't see lime buildup in the pump housing, it's probably there if your bowl has a buildup of lime.  Be cautioned that the lime removing solution can discolor the stainless steel (it did on my bowl), but it can be improved with stainless steel polish.  Regardless, I think that a little discoloration is preferable to a pump in a fountain that doesn't work.  I'm going to make this part of my monthly maintenance on the pump (since I've had the fountain for approximately 1 month).  Also, if you choose to use a lime removing solution, be sure to wash and rinse the parts thoroughly to ensure that the solution is entirely removed.  I often use white vinegar for this type of thing, but vinegar isn't as strong, so it requires soaking for a while to be effective.  I'd rather have the process completed quickly so the fountain can be used immediately.
4	1384473600	Our cats ( 2 - 9month old kittens)only drink out of the still water part , but we like it, and think it still encourages them to drink.  At first they were a little fascinated with the fountain, but now just drink out of the still part.  I think that it is moving a little makes it more enticing.
4	1384387200	after reading all the reviews on Amazon, I decided to buy the fountain mid-September 2013. I was very careful with the motor in putting it in place, Made sure the filter was secure--carefully. Then filled it with water.Plugged it in. Took about a minute to get the water pumping through, but when it did, it seemed fine. The motor was and still is very quiet. It gets a tiny bit noisy when the water level starts to get too low, which is a great reminder for me to fill it.So far we've had no issues (knock on wood). The cats drink and like to stick their paws in the moving water. When I put an ice cube in, they're eyes never leave the fountain until the cube melts away. Funny.
5	1384387200	It is handsome and well-designed, takes up little space, and offers my water-picky cat 3 different ways to drink: straight from the fountain, from the riverlike slide, and from the bowl.  Because the water circulates, there's no sense of stagnation.  And the filter turns harsh city chlorinated water into something purer and sweeter.  It is the only thing I've ever found that my guy will drink from.  Of course, I do change the water every couple of days and clean the fountain inside and out at least once a week. Great product!
5	1384387200	Keeps the water fresh all the time. My cat drinks more and I don't have to worry about the water going stagnate..
5	1384387200	Very happy with this purchase, and my (excessively difficult) cat had no problem adjusting to her shiny new bowl.  I even caught her looking at her own reflection!I previously owned the black & white plastic version of this design.  This model is superior in several areas:1) there is a 'clamshell' housing for the pump, ensuring proper alignment with the hole in the top, and making cleaning and reassembly quick and easy. The filter cartridge sits in this housing.2) quiet3) easy to keep clean4) lighter weight, and easier to grip/carry when fullSome reviewers have noted problems that I've experienced (even with the previous model), but addressed, as follows:a) noise - keeping the bowl full reduces noise -- as will adjusting the pump to the right flow (below)b) splashing -- If the water level drops by even 25%, the pump 'sputters' and there is splashing.  Also, adjust the small sliding lever on the pump to reduce/increase water flow to a 'splash free' rate.c) residue/cloudy water due to the filter cartridge -- I always gently shake, then soak/agitate in water for 2-3 mins, then rinse prior to use.  Simply rinsing will not remove all of the charcoal dust.
5	1384214400	I decided to replace a relatively new Drinkwell 360 because it was a maintenance nightmare. I chose the Pioneer Pet Raindrop because it was alleged to be easy to maintain. I've had it for about 3 months now and can attest that washing it is extremely easy, making it simple to keep very clean. I highly recommend this product.
2	1384214400	Not very good. After cleaning it exactly as recommended, I still had the pump fail. Good luck trying to replace it. It was like pulling teeth and then they ask all kinds of questions as if it were your fault. Straight into the recycle bin. Do not suggest this purchase.
5	1384214400	I bought this for my two younger cats who really prefer to drink out of a faucet.  However, running a faucet all day isn't really an option so I got this.  They loved it!  The shyer of the two took a little while to approach it, but now he lets me know if the water level gets too low and waits for me to fill it up so he can drink from it right away.  Both cats drink from the pool and the fountain.At times, it can be a little noisy.  However, this is usually solved by adjusting the top of the fountain so there's less vibration, filling the water up, or adjusting where the pump is sitting.I've never had an issue with leaks or overflows.  It generally cleans up nicely, although my water is fairly hard.  If there is calcium build-up, I scrub it thoroughly with a sponge and some Lime Away.  I also ended up getting a baby bottle brush to clean out the tubes and small spaces.Long story short: well worth the price!!
5	1384128000	My cats love drinking out of the faucet but I hate having to always turn it on and off. This makes drinking so much better for them. the filter keeps the water clean. I change the water every day. They love drinking from this.
5	1384041600	My one cat likes this fountain but rarely drinks from the top bubbler. He prefers to sip from the large ponding area at the bottom. As long as he's drinking, I'm pleased. He took right to it. My other cat stares at the thing but drinks out of the old bowl which is still in use. Life's too short to try to make a cat do something it doesn't want, so if we need two vessels for water, so be it.I have double filtered water but still bought and used the filter for this machine.The machine is very quiet. I have it on a soft food mat so it doesn't rattle on my tile.I clean the unit up to twice a week. It's really simple but the top portion top has sharp edges. Poor design. I wouldn't want kids cleaning this thing.Amazon gave me a great price, better than my holistic and big box pet stores. I'd considered the plastic fountains but feel this is more sanitary.
5	1384041600	My four cats simply love this fountain! The spout certainly draws their attention, and they all stopped by to drink out of it before I even had it completely set up. I had a plastic one before this model, and while they did use it, they never seemed real enthused about it and preferred to drink out of a water glass. Now I am able to get rid of the water glass and they don't seem to mind!  Which is great, because its hard to explain to guests that the water glass on the table is not for them!
4	1384041600	Its a great way to get your roommates to stop leaving all the damn faucets on for their %&*^$% spoiled cats.
5	1384041600	Tried the more expensive Drinkwell 360 ...great concept & real nice looking but so big my cats were afraid to drink out of it & also tried another popular stainless steel brand. Ended up returning both of these because neither of my cats would drink out of them even the one that only likes to drink out of the kitchen or bath faucetMy cats love drinking out of the Pioneer fountain & the smaller size of the Raindrop design works great..Easy to assemble & quiet.
1	1383955200	Worthless junk!  The water inlet to the pump is too high and the bowl has to be full to the brim at all times or the pump will be screaming.  It seemed as if the dog drank at all during the day the pump would be dry when I got home even though there was plenty of water in the bowl.  It lasted about 3 weeks before the pump motor died.
5	1383868800	I purchased this unit to replace the small fountain for my cats.  I've since purchased the large version of this same fountain for use by all three of my dogs and my two cats, and they love it.  The cats need to have a fountain near their water, which I keep in a room that only they can access... while everyone gets along admirably, they have to have some respite from the dogs.Rather than repeat everything I've said in my other review, I'll simply state the outstanding facts:  This unit is VERY easy to clean, stays clean longer than any other fountain I've used, makes no noise, and the pets love it.  What more can you ask for?
4	1383696000	Bought this 6 weeks ago, cats loved it but ... the motor stopped working.  Now I just have an expensive bowl.Updated from 1 to 4 stars:I contacted Pioneer Pet regarding the busted motor to see if there was some warranty I can use.  They advised me to clean the motor (I found a youtube video) and it turned out there was a lot of cat hair trapped where the magnet was.  After I cleaned it out, everything was working again.  The e-mail support person was very nice and did offer to help if the cleaning didn't work.  I now clean out the motor every time I clean the bowl.  Seems to be working fine now.  Cats are loving it.  Now if I can only get them to stop getting so much hair in the motor.
2	1383609600	This fountain is loud! My cats would still rather drink out of the faucet. I never see them use this.
1	1383523200	This may be the only product I have ever returned to Amazon. It did not work as advertised and was quite flimsy. The pieces were difficult to put together and badly labeled, and then having spent far too much time on putting it together, it immediately stopped working. Very disappointing.
4	1383523200	Fussy to put together and hard to clean, but easy to scrub because it's stainless - my cat definitely likes the way it bubbles up.
5	1383436800	My cats were initially nervous about the fountain, but within an hour or so they LOVED it and will only drink from the fountain now! It is also very quick and easy to clean and pretty quiet!
5	1383436800	My cats used to have a plastic fountain that we eventually got rid of. It was always covered with slime and other grossness, no matter how often I cleaned it. The motor was constantly clogged and therefore was loud and inefficient. Plus it was ugly. This fountain is working out wonderfully. It looks better, stays clean, keeps working, and the kitties love it. Definitely worth the price.
4	1383350400	I would have given this five stars if my cat loved it; however, it has taken some time for her to get comfortable with it.  It operates quietly, so I don't think the sound bothers her.  She is just skittish and it takes time when they are like that.  It has been about a week and she is using it, so I am happy about that.I read other reviews stating how easy this was to clean and I have to agree.  I have owned 2 other pet fountains similar to this and compared to those, this one is by far the easiest to clean.What most people don't realize is when it comes to any fountain with a pump, it is necessary to take apart the pump and clean it.  This prevents the &#34;slime&#34; or &#34;mold&#34; in the water.  I change the water daily or every other day and clean the pump roughly every 2-3 weeks. If you don't know how to take apart the pump, &#34;google&#34; it.
4	1383264000	MY 2 OLDER CATS REQUIRE A WATER CHANGE ( WITH ICE CUBES ) A DOZEN TIMES A DAY , SO I THOUGHT THAT THIS WOULD RETRAIN THEM , AND KEEP THE WATER FILTERED ( SILLY ME ). I ORDERED THE CERAMIC ONE TWICE , AND BOTH TIMES IT SHOWED UP IN A MILLION PIECES !!! THE QUALITY OF THIS IS VERY GOOD , AND IT WORKS THE WAY IT IS SUPPOSED TO .MY CATS JUST COULDN'T STAND TO GIVE UP THAT "CONTROL FACTOR" OVER ME , AND REFUSED TO USE IT .I WOULD RECOMMEND YOU START OFF YOUR NEW KITTY WITH THIS !!
5	1383264000	All the other reviews touting this product are CORRECT! I wanted an easy-to-use and easy-to-clean water fountain, and this is worth every penny. There is minimal plastic in this design (just the filter housing), so I feel good about being able to sanitize this product with just hot water. Other buyers are correct that you can go a week before you need to clean it out. Just be careful in arid climates, or, in my case, when the weather is colder and dryer, because the water will need to be refilled throughout the week to avoid stressing the motor.My cat took to this fountain as soon as I opened the box, assembled it, and filled it with water. He immediately drank from the fountain instead of the reservoir.We both love it.
5	1383264000	I love that this is stainless steel.  Cuts down on buildup of algae.  My cats love it!  Very happy that I went with this for my cats water bowl.
1	1383177600	Don't get me wrong, I love this product. It is beautiful and my cat loves it, and the sound of running water is very relaxing. However, I don't know if it is my water or what, but slime grows inside the bowl at such a rate that I cannot get it off enough for the cat to safely drink out of. Because the mouth of the bowl is so wide, anything can fall into it- dust, debris, pet hair, human hair.. and then your cat drinks out of it. I clean these once a week and always replace the filter twice a month, yet the slime and little debris just accumulates in every corner of the bowl, even on the cables of the pump. And oh! The pump. Don't get me started. It WILL break, and it will fail on you. I have bought two replacements and all of them fail within a few months. I am no longer using this product. Now I'm back to using a simple dish which I can clean and refill every day. Sigh!
5	1383177600	Price of the product is reasonable and love the look and how quiet it is. It keeps my pets water clean and fresh being stainless steel and so easy to clean!
3	1383091200	I have used this &#34;fountain&#34; now for several months.  When I originally ordered it, I also ordered extra filters.  I had a terrible time with the filters.  They are filled with a very fine charcoal that tends to &#34;leak&#34; into the water....and it looks nasty!  I tried rinsing them....tried everything!  I have finally decided to do away with the filter.  With the filter, I changed the water 6 times a day!  Now I only change the water twice a day!  It is just an ok product, but I would not recommend it.  When you fill it, it is then hard to carry without spilling water all over the place.  I have 8 cats....and they tend to use a ceramic bowl more often than this fountain.  I think the idea of it being stainless steel is a good idea....but it is very hard to keep clean getting rid of hard water spots.  Overall....not happy with this purchase!
5	1383091200	I really like this fountain.  I like the fact that it is easy to clean.  I do have very hard water, but the water spots and deposits clean up great with a little vinegar.
4	1383004800	I purchased the "Pioneer Pet Stainless Fountain Raindrop Design" for my kitten because I wanted to ensure that she have fresh water. She loves drinking from the fountain. Sometimes the stainless steel rubs together and makes this loud noise so I placed a small piece of tooth pick between the hood and the bowl which helped. The fountain is very easy to clean and set up. I also placed the fountain over a rug with plastic backing to protect my hardwood floors because between the fountain splashing (on low setting) and the kitty slurping, drops of water sometimes escapes. I check the rug often to make sure the floor is dry.  I really do enjoy watching my kitty drinking from the fountain.
4	1382918400	The Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop Design works very well but it is somewhat noisy.  It is very easy to clean and maintain.
1	1382918400	I had to return the dish since the pump was to weak to move the water and did not run consistently.
5	1382918400	After only 4 months, the motor has stopped working.  I have been faithful and cleaning it and replacing the filter.  No options to purchase new motor?I called the manufacture this AM and received wonderful assistance from them.  They walked me through my product and will send a new motor to me.I now think the company is pretty wonderful!Now I rate it 5 star!
1	1382832000	It's got an electrical cord coming out the back - I thought there was a battery as I didn't see any cord in the product photo.  The cord is black (looks like a long bug to my dog) and when plugged into the wall gets SUPER hot in a very short time.  I would never leave my house with this plugged in, nor at night.  I tried to put it on a timer - but the plug receptors are unusual and none of the timers worked.  Frustrated also by the noise this thing makes when plugged in.  We have a fairly large home - and at night we heard it all the way across the house.  Not even the fridge is this loud.  Great idea - our dog was immediately fine with the moving water system - and I think hydrating the water is an interesting idea.  Poorly executed - too loud, too hot and it takes a cord.
5	1382745600	In the pas we have used the Drinkwell fountains, but they were difficult to clean and because they were plastic they absorbed more odors even though I faithfully washed them out weekly. The cats stopped liking the Drinkwell fountains and eventually started peeing in their water bowl!After that I found this bowl on Amazon. It is super easy to clean in comparison. Make sure to read the directions, the pump itself comes apart so you can clean inside it and keep the water tasting good for the cats.We have 2 Bengals, and they like water. We initially switched to a fountain instead of a standard water bowl because they would dig out the water and dump the water bowl over. (It's a weird Bengal thing) Both the stainless steel and ceramic version have worked well. If you a fellow Bengal owner that has problems with water digging, I used electrical tape to make a cross cross over the larger bowl opening to train the cats not to dig and just drink from the spout. After a couple months, no more digging!As for some of the complaints about the pump being too loud. It is louder than the older version. Make sure to keep the bowl full (with two cats I refill a couple times a week) If the bowl is full it doesn't make a noticeable amount of noise.In summary if you are deciding between the Drinkwell and the Pioneer Pet fountains, choose Pioneer Pet!
5	1382745600	If this fountain holds up, it will be my favorite of the three that I have had.  The first was a platinum drinkwell which was very difficult to wash whereas this one is very simple and easy to keep clean.  The second fountain was ceramic but had a wide, shallow bowl.  Carrying it to the kitchen to clean it inevitably meant water sloshing out onto the floor.  I'm very pleased that this one is smaller and has a deep bowl.  It might not work for a household with multiple animals but it's perfect for my single cat. The picture online was not helpful.  The reflection of the shiny stainless steel made it difficult to see the design.  In fact, it has a single stream of water that creates three different areas for drinking. As with all of the fountains, it is quietest when it is completely full and gets noisier as the water level drops. The design of this fountain is so simple that directions aren't needed for assembly. Thanks to the reviewer who said that Pioneer provides instructions for cleaning the pump.
5	1382486400	...however, I bought the bowl for my cat who I know loves running water. This cat will put his entire head in the water when it runs out of the faucet. He has already been to this bowl 5-6 times today and we just set it up about 4 hours ago. My other cat hates water of all kinds, so I assumed she wouldn't be a fan. She sniffed it and kept walking.The unit was easily put together, and it's super quiet once the water starts pumping. I will definitely be taking advice and getting some charcoal and stuff from the fish section at the pet store to replace in the filter every month or so.VERY happy with this purchase, but I also knew that my cat loves running water.
5	1382400000	Both of my kittens use the heck out of this, and I'm so glad. I really appreciate how easy it is to keep clean. My only issue? One of my kittens is a fairly flat-faced Persian and she has to dunk her whole face in there to reach the water, even when it's full to the brim in the morning (before they drink half of it while I'm away at work). Whoops! I'm looking into the other stainless design by Pioneer Pet since it is wide open and probably better for a flat face. But on the whole, this water fountain is a success.
5	1382140800	Love it,  its so easy to keep clean with no little  hidden corners to keep clean. Its quiet and my cat enjoys it too!
2	1382140800	this product has no replacement filters although I ordered  them. came with wrong filters. pretty product, used and washed daily until filters leaked and then put into a box until I can find replacement filters...not likely...been looking for two plus years
5	1382054400	Easy to clean, easy to install & replace filters, easy to keep clean. Me & my 2 pets LOVE this Pioneer pet fountain.  I am very pleased with how effortless it is to install....take a chance on this product if you've been thinking about getting a fountain waterer. FANTASTIC
5	1382054400	My two cats loves to drink from the fountain, and would stare at the fountain trying to catch bubbles all day. It's pretty funny. My roommate's cat would sneak into my room just to drink from this water fountain. (she just uses a bowl filled with water for her cat)It's pretty easy to clean, I haven't had trouble with it, and it is very quiet!
4	1381881600	I HAVE A LARGE BREED OF CAT FULL GROWN (RAGDOLL) , SHE DOESN'T DRINK WATER SO I THOUGHT SHE'D BE ATTRACTED TO IT . i BOUGHT IT A MONTH OR SO AND SHE'S TRIED 1 OR 2 SIPS AND THAT'S ABOUT IT .  WHATS THE SAYING YOU CAN LEAD A CAT TO WATER BUT YOU CAN'T MAKE THEM DRINK .  THAT'S MY CAT UNFORTUNATELY , I HAVEN'T GIVEN UP AS SHE'LL SIT AND WATCH THE TRICKLING OF THE FOUNTAIN AND PAWS AT IT ONCE IN A WHILE .. i LOVE IT , I CAN'T ANSWER FOR THE CAT ....
1	1381881600	I need to replace the water more frequently. it keep mildewing. It would work perfectly if it weren't for that.
5	1381795200	After about 4 days my 16 year old Ragdoll started to use this and she prefers it to her water bowl.  Our Persian cat watched her use it and started to use it as well.  I totally recommend this product its great!  Looks good too.
4	1381622400	I had Pioneer's ceramic water fountain.  My cats loved it.  But I broke it accidentally.  So, I bought a metal one, thinking it is hard to break.  It is smaller than ceramic one.  But cleans well.  My cats got scared for the first week because it is shiney and makes more noise than ceramic one.  Small in size is not too bad, but I have to refill or add water more often.  My cats got used to this one and use it without problem now.  I think Pioneer pet water fountain is great for my cat, btu it is expensive to buy filters.  I wish they sell cheaper.
5	1381536000	It's funny; I bought this for my cats but my dog loves it more.  It makes a strange noise when it runs low, which reminds me to refill it.
3	1381536000	the pump or this bowl far exceeds its volume the switch for the flow control after 3 wks. is rendered useless.
5	1381363200	I saw this in the pet store for double the price.  My cats love it.  It's the perfect size, doesn't really make any noise, aerates the water and the moving water entertains the cats.  My cats are drinking more water because of it.
5	1381276800	I have two cats, one with urinary problems and one without. I got the fountain to encourage the one with problems to drink more water. I've had it for just over a month now. My cat without problems began to drink from it after about two full days of watching it. The cat who I really wanted to drink out of it didn't touch it for nearly a MONTH. She now is drinking from it every day and seems to be drinking more water. I just wanted to post this to tell others to give it some time, and your little cat may come around.Also wanted to mention it's a breeze to clean and literally takes less than 5 minutes. The filters are pretty cheap if you buy the 9-pack here on Amazon.
5	1381276800	Dont let anyone fool ya, this is a quiet machine & all I have to do is top it off with some distilled water every other day & clean it every two weeks & I have two cats & one kitten. pretty large sized bowl as well. pump & filter work great !!! just change the filter every time you clean it. I really love it honestly.
5	1381276800	Very well made, sturdy, great quality.  You must keep it clean in order for the pump to run properly.  Well worth the money.
5	1381276800	Great design that allows cats to drink from the 'fountain' area or from the water well.  Keeps water fresh and clean as it circulates the water through the unit, and through the filter.  Design and material allow for super-easy cleaning, comes apart easily for either hand or dishwasher cleaning, and goes back together with no difficulty.  My cats drink so much more water from the fountain!  A must have for every household with cats.
5	1381190400	My cat often exhibits negative reactions to changes in her everyday life.  I bought her a new cat-tree and it took 18 months for her to fully accept the new one.  While this fountain is similar to her old one, the shape and configuration of the waterfall is different.  I started by placing the new fountain next to the old one and she drank from both.  I then let her old dish run low on water so that the waterfall did not work.  After 2 weeks I removed the old one and left this fountain in the raindrop design as to only one available.  I also talked to her vet about the advantages of stainless steel over plastic (her old fountain) and possibly replacing her hanging ID tag to an ID riveted-on her collar.  I take the fountain apart every other week and check the filter for cat-hair build-up, wipe out the interior and exterior, and replace the water. The minor water spotting on the exterior is unavoidable but something that I can live with.
4	1381104000	I really  like this fountain. Very easy to clean. Easy to fill with water.Just wish my cat liked it as much as me.  Had to go back to the drink well fountain because my cat prefers it over this one. But I still recommend it.
5	1380931200	Niki, the cat who owns me, needed a small drinking fountain.  His food and water are placed on a kitchen counter top, away from the dog's greedy gaze.  The size is perfect, it's quiet, easy to maintain and best of all Niki is drinking more water!
4	1380931200	It took awhile-but my cats now love this machine-even drinking from the bubbler part-and my male cat needs to drink to stay healthy!
5	1380931200	The product is not very large which is great for small dogs or cats.  I have 2 cats.  I got rid of my plastic water filter fountain, because my cat develope skin acne below her lip.  I read that the stainless stell is more hygenic for cats.  I bought two of these for my two story home.
5	1380844800	My two cats love to drink from the fountain and they love the Kattipede. The kattipede's side legs really attract my cats attention.
5	1380844800	I have had this in service for almost two months. I like the way is easily comes apart for cleaning and how quiet it is compared to my last watering device. My two cats like it because it offers multiple ways to drink. They can get water at the bubbler, the end of the the chute or from the tray. I got it on a super sale which made it all the better. Highly recommend and has proven to be enough for two cats with out any problem. I have to add water twice a week which is by me as another bonus is that you just pour the water in the big tray and do not need to remove any parts to refill.
4	1380758400	I think this pet dish is worth the money.  My cat though, has not been drinking from it when the fountain is flowing.I believe it will just take some time for her to get use to the movement and bubbling of the water.
5	1380672000	This unit is sparkling silver color and easy to refill each day.  I am so glad to have filtered water for the cats to drink.  I don;t think that they really like it like a sink running, but perhaps time will tell.
2	1380585600	It worked fine at the beginning but by month 6 the motor broke. I have had a fountain like this for my cat before that lasted a couple years but the hard water damage forced me to get a new one. While the design is nice and aesthetically pleasing, the parts themselves did not last long enough to make this worth the money.
5	1380412800	This is so beautiful. I replaced a white plastic fountain with a tall reservior, with this one...and it looks spectacular in my kitchen with all the other stainless stuff. Also, with this model I can open the entire dishwasher and load and unload it, without having to move it out of the way like I did with the other one. It has a nice, low profile, but it still keeps a decent amount of water in it for my two cats.
5	1380326400	I bought this pet fountain Jan., 2013. It's easy to clean, easy to use and I would buy it again today!  It works great and both my cats still like and use it.  They both drink more water since I've had it which is good since cats can be prone to urinary tract issues, especially the older ones.  The fountain (or any water source) should be kept several feet away from where the cats eat. By instinct cats associate water that is too close to "the kill" as possibly being contaminated and prefer not to drink there.  I take it apart, rinse it out and give fresh water every Saturday. Takes about 5 minutes.  The trick to keeping it from being noisy is to line up the pump spout with the hole in the top cover so that it's not in a bind when the top is pushed down into place. The top may rattle if it's in a bind.  The pump has suction cup feet and can be moved around in the bottom tray when it's wet. Just look down through the hole in the top as you put the top on and move the pump as needed.  Also keep it mostly full.  I bought extra filters and change it every month per directions. The filters aren't very expensive but you can rebuild the old ones very easily if you prefer.  Just pry them open with a small screwdriver, put the felt pieces a laundry bag, wash and air dry.  Replace the activated charcoal with what you can buy at the pet store.  Put everything back in and snap it back together.  I rework 4 or 5 old filters at a time.
4	1380240000	My cat does not drink water or eat dry food .  she eats only Friskie's with gravy can food , and hasn't taken to the fountain yet . she has pawed it a bit and tried biting the water from the fountain but that's about it . shes very finicky .  did you hear the saying you can lead a horse to water but you can't make her drink , well that's my cat ....
5	1380240000	I have two cats and both are complete opposites.  One loves to drink out of the sink and refuses water in a dish.  The other only drinks water from a dish and is fascinated with the dishwasher, shower, garbage disposal, etc.  To my surprise, both cats IMMEDIATELY drank from the fountain.  The sink drinker drank from the dish area and the dish drinker drinks from the top of the fountain.  This water dish completely surprised me and both cats love it.  I couldn't be happier.
4	1380153600	The product was as advertised and arrived promptly, but the cats will not drink from it even after a month.
5	1379980800	My cat, BJeezus, won't drink from anything plastic. He also doesn't drink that much water. Only after playing really hard or eating something salty. The fact that he goes to the fountain when I turn it on in the morning is terrific. He also goes to it sometimes to drink the little puddle at the top (when the fountain's off). He likes to &#34;discover&#34; water and drink it. He won't drink out of a running sink; so this is the next best thing. Expensive, but cheaper than the vet.
4	1379894400	We ordered this dish because we were having trouble getting our dogs to drink water regularly. At the time, we lived in Florida, so this was a problem. The bowl definitely entices our dogs to come have a drink. They love the bubbles at the top and the movement of the water seems really attractive to them. The bowl also keeps the water really cool and clean so I don't feel like I have to change it all the time.I only gave this system four stars because it lost its luster really quickly. I don't know if it is calcium build up but the top portion has a whiteish residue on it that I can't quite seem to scrub off. As far as I can tell this is just a natural development from use and it doesn't hurt anything, except for how pretty it looks.The unit is really quiet and easy to clean, and the filters are really easy to find and change. It doesn't take up a lot of space and it works great for my two small dogs. I only have to refill it every couple of days, and I give it a cleaning whenever it looks a little dingy. When I bought it, the system was on sale, so the price was right in the range of what I was looking for. If you are looking for a small, quiet, easy to maintain pet water fountain, this is a great choice.
5	1379808000	This is my second Pioneer Water Fountain, both in great working condition.  I have the Big Max for my dog and purchased the Raindrop Design for my cats.  I love that it is stainless steel and easy to clean.  I have had other brand fountains but they were plastic and a lot of little places that were hard to clean.  The plastic never comes completely clean.  The Pioneer has two pieces besides the filter/motor.  No little corners that you can't get to. I purchased the raindrop design even though I have the Big Max because my cats like to play with running water and I wanted them to have a water dish they did not have to share with the dog.  Also the water flows differently in the two fountains.
3	1379808000	The fountain does need to be cleaned almost every 2 days.  We have to take everything apart and clean thoroughly as the fountain's bubbling will slow down to a trickle after about 2 days.
5	1379721600	Our cat absolutely loves this.  We just bought the same one when it needed replacing.  It's easy to clean, easy to fill and keeps our cat hydrated.
1	1379548800	The fountain broke within a month.  We threw it out because using it as just a bowl, it looked like a bedpan.  Don't buy this and if you do, hold off on buying extra filters until you actually need them.  Otherwise you'll end up with a broken fountain AND unused filters.  What a waste!!!
4	1379462400	My pets love this. It makes a funny sound when empty but otherwise it is great. Great for multiple oets
5	1379376000	My little cat now drinks more water than she has in a long while:) It's  very neat and easy to clean:)
5	1379289600	It's fairly quiet and my cat likes it. He is no longer begging for you to turn on the bathroom faucet for a drink, nor is he spilling his water dish all over the floor.
4	1379289600	A little cumberson to keep clean.The cats love it to drink and play in the water.Shows hard water stains.
5	1379289600	Have tried all the plastics ones, they work the first week. This fountain just keeps going and going love it!!!
5	1379203200	This fountain is MUCH BETTER than the first fountain (Drixx xxll) I bought. It is super easy to clean. All parts can be easily dissembled and reassembled. Also it is light, and looks decent (does not look cheap). The motor noise is not annoying. Most importantly, my cat loves watching water flowing in the fountain and DO drink water from it.
3	1379203200	These are ok but if your have well water the hard water eats into the metal and I have to throw them out.
5	1379116800	Cats love to drink out of the fountain.  This is a great water fountain and has a filter.  It is easy to clean with minimal parts compared to other fountains.
1	1378944000	At first when I bought this I thought I had hit the jackpot! My cat's (who are usually very picky about everything) were super interested in this and drank more than I've ever seen at one time.  But slowly over time I became more and more disappointed with this fountain. I bought it in stainless steel and it began to create a film of yuck one day after cleaning.  Not to mention to clean this thing is such a chore. Eventually I got frustrated with having to rinse and clean morning and night so I got rid of it.  Disappointed is an understatement.
5	1378944000	This is a very nice pet fountain, barely hear it, easy to put together. I like that it is stainless.....I had a plastic one which worked for quite a long time but the material always got so scummy. Good price and quick ship.
5	1378944000	This is an almost perfect product. It's well-designed, very easy to clean with no hard-to-reach nooks and crannies (unlike most competitor products), and it just works. My cat started drinking way more water when we got this fountain, and this is pretty much the reason why you want this thing in your house to begin with.Things I would have liked:- Slightly quieter pump. It's not really THAT noisy, but if your house is very quiet otherwise, you will notice (my fridge is quieter than the pump so I notice)- A cover for the open area. My cat doesn't like still water so only running water gets him interested, and he loves drinking from the stream while standing with both of his front paws submerged in water (yes, he's weird). And he loves to dunk his sponge balls in water as well. Needless to say, this creates a lot of mess and wet paw prints everywhere that could have been easily avoided. I understand that my situation is probably fairly uncommon, but an optional cover would be really, really nice.4 1/2 stars really, but I'll stretch it to 5, since it's a really well-designed product.
5	1378771200	Looks great, works great :) At first my dogs were a little scared of the fountain but they adapt to the change pretty quickly.
5	1378771200	My cat loves his Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel fountain .  The moving water attracts him anf he loves drinking from the bubbling spout.Best product I ever bought for Sammy.
3	1378684800	this is a great idea and it looked pretty when i got it. but now it has hard water deposits that are impossible to remove. but it's easy to clean so i gave it 3 stars.
4	1378684800	My little guy seems to like this fountain (now that he's used to it). It took him a bit to adjust to this from his other (bigger) fountain, but seems to be using it now. This is a LOT easier to clean than my last (drinkwell) fountain & I like the stainless steel.
5	1378684800	This is a nice fountain, my cat is a little skiddish and the last fountain we had made too much noise.  This is much quieter and she appears to like it better.  The flowing water encourages cats to drink more water and leads to a healthier cat.
5	1378598400	This works great for my cats and foster kitty's when they are here. My deaf kitty enjoys laying next to it, I think between the coolness and the vibrations it's soothing to her
5	1378598400	I've had this less than a week and I already think it will be a great product. I had one of the big plastic fountains which worked well but was very hard to clean. It always looked a little scummy even if washed in the dishwasher.  The stainless steel in the new one is great, It comes apart very easily and washes up and shines like new. Delivery was very quick.
3	1378512000	The water pump has 4 settings.  Mine arrived set to "pump?  why should I pump?" So after putting the thing together, filling it full of water, plugging it in and waiting 2 minutes nothing happened.  Following the troubleshooting instructions I disassembled the whole thing and fiddled with the pump settings.  (The instructions said to make sure the setting was "2nd from the end" but didn't say WHICH end.  Naturally the first adjustment turned out to be wrong so I had to take it apart again before I finally got it working right.What I should have done (and what you should do if you buy this product, which really does work quite well once it's set up properly) is this: before assembling the fountain put the pump in the kitchen sink and fill the sink with enough water to cover the pump by a couple of inches.  Then plug it in.  You can see how well it will pump the water in the fountain and make whatever adjustments are necessary BEFORE putting the fountain together, and thus avoid the repeated assembling and disassembling that I had to go through.Having said that, now that it's working it's great.  The cats much prefer this to their old bowl of "stagnant" water.  They used to try to mooch a drink from the bathroom sink when I brushed my teeth but now they prefer their own water fountain.  Even though it's a pain, I suggest using bottled water to avoid lime buildup, which is a problem with the hard water in my city.Update: the pump gave out after 4 months.
5	1378512000	Our cat doesn't beg to drink out of the faucet anymore and it couldn't be any easier to clean. The stainless steel is definitely better than a plastic dish.
5	1378425600	This is my third fountain in 20 years. I started with a Petmate plastic one and although it worked great, it is made of plastic. Plastic gets grimy (algae) quickly and who knows what chemicals leak out of it and consumed by our pets because it is plastic (BPA/BPE and who know what else). The second one I got was ceramic. It worked great and I had no problems with it. However, one day a vase fell off my kitchen counter and landed on it and it the fountain broke in pieces leaving me with a flood on my floor. This led me to buy this steel one and it is awesome! It is made well, easy to put together and set up, cleans easy, is fairly quiet, works well and my cats love it. It is also the perfect size. The ceramic one I had (which I bought through Amazon, black ceramic) was way too big and was heavy and of course heavier when filled with water. This steel one is so much lighter without being cheap. The motor is still plastic however (all of them are to my knowledge) so they do need to be cleaned. I use a bowl filled with vinegar (NOT bleach) and run the fountain motor in it. I then dump out the vinegar when I think the motor is clean and run clean water through it. I will then dump that water out and run it through clean water again to make sure all the vinegar is out of it. I am very happy with this product and wish I had bought it 20 years ago. This fountain may be more than the plastic ones but overall, this is a better value. You will get tired of seeing the green/red sludge which will make your cat sick in your plastic fountain and will end up buying a ceramic or steel one anyway. Happy kitties :-)
5	1378425600	I really like this water bowl.  We used to have a Drinkwell and it was very difficult to take apart and clean...not to mention the hard plastic never seemed to get clean enough once we had had it for a while.  This fountain is MUCH easier to take apart, clean and put back together.  I also like the stainless steel, it seems to get cleaner easier than the hard plastic versions.  The one thing I liked better on the Drinkwell (and my cats liked better too) is the water flows free from the spout, unlike this fountain where it just runs down the top.  In other words, my cats like to drink water from the sink and the Drinkwell water flows more like that type of spout.  This one works fine though and it is worth it to me to be able to clean it so much easier.  I have now had it for 2 years with no problems.
3	1378339200	I haven't read other reviews, but I'm sure I'm not the first to say that my pets wouldn't use this.  They were afraid of it.  However, it was quiet, the water stayed cool, and it was made of good materials.  Unfortunately, it just cannot be used for its intended purpose.
5	1378252800	I liked the looks of this so much, that I ended up buying it twice without realizing it.  My cats really like it.  I have used almost all of the fountains for cats made up until this one.  This one is the easiest I've found to keep clean. I put it on the bathroom counter for the cats to use as they all seem to think that the bathroom faucet is the only way to get water.  It worked but was noisy on the hard counter.  I solved that by putting a folded bath towel under it. Cool clean water and even if the power went out, the cats could still get to the water in the bowl.  Filters are easy to change also.
5	1378252800	I bought this fountain for my cats because of what I have read about cats not being good water drinkers and all the medical problems that can come along with that. They love this fountain! They drink out of it all of the time. The very first day I inspected the litter box after having this fountain and the amount they drank had doubled! Another great thing about this fountain is that it is very modern and trendy looking, it also has a soothing sound. I have had the fountain for a month now, and no problems so far, but I clean it weekly and constantly put fresh water in it, as you do have to keep the water level high enough for it to work properly to keep circulating the water. I would recommend this item as it's a good way to encourage your cats to drink more "fresh" water to keep them hydrated and healthy.
2	1378252800	Somewhat attractive, my cats loved it. However, as other reviewers noted it is loud and sensitive to water level. It stopped working within the week, and I am returning for replacement. It is unclear if this is an occasional failure or a poor product quality.
5	1378166400	Our three cats love this fountain, and stainless steel is so much easier to keep clean!  Very simple design, and easy to clean.Other reviewers say the pump stops working after a few months, but guys you have to clean out the pump!  Unlike other pumps, the impeller is not physically attached to the pump.  It's spun and held by a magnet.  If any hair/muck gets in there, it'll stop spinning.  Just pop out the impeller and run it under the faucet, and voila you're working again.
1	1378166400	Very disappointed with this fountain. The problem is that the water doesn't stay clean. I use filtered water to begin with but after only 2 days the water starts to get mirky. The filter is terrible and does not filter out anything. After 5 days the water is cloudy and slimy. I might understand this if my cats even drank from it...neither of them would even try it. So for some reason the water was getting dirty on it's own. I cleaned this fountain and refilled it 4 times before giving up since my cats refused to drink from it. I'd hate to think how dirty the water would get if the fountain was actually being used. I'll be switching back to the harder-to-clean &#34;other&#34; pet fountain brand.
4	1378080000	I only have to replace the filters every 3 months or so. Still works 6-7 months after I purchased it. I bought it mainly for the cat to encourage her to drink more. She loves it. And of course the dog has to use it too if the cat is using it.Seriously though, the cat will sit there for 5 minutes drinking water out of the waterfall. I highly recommend this. Can be put right in the dishwasher (minus the pump portion) and it comes out spotless every time.Only complaint is it has to be filled every day or every other day... but i think that is because both the animals drink a lot :)
3	1377907200	Unlike a few others who posted here, the unit that I received is very quiet. You can barely hear it running unless you're really listening for it. I'm not sure that my cat is going to use it. So far, he looks at it with curiosity, but seems to prefer the sink. Also, the small pump and plastic housing that holds it seems cheap. I don't know how long that will last. The stainless bowls (top and bottom) are fine, and will probably last forever, but without the pump, they wouldn't be any better than any other water dish. Overall, kind of expensive for what it is.
5	1377907200	I have had no problems with this drinking fountain, it is quiet and my cats really like drinking from it.
5	1377820800	no slimy water any longer with this ...have used glass, plastic ceramic non were as good as this one..I love it
4	1377820800	I love it but my Havanese not so much, one seems to be afraid of it. Funny to watch but I still have to keep a water bowl out.
4	1377734400	Take care - I forgot the electrical connections in Australia are different; so I ahd to go and buy another small pump for it.  The cat took to it within a day!  A bit fiddly to clean and I suspect the filter isn't necessary....
1	1377734400	I am having to make a claim for my floor as either the water went over the back or something?  Filled up a tray and then  soaked the laminate floor in one week..  If I were not so old and blind I may have noticed tray was full but since I only empty and scrub once a week .. What a disaster..  Great for cement or maybe tile floors
5	1377648000	I have an 8 year old cat that I brought to the States with me from Morocco, North Africa.  He was born inside and never lived outside, but for some strange reason he would not drink from a bowl nor any other standing water source. I've had several cats before him and none of them took issue with drinking from a bowl.Before purchasing this pet fountain I searched Amazon and read lots of reviews. I've owned the fountain for nearly a month now and I am thrilled with it. Many other reviewers mentioned problems with their brand of pet fountain - motors dieing, noisy, spilling water, slimy films, pink mold, and even cats getting pimple-like sores around their mouths and chins from a reaction to PLASTIC water fountains. I have had none of this.I chose the Pioneer Raindrop fountain because it is stainless steel - no plastic toxins, and because reviewers said it was quiet. The price was much better than many fountains that had been given less positive reviews than the Raindrop.I wasn't sure that my cat would drink from it since it is not shaped like a faucet, but he does!  I think he even may drink more water now that he has access to fresh, circulating water 24/7.Other reviewers that had problems with their fountains were told to keep the bowl filled with clean, fresh water so that the motor doesn't break because the fluid level is too low so, each day I add a bit of water. I also do not use tap water. This keeps my fountain from getting clogged with lime, calcium and other gunk that is in tap water, and it is healthier for kitty. As well, I decided not to put the fountain on the floor where it could collect dust, hair and other things that would foul the motor and the water. Cleaning the unit was SO SIMPLE and easy. Next week I will replace the first filter (4 weeks of use, only one cat).This pet fountain is such a great find for us. No more does my cat have to get up on the sink and beg for the faucet to be turned on. No more do I have to continually wipe the sink because his little paws have been on it.
1	1377561600	I purchased this just over a month ago and the motor already died. Can't return it now, what a piece of junk.
3	1377561600	Clean and easy to care, but scared the living daylights out of our cat.  Took her two weeks to get used to drinking out of fountain.
2	1377561600	The fountain looks cool. It does make some noise and my cats won't use it. I can't return it because the box was thrown out.
3	1377475200	This item may be going back. I bought this for my dog as he was not drinking enough water even though I gave him fresh water twice a day. I thought he would like it. He was scared in the begining but got used to it. However, after about a couple weeks of using it, it started to produce foam. I washed it, rinsed the filter and all and it was alright for awhile and it starte foaming all over again. I think I am going to send this back as it keeps foaming and I only had for less than a month.
5	1377388800	I wanted a filtered water system for my cats, but they're Exotic Shorthairs (think, shorthaired Persians), and with their squished faces they don't like drinking from a faucet because it would go up their little noses. Once I saw this pet fountain, with a large pool of water for them to sip from, I had to try it. It's quiet, as long it is filled, once the water starts to get low the motor is more audible. The water remains clean, fresh and cool. It's also easy to clean and reassemble. Definitely worth the buy, a great price, especially if you own squish-faced breeds.
5	1377388800	Both cats are using this.  Very easy to clean.  I change the filters every 3 weeks and clean the fountain twice a week.  One of my cats likes to stick his paws in the water!
5	1377302400	Great product, my cats are very spoiled and wont drink out of a dirty water dish so I was having to clean it everyday. After a while I bought a plastic filtered dish and was having to clean the slime off the side every 4 days or so. Now with this, I have to do neither of those things. Yay
4	1377302400	The ease of cleaning is unbelievable compared to the fountain I had before.  One of my cats went right to the fountain, the other is not so sure of it at the present.  Would recommend this item.
4	1377216000	I want to love this fountain. Actually, I do love it, but I want my cat to love it too.I bought this fountain 4 months ago. It has a really sleek, attractive design, and is super-easy to clean. Sadly, my cat does not appreciate these features as much as I do. When I first set it up, he would not go anywhere near it. It made a humming/vibrating noise that annoyed me and seemed to actually scare him. I've since found how to minimize the noise -- you have to fit all the pieces together *exactly*. But it turns out the noise wasn't the entire problem.Even after resolving the noise issue, my cat still wouldn't go near it, much less drink out of it. Another reviewer here suggested removing the top part of the fountain (the sloping stream part) -- in desperation, I tried that, and it worked! It took a couple of days, but with the top part off, my cat finally approached and investigated, then started drinking from it, and has been ever since. I recently tried putting the top part back on, thinking he might accept it now since he's a fan of the fountain without the lid. Nope. He will not drink from it with the lid on, period.As another reviewer said, I think the problem might be that the &#34;pool&#34; part is narrower than the breadth of a cat's whiskers. That makes sense to me, and is the only explanation I can think of, since I have managed to mostly eliminate the annoying vibration sounds.In any case, 4 stars because it's easy to clean, the cat likes it (sans lid), and it's a compact, attractive design. It's much less attractive without the lid on though. Maybe my cat is just weird, but that's the only way he'll drink from it, so lidless we are. If you have a cat who will enjoy this *with* the lid on, it's a winner for sure.I suspect small dogs wouldn't have the same issues with the lid, and would happily drink from it. It really is a pretty and cleverly designed fountain, and maintenance is a breeze. It also fits nicely into my kitchen, not just stylistically but also size-wise -- it's low to the ground and takes up minimal space. My cat really enjoys it without the lid, but I gave 4 stars instead of 5 because *I* would enjoy it more with the lid. It also still makes a humming noise sometimes, but adjusting the position of the cord and/or bowl makes it stop. I keep a regular stainless steel bowl of fresh water nearby as an alternate, just in case.
5	1377216000	I have a cat with a chronic disease and its very hard to keep him hydrated.  Since he prefers running water, a fountain was a must.  Only one cat, so small fountain needed (larger ones available).  When setting up, I had installed the pump in the wrong position and a simple call to Pioneer customer service fixed it in 2 minutes. FANTASTIC customer service!!  Quieter than ever imagined (nearly totally silent) and a beautiful looking drinking fountain for my cat.  Very handsome appliance in my kitchen, looks sophisticated.  My cat took to it immediately and now even sleeps next to it.
3	1377216000	it looks cute since i have the cat's eating area in a visible region. many people have commented on how nice it looks. very easy to setup. not noisy. impressed with how well the sucking caps work. i clean it once a week as the water becomes stale by then. i also top off once in between. our kitten seems to like it but he is still fascinated by the faucet and other sources.
5	1377216000	We previously had a different fountain that took forever to clean and our one cat figured out how to knock the lid off of it.  We played that game of putting the lid back on all day!  This fountain takes minutes to clean, set up is simple, it's quiet... perfect!
4	1377216000	I wasn't sure if my new cat would like this but I always read that cat love running water. My old cat who passed away, had a fountain pond at my parent's house and she loved it.My cat wasn't too sure about it at first, but as time went by she opened up to it, I'm guessing because it was the only place to drink water haha. She never drinks from the little waterfall though. I guess it's not her thing, she's a picky cat I adopted from the shelter. Well, I like the idea of running water and with a filter too. Because if you just feed your pet with water in a bowl, all kinds of dust and things fall it in and there is no circulation.Buy it!
4	1377129600	Original review:  The motor only worked for 2 months.  The cat definitely enjoyed it while it lasted (especially when I threw a few ice cubes in the bowl), but it's definitely not worth more than 5 bucks if it only lasts 2 months.  Also, I ended up cleaning it every other day because the water and the sides of the bowl would become extremely slimy from the filter, and the cat wouldn't drink.  Definitely don't waste your money on this product, and I wouldn't trust anything else from Pioneer.8/27 edit:  I upgraded from 1 to 4 stars, because someone from Pioneer's customer care contacted me to resolve the issue (see the comments on this post).  And the fountain works again, with the added monthly step of disassembling and cleaning the motor.  I'll give another report in a couple of months if the pump continues to act up.Take-away:  if you don't want to put the work into this product, just stick with a standard water bowl.  Also, Pioneer has an attentive customer service team!
1	1377043200	So wanted to keep this attractively designed pet fountain but it was let down by the cheap pump it came with. It was so noisy as to be unbearable. Just had to return it.
4	1377043200	I love this.  But, my 22 year old cat doesn't seem to want to drink from it.  But, the dog sure likes it.  Stainless steel looks nice in the kitchen.
4	1377043200	Originally we got this to replace a hard to clean fountain that was on the edge of not working. Got it and set it up much to the delight of our two cats whom both love their running water. Sadly after a few month the pump seemed to have gone out and not wanting to deal with it we switched it out for a bowl of water...well easy to clean it wasn't ideal and the little Kitty just played in it making a huge mess.So on a whim we got this one back out and cleaned it up and on the suggestion of my mother tried cleaning the pump. With a few moments of Google and reviews on here we found how to fully take the pump apart and cleaned out all the cat fur that was jamming it up. Thing works like a charm now supplying clean water and less fuss the a boring bowl of water much to our cats delight.So moral, when the pump seems to stop working disassemble and clean the darn thing for happy cats and less mess then a bowl of water....
1	1376870400	I purchased the Pioneer Raindrop fountain BECAUSE of the good reviews.  Indeed, it does look well made, however, I was surprised with how ill designed it is.  Water leaks out the back where the cord comes through simply because the hole is below the rim line where one would normally fill the water up to.  Secondly, the biggest disappointment was the fact that the lovely water "slide" which meets the rim before falling into the dish splashes out.  And that has nothing to do with how high you fill the bowl.  It splashes out because the rim at that area is too shallow so that when the water tumbles down, drips go out.Such simple flaws that would have been so easy to remedy in the design dept. at Pioneer: the cord hole could have been made to come out ABOVE the rim, and a small lip around the area where the water slide meets the rim could have protected splash-outs.So, after two mornings of waking up to pools around the bowl, it's going back.Bottom line: DON'T BUY.
5	1376870400	I got this fountain to replace the drinkwell one. I was looking for something that was easier to clean and more aesthetically pleasing. This fountain is all that and more! Easier to assemble and clean, looks great and runs quietly. Very happy with my purchase and my cat seems to like it more as well.
1	1376784000	Product stopped working after only 8 months. Not worth the money at all. We took great care of it; changed the filters every month and cleaned regularly. I would not recommend purchasing this item.
2	1376697600	Not safe for puppy, it hooks up to electricity and I didn't trust puppy with it, so maybe when she's older
5	1376697600	Worked out of the box, no need to read directions really. It's very simple and intuitive. I've had it run low or empty many times, if this happens just unplug it, fill with water, then turn on again (for some reason if you just fill an empty bowl with water while the pump is on, it doesn't bubble).Thing runs like a champ
5	1376524800	It's pretty simple to clean. I love the way it looks. The cats love it! The only time you can hear it is if there isn't enough water. I just wish I had a maid so that I would never have to clean anything. Great product.
5	1376524800	This is a functional and practical design. Easy to clean and the cat loves it. Read allot of reviews and pondered quite a while before deciding on this one.
5	1376438400	I love this water fountain!  My cats love it too because of the bubbler feature which they drink from that rather than the bowl itself.  It's easy to clean too and filter replacement is so simple!
5	1376352000	Quite, my cats love it and I no longer have a water mess all over the floor.  Having three cats who love  water I was worried about them emptying it but they just watch the water and drink.  No more shaking the bowl.
3	1376352000	This is ok a bit noisy but wish the water came up a bit more. The nice thing is that it keeps the water cold also
3	1376352000	The product itself was as described. Easy to assemble-relatively quiet-nice stainless steel bowl. But....after a few days-even after changing the water-the bowl became slimy. When I dismantled it to give it a thorough cleaning, the filter was so slippery with film that I had to discard it. Ew.  My two cats looked at it for 2 weeks, looked at each other - and walked away never so much as giving it one lick. I'm not sure if the product is below standard, or mine are just too high!!! Anyway, I gave it a shot but ultimately decided against keeping it around.
4	1376352000	The flow of water could be a little better, but overall this is a nice filter and reasonably priced.  Cats have warmed up to it.
1	1376265600	Was nice while it lasted, easy to clean. Worked well for 3 months then the pump died. Now it's just a stainless steel bowl.
5	1376265600	My cats love this, My friend has three cats and she bought this and bragged so much I had to get one myself. so convenient and easy to clean. Love the stainless steel as it matches my appliances. It is worth every cent.
2	1376179200	This is a nice design, a big attraction for me, the cats loved it.  It is not difficult thing to keep clean however, the motor has a very short life span, dead after 5 months.  so regardless of how pretty, it useless without a working motor.
5	1376179200	Before I found this fountain, all I had found were made of plastic (can harbor bacteria, hard to clean), and ceramic (might break).  This fountain solves both these problems, is easy to clean, quiet, efficient.  It took a few days, but my animals have adjusted to it and love it.  Why a fountain?  It encourages pets, especially cats, to drink more.  That can be vital to their health.
2	1376179200	the per fountain worked fine for 4 weeks but then the motor stopped working. I even changed the filter at 31/2 weeks. I am hoping they will replace this motor and it will last at least 3 years.
5	1376092800	My cat is scared of his own shadow so this thing took about 3 days for him to get used to it. I tried leaving it unplugged, plugged in, different locations, etc. He would just act curious but wouldn't get close to it. I decided to leave it plugged in and in the same location as his old bowl. A couple times a day I would put some of the water on my finger and let him lick it off(he was thirsty!), every time I'd put more water on my finger I would make him get a little closer to the fountain. I'd be able to get him to be licking water off of my finger while it was pretty much in the fountain but as soon I remove it he would run away. I gave up and started the tough love. I relied on his animal/survival instincts, he knew where the water source was and I knew he would eventually give in to his thirst and I refused him water from anywhere else. It was hard to do but it worked! I don't know when it happened but he braved it out and now I can't keep the thing full! He loves it!
3	1376092800	Just got this and my male cat (the one that needs to drink more because of his urinary problems) is hogging it! He likes drinking from the top spout as well as the bottom dish. Assembly was easy (don't turn the pump on before you put water inside, it will kill the pump!) and it doesn't have that many parts so it looks fairly easy to clean (unlike the drinkwell fountain I had which was a huge pain to clean! Because of the cleaning I only use that one now when I am away a few days because it has a big tank). It makes a little humming noise, which is ok with me. 5 stars because my cat actually drinks a lot more!!Update: the "humming sound" comes from the suction cups of the pump housing, if you press them down real good the sound is gone:-) and I just cleaned it: EASY!Update after one week I am returning the fountain...Cats loved it, I liked it. quiet, easy to clean but very hard to maintain water level without it overflowing (the area where it comes down from the bubbler and hits the edge/rim), it drips from the rim on my wooden floor...putting only a little bit less water into it results in noise and less flow...
2	1376092800	The stainless water bowl is great but the pump is very noisy and it scared my Yorkies who would not drink out of it.  They wouldn't even walk close to it.  I returned it.  Amazon service is great and I shop there all the time.
3	1376092800	I had great hopes for this fountain but it's just OK.  Sometimes it is very loud, which requires you to jiggle around the pump until it is right.  I thought that my cats would drink out of the waterfall part but they won't do that.  Minerals cling to the stainless steel and won't come completely off, even with scrubbing.
4	1376006400	Easy to clean and my cats love it. It makes a nice water fountain sound. I also like that it is stainless steel and not plastic.
5	1376006400	I ended up getting two of these, one for upstairs and one for downstairs. My cats love it. And I've had a lot of fountains. Easy to clean, easy for more than cat to drink at the same time.
5	1376006400	very nice, my cats love it and I would recommend it.  What is not so positve the replacement filter are pricey replacing them every 4-weeks...
5	1376006400	My cat loves this fountain.  For almost 6 years she will only drink from the running faucet.  I've tried at least 6 different water fountains and she had no interest in any of them until this one.  It is very quiet unless you let the water get low (but you shouldn't if you are properly changing and filling the water as you should).  This unit is very easy to clean and looks sleek.  Love it!
5	1376006400	It is a quality product and at a nice price.  My cat does use it, so I am happy :p
4	1376006400	First was hoping that we could use it outside for our cats. However even though it is stainless, the instructions said it was for indoor use only . As such it works fine. However seems to need water daily to prevent the pump from making noise..
5	1375920000	My cats were two of the most finicky cats about water.  One would ONLY drink from a running tap - very wasteful.  And the other would only drink out of my hand!!!  I've tried other water fountains and they have finally come up with one that my cats actually LIKE to drink out of.  The pump noise is almost inaudible.  They can drink from the bubbler or the pool of water or water running into the pool.  I was skeptical that this would work, but it has and it's solved my problems.  One bad thing is they tell you the importance of keeping the fountain regularly cleaned, and the motor and the filter changed but give you NO idea about how frequently.  Also, haven't tried to find replacement filters yet, so we'll see how that goes... stay tuned.
4	1375920000	Keep the water fresh and clear..I love this products, and my cat too.But i did not change the filter yet, only washed it.
5	1375747200	Can't beat stainless.  Nice quality item.  It was packaged exceptionally well.  I was most impressed.  One cat took to it immediately (my sink drinker) - it's taken time for the 2nd cat to start using it -- my scaredy cat has still not figured it out.  I think the stainless takes some getting used to.  But it sure has gotten 2 of my 3 cats to drink a lot more water - which is a good thing.  No complaints.  Working perfectly.
5	1375747200	This fountain is amazing.  Stays clean, keeps the cats entertained and drinking water!  Does not need to be filled up too often, cleans really easily.
5	1375747200	I have three cats who all prefer to drink from moving water.  All three absolutely love this product!  I clean it each day and put fresh water in it, and my black cat has an absolute fit that I am messing with his &#34;burble&#34;.  The design is superior and great quality, and looks quite nice in our kitchen.  Highly recommended.
5	1375747200	I am absolutely delighted with this fountain.  Found the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel on sale at Amazon for $33.00 what a bargain. It was very easy to assemble and also sturdy, not to mention quiet. As one person reported no louder than an aquarium pump. I have 4 cats drinking from it and if the water gets low it is somewhat louder.  I just add a little filtered water from my fridge daily to keep it full. No big deal. I am cleaning it every 3-4 days and that seems to be about right.  By then it is starting to get slimy.  I have had other fountains and they all get slimy.  With 4 cats using it that can't be helped.  Just think of 4 people slobbering in one large bowl of water.  Also got extra filters that I change every 2 weeks.  They are important to filter out the hair and any other debris. It's super eash to take apart and cleans up easily with a little soap and water.  All my cats seem to enjoy it.  Only wish I'd gotten the larger size since I have so many cats.  Definitely a winner!
4	1375660800	I think this is a pretty cool pet water fountain.  I had a plastic one that was very finicky and also got dirty fast and was tough to clean, so I picked this one based on the reviews.  I found it easy to put together and easy to fill.  My cats were a little nervous at first when approaching it, but now they both drink from it no problem.  I haven't experienced any water splashing at all from the fountain.  It's bright, shiny, attractive, and small.  Sure, it's not the quietest fountain in the world, but come on.. it's going to make a LITTLE noise.  It doesn't bother me and I barely notice it.  I would definitely recommend this fountain.
5	1375660800	Decided to buy stainless steel drinking fountain for my 2 cats. previously had plastic fountain which was hard to clean. pleased so far.
5	1375574400	My furry little girl pretty much took to this thing as soon as I filled it full of water and plugged it in look for a another review from a lady her review really sold me on this I was on the fence because my hairy child will almost always reject anything I have went out and bought for her but she took right to it she loves it I will make one suggestion if your hairy child gets sick on your tap water like mine use bottled water I use the sams choice from good ole wal-mart it's pretty much the cheapest I can find my cat drank a lot more water so keep an eye on this fountain because if the water gets to low it stops working I say buy this
5	1375574400	I have bought several pet fountains, paying as much as $99, and have not been impressed with any of them.  This one meets all of my expectations and more.  I'm happy, and my Lucy is happy!
2	1375488000	I bought 2 of these bowls and all three of my cats are afraid of them. The pump is very noisy. It doesn't matter how fresh the water is if the cats won't get near the thing.
1	1375488000	I bought this and had it for only a month and it just stopped working! I unplugged it and when i plugged it back in it no longer worked!
4	1375401600	It's a great fountain, although they should make it without filters or a filter that lasts, find that part a real pain.
5	1375315200	Very satisfied with this fountain - good price, fast delivery! At first my cat was too nervous to try it, but once he did, he loved it! It is quiet & was easy to assemble. I recommend this!
5	1375315200	I had a plastic drinking fountain before this and I was fed up with it because it got so gross so frequently and it was terribly hard to clean. This fountain is awesome! The cats love it, it's easy to clean, quiet, and the refill filters are cheap!
5	1375315200	The water is drawn into a pump through a filter at the bottom of the unit and bubbles up through an opening at the top.  Then it flows down a channel and finally spills back into the bottom basin.  It is powered by a low voltage transformer so safety is not a concern.  The build quality is quite good.  You can adjust the force of the pump but for my guys, the next to lowest setting is fine.  The filter works well and my cats seem to really enjoy drinking from this.  It is easy to take apart to clean and to reassemble.  The cleaning process is also quick and easy and the fiilters are inexpensive and have a good lifespan.  The fountain does make a bit of noise but to me it is pleasant, the sound of a babbling brook, softly muted.
4	1375228800	Great aesthetic fountain for kitties - we have two and both really enjoy this fountain (they drink out of the bubble a the top and the well at the bottom).  We &#34;upgraded&#34; to this fountain from a plastic pet fountain that had a full waterfall; we were nervous that our kitties wouldn't like this bubble & slide version, but they seem to prefer it to the old fountain version.  As with all kitty fountains, washing / cleaning can be cumbersome and the metalic version is no different.  This fountain is a tad bit louder than our plastic version, but it's come to be a &#34;warning&#34; that our kitties have drank the water level low and we need to refill.  Overall, we are very happy that our kitties like this water fountain and it does have great aesthetic qualities (sleek from the metal design and low to the ground) and wouldn't hestiate to recommend it for purchase.
5	1375228800	This fountain bowl produces a very gentle water stream which might not be vigorous enough for  some younger more active cats.  However, my older feline enjoys it and it works extremely well.  It was very easy to set up and get going.  While I haven't had to change the filter yet, I don't anticipate any problems with that activity.  Also, it is very quiet, making a soothing sound and does not splash walls or floors.  Very nice product.  Highly recommended.
5	1375142400	I love that this bowl is easier to clean than my last automatic fountain. The curvy lines and lack of straight edges make it so that it needs to be cleaned less- there are less places for stuff to grow in it when you aren't looking! My cat would maybe prefer a larger collecting pond on top, but he drinks out of this one as well as his last one!
5	1375056000	My cats love this fountain! Stainless is great and easy to clean making water changes a breeze. So quiet too. My old plastic fountain vibrated and buzzed, and parts were hard to keep clean and reassemble. Definately a winner!
5	1375056000	Although my cats were suspicious of it at first, they now drink out of it regularly.  I wash most of it in the dishwasher.  It comes apart and goes back together easily.  I do have to add water every day or two.  Great product for the price!
5	1374969600	Easy to clean and maintain...ceramic filter cartridge makes keeping the water clean.  Our cats like this water source as well as their owners.
5	1374969600	I have had this bowl for about 5 months now and......I love this water bowl. So easy to clean!!!  My cats love drinking the water out of it and sometimes they just sit and stare at the water coming out of the top.....so not only is it a water feeder it is a toy too.....lol.
2	1374969600	This was the best for the price & my cats love it. Since it is stainless steel, it keeps the water cold. It is also easy to clean.UPDATE: When I was cleaning with dish washing liquid & paper towel, some of the finish started wearing off! This is not stainless steel but just a chrome finish. Very disappointed.
3	1374883200	This is a good-looking cat fountain, as these things go (a black power cord is going to look ugly anywhere), and for the first 3 months we had no problems (although my cats will only drink out of the "bowl" area, destroying my fantasies of them tilting their heads to lap the spout of water). Then several days ago, the pump just stopped working. Luckily another amazon reviewer has been so kind as to point out the YouTube link on how to clean the pump ([...] google "pioneer pet fountain pump maintenance"). We opened up the pump and rinsed it out, despite their being no visible debris whatsoever, and lo and behold, it worked again. That said, the fact that the manufacturer is anticipating these kinds of problems to the point of creating a YouTube video about it doesn't necessarily say something good; plus, to be honest, I'm not going to be surprised at all if this becomes a recurring annoyance in our household. Amazon was, however, awesome about customer service as usual; before I found the YouTube video, they were willing to let me return the fountain for a refund even though the return window had expired.
5	1374796800	I would highly recommend this fountain to any pet owner. It was so easy to put together thus making it easy to clean. It is quiet and I haven't noticed any splashing. The only thing I would ward against is the metal tag on my cats' collars clink against the bowl; this took them some getting used to but they got over it quickly.
5	1374710400	Was able to completely disassemble including the pump motor. We had set the motor to the wrong speed... It has work marvelously since. love the design on the power cord.
3	1374710400	I bought this for my one cat who loves running water...faucets especially.  She took to it and was using it and stopped pestering us to turn on the sink faucet all the time.  After 3 months the motor just quit working.  I cleaned the bowl and whole unit every week, added fresh water daily and kept the thing clean...had to because she WONT drink if any floats are in it!  Very disappointed it broke so easy with ONE CAT usage.  Would be a great product if it did not break.After I wrote this review I plugged the item in again and forgot about it and left the house, when I came home the fountain was working again.  Not sure how/why it works now but I'm glad it does. I used the same outlet, it's not one that has to be reset. So at this point the item is working but uncertain for how long.
5	1374624000	I originally bought the ceramic one. I liked it so much that I bought the stainless one as it is more durable. I was hesitant as other reviews claim it is louder. I have not experienced that. I like the stainless as it is more durable and easier to clean. Both, my dog and cat love it.
5	1374624000	We had a plastic pet fountain that we loved... until it cracked.  We replaced it with this stainless steel fountain, and are very happy with it... as our cats are.  It seems to stay clean longer, and is easier to clean when the time comes.  While it is not as heavy gauge as it could be, I don't anticipate any problems with the outer steel.  The inside parts are plastic, and may yet fail, but six months in it continues to work well.
5	1374624000	This fountain looks great.  It's easy to clean.  But the best part is it makes my cat want to drink out of it.  Cats love that running water.
2	1374624000	Had the fountain plugged in for not even two weeks before the motor broke.  My cats loved it but a new pump is more expensive than the whole set.
5	1374537600	He loves running water - this is a hit. His former water cooler style waterer would develop serious bacteria no matter how much I cleaned it (Eww). This one not doesn't and I clean it once a week white a quick scrub and run through with white vinegar and water.
5	1374537600	Two of them like to drink from the fountain section & the other drinks from the still section. It is a little difficult to clean but the cats seem to be drinking more water now.
3	1374451200	i bought this because i thought it would make it easier on our catsitter.  but  the filtering system is not adequate--it required cleaning everyday.  unplug, dismantle, wash, reassemble, etc.  it was easier to just empty & clean & leave off the filtering stuff.  my cats are happy with it this way, and that's what counts.
4	1374451200	I bought the stainless steel version of fountain cause I believe it is more hygienic for pets. I had plastic fountain for a few years but I had to clean it weekly to prevent algae growth. This fountain is OK but still need to be cleaned weekly. Cats are OK with it but prefer to drink from the bucket. This fountain is a bit noisy especially when water level drops.
4	1374364800	I got this for my cat since she was always wanting water from the sink.  I work so I thought this would be better for her rather than waiting for me to let her drink from the sink.  She was refusing her water bowl.  Sometimes it makes noise and sometimes it doesn't.  I believe it has to do with how the tube from motor assembly is attached to the lid.  This item is also bigger than it seems online.
2	1374364800	This fountain was wonderful for the first month or so that I had it, only needing some filter and motor maintenance now and then (nothing you can't find how to do yourself via the internet, for my particular issues), but here I am several months in and the entire product has begun to rust rather heavily. The motor also has stopped working despite my careful maintenance, and I'm no longer comfortable using this for my pets.Currently looking for other, more durable, more long-term solutions, and disappointed at having paid close to $70 at the time for something that lasted not even a full year.
5	1374278400	This works very well with three cats.  I find I need to clean it weeky but it is very easy to clean
4	1374192000	Since I purchased this fountain my cats have been drinking ore water than ever.  Very streamlined design and the quietest cat fountain we have owned yet. I was worried about it being too small for 2 cats but they seems to make it work.
5	1374192000	It was a worthwhile purchase, and I do not regret buying it. I would recommend this product for other people.
1	1374192000	pump, which is very small lasted a week - nice stainless steel container with a broken pump for over 40 dollars lol
2	1374105600	My two cats. minnie and katie, would not like the pioneer pet stainless steel fountain raindrop design.  Both cats just would not keep the stainless steel fountain.  Sorry.
5	1374019200	I have an original Drinkwell fountain, and it was enough to make me swear off pet fountains altogether.  I honestly wondered if it was purposely designed for prisoners of war to clean, so they would talk due to the extreme torture.  When my cat was diagnosed with kidney issues, I decided to try again with this model.Cleaning: It is simple, smartly designed, and almost mindless to clean.  The cord gets in the way a little, but short of that, a few swipes with a sponge, and you're done.  It also assembles with little effort, and without feeling like somewhere a bitter fountain engineer is getting revenge on you.Reception: My cat took to it quickly enough.  She isn't interested in the bubbling top, but seems to like the swirling water the motion creates, giving her fewer instances of wet nose.  I only see her very occasionally dipping a paw in to move the water, which is a huge departure from standing in the bowl.  She seems to drink more lustily than she did with her normal bowl.Design: It does look a bit like an Ikea bedpan, but I like the metal look over the plastic ones.  It makes almost no noise (again, in contrast to my old fountain).  The motor on lower settings is silent, with no vibrations sent to the floor.  The water, on lower settings, is enough to stir the water without gurgling noises.
5	1374019200	Have had the fountain for 8 months now. Honestly not that much trouble to clean the parts or replace filters. Like any other stainless steel item, it looks very nice when it's polished (but who does that all the time??).I was a little nervous about how the motor would sound, but it's not loud at all, and the bubbling water is very soothing. (Disclaimer: I keep mine on a carpeted floor...if you put it on tile or hard surface without a pad or mat, the sound may be amplified.)Only took my little dog a day or two to begin using it! He drinks from the reservoir side, not the fountain side -- but his water intake has definitely increased, so I'm very pleased.
1	1374019200	I already wrote about another one of these fountains from a different company and style.  Let's just say Nothing along these lines were satisfactory to the two spoiled rotten felines!  LOL.  Actually, I believe I solved the problem of drinking out of toilets.  I read somewhere on line that some cats do not like water dishes near the food.  These two eat only dry food, and the little girl likes to drink with her paws.  The boy just hates water that is old and not near the food.  Solution:  put bowl of water in the shower which is way away from food and another one in the kitchen way away from food.  They both drink water &#34;their way&#34; and all I have to do is move the one in the shower every time I want to use it.  Not bad and a heck of a lot easier than carrying a heavy full fountain to the bathroom or kitchen.  This  may help you too if you have a picky kitty.
5	1373846400	So, my wife kept asking about getting one from PetSmart, but I convinced her to pass on the plastic ones that were more expensive and let me look it up.  We have two very active cats, and plastic would not last long enough in an upright postition.  So I found this online, and ordered it.  Opened it up, washed it out, filled it up and turned it on, and they have been all over it.  Our girl cat was afraid of it at first, but now she enjoys drinking out of the top of the dish, where the fountain is.  Whenever I forget to turn it on in the morning they are quick to remind me. I'm surprised they took to this so quickly, and it has irrevocably changed our routine.  It sounds dumb, but the cats love it, and I can't complain about that.
5	1373846400	I really like this product.  It filters the water and keeps it circulating and fresh.  The stainless steel design is easy to clean as well.  I would definately recommend this product.....I just wish the auto-feeder I just purchased from another company was as good.  I am going to look to see if the SmartCat company makes an auto-feeder so i can try it out as well.
5	1373760000	Both cats took a little time to get use to it but now totally comfortable with it. I clean and change the water every 5 days and add ice cubes on real warm days. I love the fact that it's stainless steel, no PBA's or lead from ceramics/pottery glazes to worry about.
5	1373760000	Our Cat Loves to drink out of it, because there is a continual flow of water.It also due to being stainless steel stays cleaner , less likely that bacteriawill grow.Thank you for a great product.DH
5	1373760000	My cat seems to feel very happy, drinks now a lot of water directly from running top and we are very happy for her :)
4	1373760000	My two female cats really enjoy this stainless steel fountain. The continuously running water actually gets them to drink more, providing better hydration. I still have another plain bowl of water for the boys, as they distrust the fountain, but overall I am very happy.
4	1373673600	This is such a great product. Some people talk about emptying it, taking it apart and cleaning it every week. I haven't done so once in the month the cats have been using it. I just add 1-2 cups water each day, and the bowl stays clean, no slimy film or anything. The young cats especially like the bubbler feature. (I bought it because every time I went into the bathroom, one ran at top speed to jump up onto the sink to play in the running water.) The only reason I haven't given this 5 stars is because at times, especially in the beginning, I found the buzz/hum of the pump to be annoying. I even had to turn it off at night, as it disturbed my sleep. I repositioned the pump a little until I found the least noisy position, and now it is mostly fine. I'm sensitive to sound though, so any hum can be irritating to me. I wouldn't let this deter you from getting this for your kitties. I do believe they are drinking more water now, as evidenced by the number of times I am scooping clumps out of the litter box!
1	1373587200	A friend strongly recommended this and I was looking forward to receiving it and the pack of filters.  It arrived on time; I assembled it with its filter; added water and plugged it in.  My cats loved it, but it seemed noisy right away.  I figured I could live with it but in the 4-5 weeks I've had it the noise gets steadily worse.  And - the rate of water flow also steadily decreased.  I changed the filter twice with no improvement.I'd return it but the site said I am past the 'return date'.  Now it is unplugged but the cats still drink from it instead of their old bowlMy friend's is still working away quietly so maybe I just got a lemon.  I still want a  pet fountain so I'll start looking around again..  but probably not this manufacturer
5	1373587200	I've had a couple of continuous water fountains for my cats, and this one is definitely a favorite.  My cats are happy and drink plenty--so I'm happy too!
5	1373587200	This is a super fountain, it isn't messy or loud.  It's like a drinking fountain and a &#34;river&#34; and a pond all in one.  My 3 love it so much and they are sooo funnny playing with the fountain at the top where the water comes out.  The other day our power was out for a couple of hours and everyone of them took turns walking over and tapping the top of the fountain, looking under it and coming to me to say fix it mom!  Amazon brings you the very best price and free shipping on this.  It was by far the best deal on it and worth every penny!
1	1373587200	I first purchased the stainless steel model, but the motor burned out after about five months of use.  There is a minimum level you need to keep the water to keep the motor running properly, but this was never a problem for me, as I added a a little cold water several times a day.  When the motor stopped working on the stainless steel bowl, I purchased the ceramic bowl, hoping that the heavier bowl would keep my cats from being able to move the bowl and splash water on the floor.  I've had the ceramic bowl for nearly one year now, and for the past three days have not had the motor plugged in because I was out of town.  When I came home, filled up the bowl and plugged it in, nothing happened.  I took the whole thing apart and cleaned it, and still it wouldn't work.It's such a disappointment because my cats loved having the choice of drinking running water or still water.  But after two tries, I'm looking for a different kind of water bowl.
2	1373500800	This product stopped working the first week. It was cleaned daily and even flipped the filter a few times. The motor no longer made noise and water was not flowing through. Kept the bowl as it is bigger than our other ones and just filled it with water. Enough water for two small dogs during the summer heat.Recieved two stars because we are still able to use the bowl part.
5	1373500800	I would highly recommend this product.  My cats were always trying to drink from the running water so we decided to try this and they love it.
2	1373500800	I liked the Stainless Steel cleanliness factor but have been very unhappy with the motor quality. My first two lasted a few months but I have bought and returned three since February because  they either did not work upon receipt or didn't last a month. I have one to return now but do not want a replacement for this one. Will go back to my old brand.
3	1373500800	Works well but is very noisy.  Easy to clean and put back together.  Cats will drink more with running water.
5	1373500800	MY 2 CATS LOVE THIS WATER FOUNTAIN - AT FIRST THEY WERE SKETCHY ABOUT IT BUT ONCE I COAXED THEM NOW THEY DRINK FROM IT ALL THE TIME I EVEN HAVE 1 CAT THAT ACTUALLY STICKS HIS PAWS IN IT AND SCOOPS THE WATER UP TO DRINK.
4	1373414400	I have had a pet fountain for several years. It finally got so gross that I threw it out. I wanted a stainless steel one to match my kitchen, and so glad I chose this one. It is a little small and that is why I gave it a 4. Your pet will need to get used to it, but once they do, they won't want to drink out of a still bowl of water.
5	1373241600	This drinking fountain is 10 times better than the old plastic Catit Design one I had with the giant circle filter. It is extremely easy to clean and has less little parts to clean. There are just 5 main pieces&#8212;1 & 2 are the large steel pieces that rest on top of one another, 3 is the plastic casing that holds the 4 pump and 5 filter. The pump does have 5 small pieces to take apart and has some nooks and crannies I wish were filled in with plastic but a q-tip gets in there pretty well. It is very important to take the pump completely apart when cleaning. I learned this the hard way...After 8 months the pump stopped working but after calling Pioneer Pet, they walked me through taking apart the pump even more than I previously had known possible. It is important to make sure you remove the casing around the yellow fan and take the yellow fan out to clean. Then when you put the yellow fan back in make sure it spins before putting on the casing since it is a magnet. Pump worked like new again.
5	1373155200	I have tried several fountains for my cats (5 of them, crazy) and out of all the ones I have tried this fountain works the best! The clean-up is easy and you don't need an engineering degree to get it back together. My cats enjoy the fresh water and are healthier because of their increased consumption. I am actually planning to get another one.
3	1373068800	Having 5 animals, I thought this Pioneer Pet Fountain was the ticket..but since dogs lap furiously, and cats slowly I purchased two of these fountains.  Having another pet fountain that no longer worked, I purchased 2 of these. The cats missed a front pour system, and was what my cats wanted.  They were disappointed and cried for separate water bowls, which I gave them.  The three cats finally drink from the Pioneer Fountain, but I don't think they prefer it.  The dogs lap fast and will stop the pump if you are not ready to fill with a jug of water quickly.  Hair collects around the suction cups and seam of the pump so make sure you clean that regularly.  Other than that, the pump seems fine.  We all like stainless!
5	1373068800	I wanted my cats to have cooler, fresher water so they would be inclined to drink more water.  It is fairly quiet, but it is hard to get the cats used to the running fountain.  I am currently using both water bowls and the fountain, sometimes plugged in,sometimes not.
1	1372896000	It worked fine when assembled.  I have kept it clean.  It is completely dead and I have missed the window to return it.  I do not recommend this product at all.
5	1372896000	I was disappointed in this product after several months as it became very noisy.  After reading the instructions carefully (which I neglected to do initially)I realized the motor needs to be taken apart and cleaned thoroughly. There was a ton of 'gunk' and since removed and cleaned every month w/filter changes there's been no problem, it's quiet and runs wonderfully.
1	1372896000	Like several others the pump motor broke after 30 days. Mine lasted about 90, but for the amount they're charging you're better off just buying some cheap stainless steel water bowls from a local retailer.
5	1372723200	at first my yorkie looked at it like what is that?then she got closer took a drink and loves it.she doesn't drink any other water.it's must taste alot better because she'll walk by another bowl of water to get her drink from this bowl.she has me sold on it.
5	1372636800	We have three kitty cats.  after reading what others said about some cat's not using we were a little apprehensive but not to worry.  All three love it and it's reasonably easy to clean.
5	1372636800	Product as described. Fairly quiet on a plastic mat. Stainless steel doesn't get a slimy build-up like the plastic fountain we had.
5	1372550400	I do love it, however I didn&#34;t like that the pump didn't last long....and on the other hand I loved your very quick and satisfyingcustomer service in replacing it.
4	1372550400	Review Updated 7/12/13Our cat loved this water fountain and the stainless steel part is easy to clean. Unfortunately the pump died after about a month and a half of use. We cleaned out the fountain every day to avoid his fur, our hair and lint catching in the filter. The pump still died.Also for people looking to avoid plastic due to cat allergies, the pump and the filter enclosure are plastic so this might not necessarily be the best option. You can remove the pump and the filter, but to my knowledge there are no pure metal pumps.Also, if you don't clean out the pump and filter often mold and algae grow on the inside of it. The stainless steel part is pretty easy to clean, but the pump part itself is a little difficult as you have to take apart the plastic enclosure, take out the filter and take out the filter pump. There are also a lot of crevices for the algae to grow on so you have to clean them out with a Q-tip.I would have given this a higher rating if the pump didn't die so quickly, but sadly it didn't have a long enough life span to warrant the money but it lasted too long for us to return it within Amazon's return time frame.UPDATE - July 12, 2013I emailed Tina from Pioneer Pets regarding the broken pump and after explaining to her that we tried everything to get the pump working they promptly sent me a replacement pump for free. I contacted them last Friday and received the new pump yesterday. It's great when a company has timely and prompt customer service and actually cares about their customers. Thank you! My cat now longer paws at his water fountain wondering why it's not moving.
5	1372464000	It's easy to clean and since it's stainless steel it durable.Highly recommended, I couldn't find it in any retailer.
5	1372464000	Easy to clean and exceptionally quiet.  Our cats love this water flow system...and we have a lot of cats :)
5	1372464000	pets really like this - they all drink more which is very helpful to them. Easy cleanup and parts are available if pump dies
5	1372291200	I have 5 cats and two of them are very old.  I was not sure how they would take to the new 'water treatment'.  Fortunately after 2 days they all were drinking from their new bowl.  It is VERY quiet until the water gets low, which is fine with me, as it reminds me to fill it with the slight humming sound.I am really glad I made this purchase! I feel like I did something healthy for all my cats.
4	1372291200	Looks good and functional.  Quiet and low profile so it can be put just about anywhere for use by my pets.  Have had a number of different watering fountains.  This so far has been the easiest to clean and maintain.  Purchased two for my household and will purchase more as gifts for other family members who have pets.
5	1372204800	I have five happier cats since I purchased this. The fountain has encouraged them to drink more water, which was what I was hoping for, since my youngest cat had to be treated for a urinary blockage a few months ago. Thank God he survived. I definitely recommend this product.
3	1372204800	my cat loves drinking out of the sink and I thought this fountain would get him off counter tops but it didn't he was actual afraid of it at first an took a few sips but then just wasn't interested my cat likes drinking from a slow stream of water coming from above and this didn't fit the bill but I did find a fountain he does use the drinkwell platinum pet fountain this fountain falls in a gentle stream from above and he prefers that I gave the pioneer to my aunt she has 3 cats they were afraid of the fountain at first as well but they are using it so I guess it just depends on your cat but I will admit the pioneer stainless takes up less room than the drinkwell platinum and it looks better
5	1372118400	This water fountain is wonderful. Cat is happy...I'm happy. It is quiet, easy to clean, and just gurgles along. Not a single issue with it. The filters are easy to manage. I don't change them often. I use our filtered water which is very pure and goes for a long time without making slime. I especially like how easy it is to take apart and clean.
5	1372118400	I just got the fountain 15 minutes ago. It was a snap to set up for use. The directions are very simple and clear. I wasn't sure if my cat would use a fountain. She tends to be very cautious. But her curiosity led her to it and she took a drink. I'm happy!I chose the stainless steel fountain after reading concerns about plastic. This fountain looks good and is relatively quiet.
1	1372032000	Bought this product and used it religiously for my cat and my dog. Also bought 12 months worth of filters. Fountain worked great, but then after one month the motor started to get louder, then around 2 months the motor just died. Now I have 10 months worth of filters for no reason at all because the fountain is non-functional!! Horrible product. Do not recommend.
4	1371945600	Cat seems to like it although he still prefers begging for water out of the bathtub.  The nice feature about this fountain is that you can put it in the dishwasher. The filter area and pump need to be cleaned manually and can be a bit gross but that's just the way it goes.  The pump comes apart and has some small pieces but it allows you to do a deep clean which is nice.  I've had the plastic drinkwell brand before, I recommend this product over the plastic brands.  Those are really hard to keep clean.  Overall very satisfied.
5	1371945600	You'll see alot of back and forth on this in the reviews, but it's overall a pretty darn good product.  And the price can't be beat.One thing that many of the negative reviews seem to revolve around is insufficient cleaning.This is an open pool of water.  It gets bugs, cat hair, saliva, dust, and other household things in it.  It needs to be cleaned out regularly.Fortunately, their design is _very_ easy to clean.  Even taking apart the electric motor and cleaning it is much, much simpler than it sounds (mostly because you dont really take it apart, the motor is sealed, you just remove and clean the impeller/propeller).Based on my experience, with the necessary maintenance, this thing runs really well.  And I find my cat drinks much more water because of it.Things to watch out for:- Dump the water, take it apart, and clean it weekly.  This takes no more than 10 minutes.- Pioneer Pet has solid videos on how to clean the main unit, and how to take apart and clean the motor.  It's really much easier than you will expect.Pump Maintenance 101http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TYyTFv_u3Sw- I don't find that I need to take the motor apart and clean the impeller every week, it can be done once or twice a month, in my experience.- Change the filters monthly.  This is about a $3/month expense.  They may be good for longer, I'm not sure how to tell.- Use the cleanest water you can.  Bottled, purified, reverse-osmosis, soft, whatever you have available.  The cleaner the water, the longer the thing will go between cleanings.One thing to watch out for:  I had the motor stop working after about 2 months.  I was frustrated thinking it was not very high quality, etc.  Turns out that a cat hair had gotten down in and wound around the impeller.  Once I took it apart and wiped down the impeller, it worked like a charm.Lastly, and this has nothing to do with the product itself, but if you're getting one of these to try to get your cats to drink more water, placement is very important.  Put this in a high traffic area, where your cat hangs around near it, or passes by it many times a day.  That will hugely improve the likelihood of it being drank from often.EDIT To add two more notes:1. In my house, I find that I add a coffee-cup amount of water most days.  You don't have to, it'll go a few days before getting low enough that the water flow suffers, but I find it easy to just fill up a coffee cup with water and dump it in.  I live in the desert, so very low humidity, but also only have one cat.  YMMV.2. The top piece will occasionally rattle a little bit.  This is the only noise making part of the fountain.  The majority of the time, this is resolved just by tapping the top pieces, which moves it enough that it stops rattling.  I'll probably go get a small tube of food-safe silicon caulking and just put a couple tiny dabs on the lip where the lid sits on, to buffer the metal on metal contact.  In any case, the noise is usually very minor.
5	1371945600	The reason I got this was because I had the Drinkwell 360 and it was SUCH a pain to clean!  This is much easier, and still gives my cats the &#34;running&#34; water that they love.  I would post a pic of one of my cats staring and getting closer and closer, but I think you get the idea by this sentence. :)  I like it, it does a great job, and it's small.  It doesn't take up as much room as the other fountain.  Win.
5	1371859200	Our kitten loves drinking from it.  Our oldest cat prefers the sink.  But this helps on those days when we're not home to allow them fresh drinking water.  Our older cat will drink from it if he thinks no one is watching.
4	1371772800	It was super easy to set up, seems easy enough to clean, but as the cat I got it for hasn't arrived yet I can't speak to any other factors in a review. It does seem quiet when it runs and it moves a lot of water. We'll have to see how the cat likes it...
3	1371600000	I really like the shape and material of this water fountain, but my two small dogs are not really using it. I just got a new puppy and at her old home the owner had this fountain and said all of her animals loved it. So I decided to get one so the puppy would have a familiar item. But to my surprise, neither my first dog nor the new puppy are very interested. My other problem is, everyday when I come home, there is a puddle of water on the floor. I don't know if there is a leak in somewhere or if the constant flowing water is spilling over the top. Either way it's annoying. I've only had the fountain for a week, so I'm going to continue to test it and see if things improve.
1	1371513600	Worked for on week. Just as I got my old cat used to it, the pump stopped. I bought the filters and cleaning kit too. Threw the whole thing out. My dog wouldn't even use it because of the noise. I never give bad reviews, but this one was the one bad item I had to write about. Sorry. It really was a waste of money.
5	1371513600	The cats enjoy the fountain, easy to put together and refill.  Very useful to have for your pets and a lot easier than having water bowls around.
5	1371513600	I rescue cats and currently have 18.  I have two of these fountains and love them.  The stainless steel doesn't cause feline acne or nose discoloration, also keeps the water cooler.  We have well water with excess calcium and it was problematic with the drinkwell plastic fountains.  Not so with this one.  Once a month I remove the filter and fill it with half and half white vinegar and water and run it for an hour.  Rinse it, run clean water through.  The pump comes apart completely for cleaning inside and out.  I did buy a set of small brushes to clean the tiny areas.  Even the impellor comes out so you can clean the cylinder, just pop off the cage and the small guard that holds it in place.  I've had these two fountains for almost 5 years now and both still run like new.
3	1371513600	When it arrived I put it together and it did not work. I contacted Amazon and sent it back. I have lots of cats and it would not work for me.
5	1371427200	My older cat demanded I change her water bowl two to three times a day, with this new fountain, I need to remember to change it.
5	1371427200	Watering a cat means you need a pump that'll work no matter what, on a surface that won't collect grime. This one definitely has both. Not as chaep as plastic, but worth it.
5	1371427200	I mainly bought this for our cats, the three of them love and so do our two dogs. The cats love to drink from the flowing fountain, the dogs love to drink from the basin. I have a dog that is a water lover and thought he would only play in the water and make a mess, but no he does not play, only drinks. They are happy pets and I'm a happy pet owner.
5	1371340800	cats love it, easy to clean and quiet. haven't even notice much of an increase in my power bill either so woot
2	1371340800	I thought my cats would be all over this dish. But to my surprise they were scared of it. I have 7 cats and have only seen one cat drink from it.  I would not recommand this . More work involved cleaning out and than have to make sure the water level stays up for the pump to work.  Thumbs down on this one.
5	1371340800	My old fountain was a pain to clean.  This one is soooo simple.  Water stay nice and fresh and it's super quiet.  My kitties love it.
5	1371340800	After a couple of days of just looking at the fountain, our cats now love it and drink from it often. It is also a soothing feature in our kitchen that we enjoy.
5	1371254400	My cat is around 19 years old and has become very picky about having fresh water at all times, even to the point of waking me up in the middle of the night for some cool water.This fountain has exceeded my expectations so far. Having both the fountain area and the bowl for her to choose from is nice; she goes back and forth from the bowl to the bubbling fountain part, and she is drinking plenty of water now. She hasn't woken me up once since I got the fountain.The stainless steel looks great and is easy to clean. The pump is very quiet. You can hear it if you are close, but otherwise it is almost silent (the water bubbling makes as much or more noise than the pump).Cleaning is very easy. Everything comes apart quickly and things are easy to get to. The filter catches any cat hair or debris that gets in the blow with no problem and is easy to replace.For the price, you can not beat this fountain. A+++
5	1371168000	I had a plastic drinkwell previously, and the side cracked somehow. Started leaking all over the place.THIS fountain though is amazing. I've seen it go half-empty and not sputter out of control. Incredibly easy to clean (no nooks and crannies, just a big tear-shaped bowl).The motor itself is attached with suction cups, so you never hear it grinding or vibrating. EVER. This thing doesn't make a sound, and I've had it a little more than 3 months!The first day, my cat drank out of the side-well, but since day two he's only drank from the actual stream and drinks a lot more than he normally would.All in all, great buy!
5	1371081600	One of my two cats has a distaste for all of the water bowls I've used in the past. She would drink enough, but not quite enough to be healthy and she was experiencing fur loss from overgrooming. A few months ago I noticed my cats would wait for me to change the water in a humidifier I was using and drink what remained in the reservoir when they thought I wasn't looking. It gave the idea that maybe they liked moving water more than the stagnant water I was leaving them. A few quick searches online revealed this water bowl to me and it has been a real blessing. My cats looked at it suspiciously for the first day, but after that they won't touch the other water dishes now. They love this and won't drink anywhere else now. They stopped pawing at the water in the toilet, they stopped going into the shower to lick the water on the floor, they only drink from this. I use a brita pitcher for my cats water and I like that this has a secondary filter as well. I have some reservations about the city water here and this makes me feel better knowing my girls are just getting the water they need and thats it (phooey on you flouride haters, it's  a good thing). I'm buying another one, but I think I'll try the ceramic version next time. No reason, the steel one is great, I'm just thinking I'd like some variety. Dog, cat, it doesn't matter. This item is wonderful. Buy it.On a side note to the reviewers saying that it sprays water on the floor, inside the pump/filter assembly on the pump itself (small black box) There is an adjustment for the water flow rate. The instructions included recommend setting this to it's second-lowest setting. This is where mine is set and I have had no noise or spill issues with my fountain. Hope that helps.
5	1371081600	We had two previous and different water fountains for our cat. This is by far the best! Doesn't leak all over the place, not too noisy. We, and our cat, love it.
5	1370908800	Initially my cats had a plastic water fall dish that was a pain to keep clean. The Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel fountain is much safer for my pets and SO much easier to clean. I've been extremely happy with my purchase & so have my pets!
5	1370908800	Got this to encourage my cat and dog to drink more. Dog had some issues with bladder stones in the past and I wanted to make sure she was drinking more. She seems to like it and seems to be drinking a bit more. It does make some noise if the water level gets too low, but over all it is quiet. I like that you can adjust the water flow. Would recommend.
2	1370908800	Nice design but the motor was so loud it could be heard two rooms away. None of my 3 cats wanted anything to do with it.
5	1370822400	Our cats love it! They really like flowing water and the previous plastic model we had from a different manufacture would leak all over. The design of this dish makes it impossible for it to leak, unless you overfill it, which is your own fault, not a design flaw.Great stainless steal construction and it looks great in a stainless steal kitchen.
3	1370822400	So far, I've purchased two of these, about one year apart (the most recent this week).  The first one is great : once you get the pump and filter unit adjusted, it's pretty quiet.  Not silent, but nearly so.However, for this new one that came last week, it appears they are using a different brand or model of pump.  This one is NOISY, and we've tried several different adjustments and can not get it to quiet down.  Not sure if we can return it, or get a replacement part for the pump or what.Otherwise, I like the design: the stainless steel cleans up nicely with detergent bleach & hot water, the cats like it.  We change the filter once a month, and change the water about every week which seems to keep it from turning into a petri dish.
2	1370736000	I loved the fountain for a few months, and then the motor just completely quit working.Pro's: easy to assemble, disassembledishwasher safelow noiseCon's: the plug detaches at the power source, instead of the pump, so you have to run the cord all the way in and all the way out any time you want to do anything with it. If it detached at the pump, you could leave the plug in the wall, and just pull out two inches of cord, rather than a foot and a half.As stated above, the pump quit working after a couple of months.
4	1370736000	We've had this pet fountain for a couple months now, it's very VERY quiet, comes apart well and easily for cleaning and gets a couple of our male cats to drink more, and more often, which was the purpose. it's also kind of &#34;pretty&#34; so it's not an eyesore in our room!
5	1370736000	My 6 cats now have fresh, filtered water accessible 24/7....recommend this for anyone who understands cats are not natural water drinkers and need a product to entice them .
5	1370649600	I got this fountain about a month ago for my cats and they all love it. One of my cats loves to drink out of the sink and I was tired of seeing her on my kitchen counters. She loves the fountain but she still loves the sink...I love the look of the stainless steel, you cannot hear the motor unless you don't have enough water in it and it is easy to clean up. For the price, I am very happy with this purchase.
5	1370563200	Easy to set up and clean and my picky kitty just loves it. It's perfect for a one cat family and eliminates the need to clean the bowl daily. Now I only clean it once a week. The only negative is having to change the filter monthly but you can buy them in bulk amounts through amazon.
3	1370476800	Thought this would be a great way for my three cats to get filtered water since my oldest likes to put her paws in the water bowl to drink... And it was good for the first couple of weeks... Now there is a loud hum and can be very distracting. We only have it plugged in for a little bit of the day...
1	1370476800	I loved this product at first - and thought all the negative reviews about the motor were just bad luck for those folks. Well, they were right. It worked great for about 6 weeks. In fact after four weeks of working perfectly I ordered 6 replacement filters because I thought it was a keeper. Nope. Wrong. It has completely stopped working. Nothing. Not even a buzz. Its busted after 6 weeks. The motor went out. What a bummer. Now I just have an expensive bowl and lots of useless filters. No replacement motors to buy either.
5	1370390400	My cat will only drink from running water, but with his long hair the Drinkwell fountain kept clogging, even with weekly cleanings! So I bought this one with high hopes and so far we love it. It's MUCH easier to clean, is quiet, and motor has been running strong for the past 2 months now. Our cat love it as well :) meowIf this were to break I would buy another for sure.
5	1370390400	The first fountain I bought for my cat was one made by Petco. It was a blue plastic one and it was ok for a while. Soon, though, it seemed it was constantly not running as well as it should. The pump needed to be cleaned more than every 2 weeks, more like once a week, and even then it often didn't flow as well as it should. It also had lime build-up from the water that was hard to remove. It also seemed that Montague, my cat, wasn't drinking out of it as much as he had before. That was the straw that broke the camel's back. I decided to get a new one to replace it. I read reviews on different fountains and decided to give this one a try. I'm so glad I did! This one is much, much easier to clean, and the pump doesn't clog up like the old one did (I think this has a lot to do with the design of the holder that houses both the motor and the filter). As for the lime build-up, all I have to do is take undiluted vinegar, put it on a paper towel and wipe down the lime after washing the fountain (which I do about once a week). I rinse off the vinegar and it's as shiny as new! Best of all, Montague is once more drinking more water from the fountain. I think the problem may have been that after awhile, the plastic was holding odors or tastes that he didn't like. Plus, the stainless steel helps to keep the water cooler than the plastic did (one reason cats and dogs drink out of a toilet is the water is nice and cold). All in all, I would recommend this fountain to anyone. You can get this fountain at Petco, but I would advise buying it here since it costs almost twice as much in their store. However, you can go there to buy the filter refills since they carry them there.
1	1370304000	Worked great and the cats loved it, but today the pump broke and yesterday the pump broke - 1 day after I could return the item.
3	1370217600	After buying three Drinkwell Platinum units in the past few years I decided to try this one.My main issues with the drinkwell's was that they were 1) hard to clean, and 2) over time the plastic gets pitted which means that the plastic is leeching out into the water over time and my cats were drinking it. That didn't sound healthy. The advantage to the drinkwell over this unit is that it holds a LOT more water.This unit is quite easy to clean and I change the water every other day. It flops into the dishwasher easily and seems to work well.  Being metal there is no plastic leeching going on but I can't say for sure that nothing is leeching off the metal coating.The only reason I am only giving it a 4 is that the cats don't seem to care for it as much as the drinkwell. I think they miss the waterfall but I am also wondering if perhaps the metal is causing a taste issue with the water.I'll update this review after a while if I figure it out.I wish someone would make a well designed one made out of mostly glass. This same design in glass would be a 5.UPDATE 4/15/14Still using this product and it seems to be holding up. Only negative is that hard water calcium deposits have been forming around the edges and are hard to get off.Updated 6/18/14I bought a new ceramic fountain "PetSafe Drinkwell Ceramic Pagoda Fountain for Pets" and put both fountains together. Cleaned this one and put in a new filter and then let the cats decide. They overwhelmingly chose the ceramic unit to such an extent that after a few weeks I gave this product away to a friend. It is just a guess on my part, but I think the metal flavors the water in some way.
4	1370044800	I like this product.  It's easy to clean and the cat drinks more water which is good for him.  easy to clean.
5	1369872000	I had another pet fountain that was very difficult to clean. This one is better looking and MUCH easier to clean. The cats and I are very happy with this purchase!
5	1369872000	This may be simply because I'm a nurse, but this fountain looks like a bedpan.  That said, this is a great product.  It was very simple to put together despite looking a little intimidating coming out of the box.  I am not at all mechanically inclined.  It runs quietly as long as there is enough water in it and my pets love it.  Even my chihuahua, who is afraid of area rugs, was brave enough to check it out and actually use it.  I really thought she was going to need a separate water bowl.  It's a good size for my small dogs and cats but I'm not sure if it would work so well for the larger breeds.  So far, so good!
4	1369785600	This product is very nice and my papillons love the motion and drink more water from it than an ordinary bowl, however, it does get dirty quickly which is expected with a dog product, nevertheless... i just like it, not love it. and the filters dont last long and end up putting more money into the product... but again, thats expected when you buy a filter water fountain for dogs.
2	1369612800	I bought this because it is stainless steel and would not gunk up like my previous plastic fountain but just like other reviews say it kinds splashes off the side as the water goes down the curved part, I still use it but have to prop a washcloth underneath it to even it out so the water doesn't splash out, would not buy again and would not recommend, get something else
5	1369440000	This bowl is much easier to keep clean than the previous one I had. It comes apart easily and since it is stainless steel can be washed in the dishwasher. Most important my cat loves it
1	1369440000	This Pioneer Water Fountain is very noisy. So noisy that my cat avoids it and heads for the old water bowl. In fact, it is annoying for me too. I have tried to re-position the motor housing and different pump rates, holding my finger on the separate pieces thinking it might be vibration between the pieces, but nothing helps, just a loud humming noise. My sister has a plastic pet fountain and while plastic is not a good choice for your pet it is very quiet, apparently because of a better pump and overall design. If you like white noise in the background go ahead and buy it but for me and my cat I will return this one and start searching for a quiet one.
4	1369440000	AS a household with 3 cats and 3 dogs, I have to refill this twice a day because my pets much prefer this fresh moving water to the water dishes which are also available.  I purchased two about a month ago and unfortunately one of them is already not working.  I wish there was an alarm that would go off when the water level gets low so the motor doesn't get burned out! :(  I assume the motor is burned out... it just stopped working... but it wasn't empty when it happened.A little pricey for that kind of durability.  :(
5	1369440000	My cat Lily loves this fountain. She drinks out of the spout and is drinking more water now. Cats needs to drink so as not to develope  kidney problems.Our vet recommended a fountain but the first one we bought was too hard to clean. The Pioneer Pet raindrop fountain is the best and is so easy to clean. Takes about five to ten minutes of time. So glad I bought this fountain. The design is very nice in the kitchen --unlike most fountains.Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel  Fountain Raindrop Design
1	1369267200	Pump gave out after ONE week + 1.5 weeks...RIDICULOUS....for $44....I bought this from someone on Ebay in February (different seller) and it's still going strong...not sure what happened with this one, but buyer beware!!!UPDATE: took unit apart, including pump...was able to stick a knife in blades to get it to work...had to reassemble entire thing, plug in...stick knife in blades to get them to turn and now it works...there were no clogs in it as I thought originally....not sure what the issue was, but it work now...in case this happens to any of you -- there is a little cover over the blades on the pump itself...you have to remove the cover to see if you can touch the blades to get them to work again...worth a try..unit is WAY too expensive to only last less than 2 mos!
5	1369267200	My puppy Bailey loves the way the water is always bubbling, and because of this she is drinking more.Best drink in town.
5	1369180800	This fountain stays much cleaner than the fountain we had used before.  It took our cat about an hour to get used to it.  We unplugged it first, let him check it out, and then plugged it back in.  He loves it, and consequently drinks all the water he should have.  He used to play in his old fountain and make a huge mess.  This one he does not.  If you keep the water level up it will remain relatively quiet.
5	1369180800	The first day my cat wasn't too sure about this, but that's all it took. Water consumption is up and I have a very hydrated cat, who loves this fountain. It runs very quiet. It also makes a nice addition to room decor if placed well. Cleaning is very simple and easy to put back together. Very glad I purchased this and so is my cat!
5	1369180800	Once we put this on the floor even though she had another type (which was junk) it took 2 days before she got used to this new one so don't be surprised if your cat hesitates. We clean it every Sat. and change the filter every month. We subscribe to  those through Amazon and you can't beat the price. We also bought a RO system through Amazon thus no build up in the fountain or pump.
5	1369094400	One of my cats used to beg for water from them tap and the other always tried to drink from the toilet.  Since getting this fountain as far as I can tell they drink from it exclusively and, given how fast the water level drops, regularly. It is easy to clean, but is about as loud as my cool mist humidifier (a low hum) so it is not silent. If the top metal part is not fit carefully over the pump output, it can vibrate against the bottom part and be quite noisy.  Repositioning the pump stops this vibration.
4	1369008000	Havent had any issues with it! my cat loves the bowl, even plays in it. lol Happy with the purchase!
4	1368921600	The inside cover doesn't appear to be stainless steel, rather plated chrome.  When I first put  it in water to clean it , an oil film coated the water.Now that time has passed since I first wrote the review, I have discovered that the fountain is stainless steel and not chromium plated as so many Chinese products are.  The original film developed as I washed the fountain for first use.  I suspect  it must have not been rinsed thoroughly prior to being packaged.  My Cat Sweet Pea loves the running water this simple fountain delivers.  I'm happy when she is happy.
5	1368921600	This is a great fountain - easy to assemble, easy to clean and quiet-running. The flow coming out of the top is easily adjustable. I have 5 cats, some like drinking from the top, others like the reservoir, so it's nice to have both options there. I definitely recommend this product, and am considering buying a second one as well.
4	1368921600	This fountain travels with us on trips--our 'kids' are not as receiptive to it as they are to the &#34;Big Max&#34; version; however, both are stainless which makes for easier cleaning and none of the build-up of sludge that seems to happen with the plastic fountains.
5	1368921600	This item is easy to install and keeps my kitty's water pure and fresh. I no longer have to worry about impurities in the wter he drinks as the water in his new bowl is constantly being circulated.
5	1368921600	All 3 of my cats love this fountain. Each has a different favorite section, one the bubbling up area, the other the streaming and the 3rd the basin portion.  I had trouble getting them to drink enough water every day.  I tried all kinds of tricks. But as soon as I set this up and plugged it in they began drinking from it.  I see them go over for drinks several times a day.  Its easy to clean , was a bit difficult following the picture directions to put together the filter, but once done no problems.  Its meant for smaller animals not large dogs since you would be refilling frequently.  I do give this a BIG thumbs up
5	1368921600	After failures of previous fountains, I noticed one thing they had in common. The design was too complex.This fountain is simplicity itself.  It's extremely easy to clean. Its design does not make it prone to leaking due to the sloppy fit of many small parts.
1	1368835200	It's nicely built, except for the plastic you can't see under the steel, so the water does come in contact with plastic.  The problem is that the water comes out too hard and fast and it scared my cat.  Had to return it.
1	1368748800	We used this for about 3 weeks and it worked ok.  Now the pump has failed and the product no longer works.  This was surprising given the other reviews.
4	1368748800	I had a plastic drinking fountain for my cats and after one piece broke and the motor finally quit, I bought this one.  It works better, has a filter design that is easier to clean, and offers the cats two way to access the water.  The negatives are that the pump housing simply attaches to the base via suction cups and you have to fiddle with it to get it in just the right place to fit the top.  The top is a little more flimsy than I like,  Overall, it's worth the price and is better than what I've seen of the competition.''
5	1368662400	I bought this fountain to replace a horrible Petsmart brand fountain and it turned out to be a wonderful replacement.  My two kittens also love the fountain.Setting up the fountain was very easy.  I washed it before putting it together and had it assembled within 30 mins (the kittens also kept investigating and getting in the way).  Once assembled, I followed another reviewer's advice and ran the fountain for a few minutes, and then changing the water again for the kitties to drink.  My two kittens took to it right away and they love drinking from the fountain portion as well as the water reservoir.My main issue with the older fountain was that the pump would start making loud suction noises when the water drops more than half an inch from the rim.  This new one eliminated the annoying sound all together.  Once, I found my 2 kittens had drank half of the water in the fountain in a couple days, but the pump was still just as silent as when it's full.  When it runs normally, there's practically no noise.  Since I have this a few feet from my bed, it's a wonderful feature.  The only noises I've noticed is when the filter gets some fur caught in it so the water doesn't flow as smoothly to the pump.  It was easily fixed by rinsing the filter with some water since it wasn't quite time to replace the filter yet.I've only cleaned the fountain once (when setting it up the first time), but I found that it was much easier than the old fountain because there were no nooks and crannies that I couldn't get to.  Overall, I'm very happy that I got this for the kittens.  Not only am I sleeping better without all the weird pump noises, but the kittens also seem to be drinking lots more water.
5	1368489600	the cats love it and drink out it all the time. they prefer this lil machine to a regular water bowl with fresh water. Easy to clean, use and upkeep is a breeze. Plug in and let it be - PERFECT ty
2	1368489600	I bought this for my 14 year old cat, because she always wants us to turn on the bathroom faucet so she can drink from it.  It is a beautiful unit out of the box, but when we filled it and plugged it in, it made a lot of noise but no water movement whatsoever.  I reread the instructions to see if we were doing something wrong...but no.  There isn't much to do.  It just has a defective pump.  Now it's just sitting here, waiting for me to see if it is too late to return it (when I get time to do it).  Too bad, I really wanted this to work.
5	1368403200	I have 2 cats.  At first Eddie was just fascinated by it and would just lie next to it to watch it, and Bella was afraid of it, so I was totally bummed.  But after a couple of days (and me putting Bella next to it) they started using it and they do seem to be drinking more because they are peeing more :).  So if you get it and they are skittish around it at first, be patient and keep showing it to them.
5	1368403200	I was afraid my cat would be afraid of this because she is so skittish and this fountain makes a humming noise.  However, my Lily took to it right away.  She likes to drink from the basin and also the downhill stream.  I'm glad I bought it.
4	1368316800	It is attractive, which is important since anyone in the kitchen sees it. One cat likes it, the other one tolerates it. I like it because the water stays clean without much effort on my part. I would recommend it to friends.
5	1368316800	Had the fountain for about 6 months and very happy with it. Comes apart for easy cleaning.Would not hesitate to order again. Very well made
5	1368316800	I bought this because my old fountain had given out.I had a plastic one before and I love the stainless stell so much better.It is easier to clean and quieter than my last one.This one will also not give my cats acne!
5	1368316800	Exactly as advertised.  High quality product with fast shipping and a great price.  Cats love it and it stays clean without daily washing like our plastic one did.
1	1368230400	It lasted one week at my house.  Water is supposedly &#34;filtered&#34;.  Right........Why did our water always have a layer of scum on it?  No real circulation or flow.  Don't waste your money.
1	1368230400	I bought this fountain in the hopes of having my cats drink more. One of them loves it--when it's working. The other is frightened by it.It started out great but within 2 weeks it was getting loud and the flow slowed considerably. I followed the instructions in the manual for cleaning the motor, but that didn't help. Then I watched the youtube video and the motor function improved, but only for about 3 days. I wish I hadn't bought this product and will be calling the manufacturer to try to get my money back.
5	1368057600	This is our third kitty water fountain and it's the best one yet - our Echo loves it and it's super easy to clean compared to the previous ones
5	1368057600	We were using a fountain from a different vendor and it was a pain to keep clean; that was my primary motivation to look for a new one. The Raindrop fountain is wonderful; really only three pieces (counting the pump system as one piece). Very easy to keep clean, very high capacity for water. No nooks & crannies to gather scum and slime like the old one.This fountain *does* make more noise than the old one and it scared the cats for a day or two. My solution was to set the pump on its' lowest setting for a few days, and then gradually open it wide. I also experimented with where the pump ass'y sat as well as how well it was suction cupped down and I've found the 'sweet spot' where it barely makes a purr (no pun intended). Overall, I like this fountain and it'll suit our needs for many years to come.
5	1368057600	So, my cat would sit in the kitchen or bathroom sink and drink from the water faucet. I would worry about her getting enough water during the day especially when it is warm out. I wouldn't ever see her drink from a bowl or glass no matter where I put it in the house. She loved the running water and likes to get her paws wet and then lick them dry. With the Pioneer fountain, I catch her drinking from it and playing in it a lot. It is very easy to take apart to clean and is dishwasher safe. I no longer worry about her getting enough water. She still sits in the sink and plays with and drinks the dripping water, I don't think she will ever stop that. It seems to be a common thing with cats...lol.
5	1368057600	I bought this fountain almost 3 years ago and the motor finally wore out, so I bought another one.  I love it - it looks great, it's quite and it's really easy to clean.  The cats love it too - especially when it has been freshly cleaned and the water shoots out of it faster than after it's been in use for a few weeks.  Highly recommended!
5	1367971200	This fountain has 3 drinking options...the cats can choose to drink out of a bowl access area, a stream, or a little fountain of water. It is easy to clean and I've had no trouble with crud growing on the bowl like I did a plastic fountain. The filter lasts a month and I opted for the subscription ordering for the filters. I get a 3-pack every 3 months.I think this fountain has improved the water consumption of my 2 older cats. Older cats often need to drink more water and the design of the fountain is encouraging them to do just that. My youngest cat found the fountain shortly after I got him home and seemed to know it was for the cats.
4	1367971200	I got this for my dogs and I am inlove with it. The design is very sleek looking but its really easy to clean. Also the filters can be replaced with regular Coffee water filters. So replacing them is very easy.  My dogs have been drinking alot more since I got this system and I feel really good about it.
5	1367971200	He drinks a lot more water than from his regular bowl... He really likes to drink  from the fountain slide part. I haven't even seen him go to the bowl side.The only problem we have found, and I don't even know if you want to call this a &#34;problem&#34;, is that once our puppy has drank so much water it makes this funny noise and the fountain stops flowing. But it only means it needs more water. So we just fill it extra full in the morning and haven't heard the noise/stopped fountain since!Such a great purchase!!! and a much better price than at a pet store... Petco wanted $75 for it!
5	1367798400	I had an older plastic fountain that broke. It was hard to clean (too many crevices), slim collected on the surface and cat hair in the pump. This new design fixes all those problems - the stainless stays cleaner and slime free. And the three piece design makes it easy to clean. Having the pump inside a buffer piece with the filter keeps cat hair out. Love it as do my cats!
5	1367712000	My cats love this fountain! It runs quietly and I've noticed my cats drinking a lot more water since I bought it. Easy maintenance. I recommend this to anyone with pets.
5	1367712000	This unit is very quiet.  My cat would never dream of drinking anywhere else.  The power supply make the setup a breeze.  Just fill up the bowl when you see if run a bit low. The filter pump increases the pumps life time by keeping the stray cat food particle out of it.  Great buy.
1	1367625600	I was looking for a metal fountain since one of my cats has reactions to plastic dishes and the other refuses to drink from still water. I love the fountain itself but the motor stopped working after 3 days. The replacement lasted a whole 2 weeks. I was filling it every morning and the water level never go much below an inch below the rim. Since I didn't want to keep having to get replacement pumps, I purchased a cheap ($16) pet fountain at a big box store and used that pump. It fits in the filter area and has been working for 2 months.
5	1367625600	I bought the 60-oz. Pioneer fountain for my two cats, and they both like it. The fountain has been running continuously for a year and a half without a problem. Before I bought it, I read some reviews that said the fountain was noisy. I would describe it as quiet. The sound increases slightly If you let the water level get low. I take the fountain apart, including the motor, and clean it twice a week. I put in a new filter once a month. The filter seems to trap debris better than the filter that was in my previous Petmate fountain because the Pioneer motor stays cleaner. I like that the Pioneer is made out of metal (the Petmate was plastic). One reviewer said the plastic gasket used in the Pioneer gave off an odor. I have not found this to be true. After about a year, I tore the gasket when I removed it--not carefully enough--to clean underneath it. Pioneer Pet immediately sent me a new gasket free and didn't even charge me for shipping! Also, if you are trying to decide between a Petmate and a Pioneer: the original motor in the Petmate lasted well, but when I bought a replacement motor, it lacked a flow lever that was on the original. So it was an inferior motor compared with the first and failed after one year. I'm very happy with the Pioneer, and my cats are, too.
5	1367539200	My dog loves this fountain. She drinks a lot more water now. The water stays cleaner and cooler. Very easy to clean
5	1367452800	THIS PRODUCT IS JUST LIKE IT ADVERTISED, IT'S GREAT. AS SOON AS I HOOKED IT UP WITH THE WATER IN IT, I WOULD SAY IT TOOK A FULL DAY FOR MY CATS TO ACTUALLY DRINK OUT OF IT BUT IF YOU KNOW CATS THEY HAVE TO SNIFF IT LOOK AT IT I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY TIMES BUT THE NEXT DAY EACH ONE OF THEM WERE WAITING FOR THE OTHER TO FINISH SO THEY COULD GET A DRINK. PLUS NOW THEY DO DRINK MORE WHICH IS GREAT. THANKS!
5	1367366400	Bought this for my two cats. They enjoy the water play and it helps them stay hydrated, cutting down on that awful ammonia smell that  tends to come from the litter box. I've tried other models purchased from a retail "giant" and all of their pumps stopped working. So far this is working like a champ. The design is sleek and its easy to clean. I highly recommend. Don't forget to get extra filters!!!
5	1367366400	Love this! We moved to a much hotter climate from England with our cats and were worried that they wouldn't drink enough to compensate, so we bought one of these with the idea that the circulating water would be too much to resist.  It was.  They adapted to it really quickly and were using it within minutes of it being plugged in and filled.  The unit buzzes a little but it is not too noisy or distracting.  It is quick to set up and easy to clean when needed.  We liked this so much that we got a second one.  Excellent buy but make sure you top it up regularly as your cats will be drinking more than they used to!
5	1367280000	I was a little worried about ordering the fountain due to some of the negative reviews regarding the noise, the difficulty of properly cleaning it and putting it back together, and the issues some have had with the motor burning out. However, I am worried no longer! This has been a wonderful investment and my cats are still thanking me for it!I have had this fountain for about 5 months and have not had a single issue. It's a breeze to clean, it's extremely easy to take apart and put back together and the motor is very quiet! I replace the filters monthly and my three cats seem to be very happy with clean, fresh, bubbling water.The last fountain I had was a very cheap plastic one and it was horrible to clean and could not be placed in the dishwasher. The stainless steel is so easy to clean and it also looks great in the kitchen!Everyone in my household is thrilled! Thank you Pioneer Pet!!!
5	1367280000	This fountain works great, the filters are very environmentally un-friendly.  My prior fountain was plastic(I didn't know any better at the time) and this one steals the show. Easy to clean and my kitties love it!
5	1367280000	I purchased this fountain 3 years ago after learning that one of my senior cats was allergic to plastic (not uncommon at all with male cats) and suffering from Chronic Renal Failure.  The stainless steel eliminated the outbreak around the mouth caused by exposure to plastics and encouraged all of my cats to drink more water.  A couple were leery of it for the first few days but now it is the go-to spot for all water consumption for my 5 indoor cats.Hint:  Add a couple of leaves of fresh basil to the water and the cats will be even more drawn to it.  There is something about basil that cats are drawn to and they will go for the bowl of water with basil in it over the one without every single time.
2	1367193600	Have had Drinkwell for years, tried this one.  The stainless steel parts are easier to clean and it looks nice, but that's the only things I like about it.  You have to fill it up to the very top to keep the motor from making noise... then it splashes on the floor.  What a waste of water.  The motor, rubber and plastic parts are slimy after a few days.  Doesn't smell right either.  Wasted more $$ by buying extra filters when I got this.
1	1367193600	I bought this fountain about two days ago. I hadn't read any reviews but just picked it out in the store after looking at several fountains they had.  I wanted to buy something right away since my previous fountain had kicked the bucket.I do like a few things about this fountain:-it is stainless steel, which is cleaner and healthier than plastic-it is a nice shape, easy to clean.  no little nooks and crannies for gunk to build up in-my cats and dog all drank from it readily-you can fill it up by just pouring water in, no messing around with a reservoir that you have to turn upside down-there are not a lot of pieces to deal with when you take it apart and clean itBut now for the problems:-it doesn't hold much water-you have to really bend down close to see how much water is in it.  If you look from your full height, something about the bottom edge makes it look like that's the water line, but it isn't.  My husband and I both kept thinking it was almost out of water when it wasn't.-the water doesn't really flow freely, it just sort of runs down this ramp.  This isn't a big deal, but my cats really enjoy playing with a stream of falling water, and this fountain doesn't have one.-it doesn't have that nice waterfall sound-it stopped working after about a day.  I took it apart, cleaned it, and put it back together.  It worked for about 8 more hours and then woke me up at 4 am making this crazy loud sound.  I unplugged it and went back to sleep.  When I got up, I took it apart and cleaned it again, even cleaning out the pump (which shouldn't have needed any cleaning yet anyway, and did not have any hair or debris clogging it.)  It just never started back up again.
4	1367107200	This fountain is super easy to take apart and reassemble after cleaning. That was the biggest selling point for me. I haven't had to change the filter yet but i think I am going to at least try another reviewers suggestion and purchase fish tank floss and charcoal. I clean it every two weeks. It isn't slimy or gross in any way so the filter and pump seem to do their jobs.I have a chihuahua and a sphynx. I purchased it because the cat likes to drink from the sink but I cannot leave it on all day. I thought this would be a good substitution and it seems to keep the water fresher. The dog drinks from it but was timid at first. She's a chihuahua after all.  The cat had some funny initial response to it and on occassion acts surprised by it. They both drink from it.
3	1367020800	I like the look and it seems to encourage my pets to drink more. However, the fountain is not designed for cleaning. There are non-removable pieces and the wire is long and slotted through the fountain body. I twist-tie the extra length of the wire, but every time I wash the fountain, I'd have to un-tie and re-tie the long wire. Also I wouldn't really trust the filter; it's very small to begin with, I still see some little sandlike size chunks at the bottom of water. The filter looks like is just two pieces of craft felts with carbon inside when I took it apart.
1	1367020800	Bought this item as a groupon. It was horrible. The metal is so light and flimsy and the pump gets clogged so easily. The water pressure is so low it barely trickles down the top. The motor is very loud as well.  we bought this to replace our drinkwell platinum model, which we be ordering to replace this one.
1	1366934400	DO NOT BUY, It Doesn't work, it broke before it even started, its a little one inch pump attached to a bowl, you are stupid if you buy this, like I was before I returned it one day after buying.
5	1366934400	This product has been excellent for my household. One cat loves to drink right from the fountain, while the other prefers the still side. They drink more water than they used to, but I consider that a positive! We recently adopted an elderly cat with the beginnings of kidney issues and I believe the fresh water from the fountain encourages him to drink more often. There is some noise from the product, but it fits in with the standard hum of most household appliances. The product has been easy to clean and re-assemble and the pump is still working well 9 months after initial purchase. It can get grimy looking on the outside if not cleaned frequently, but that's a reminder to me that I need to clean it!
5	1366761600	My cat drinks more water in a day than he did in a week before I bought this fountain. Great item
5	1366761600	havent had any issues with it, our cat took a bit to get to use to it, but over all good product.
5	1366675200	My cat's littermate died of kidney failure last year. My vet wants me to get my cat to drink more water because it will help keep her kidneys in good shape. She does not have the thyroid problems of her sister, but she did have constipation.She would only drink out of a certain mug in a certain place. I guess if I use it, it must be good ;) I had gotten her a plastic fountain and she still chose to only drink out of the mug and very rarely. The plastic one got slimy very quickly.I got this metal one thinking it would be easier to clean and it really is! It stays fresher and is much quieter than the old one. She drinks from her mug, still, but every morning she has an extra drink out of her fountain. It's been enough to clear up her constipation!It is definitely picky cat approved. It did take a few weeks, but she likes it now.
5	1366675200	When I read the reviews, most people said they were looking for something like this because their cats love drinking from the faucet. I wasn't interested in it for that aspect, but wanted something that would offer my cats fresh water. They were using a regular bowl and the water would get dirty and full of hair very quickly. I had to change it out too often and I was worried that my cats weren't drinking as much because it wasn't fresh water. This was exactly what I was looking for!It took my cats about 4 days to drink from it. They are terrified of every little thing, so they steered clear of this when I first put it together. (Assembly was easy.) I decided to do what another reviewer did and wait them out. After a few days, they finally decided they were more thirsty than they were scared. They won't drink from the fountain part (it splashes a small amount and, like I said, they're scared of everything). They love drinking from the bowl, though. The noise is minimal and the water is clear and clean! Exactly what I was looking for.
5	1366502400	This product is very easy to put together and clean.  My cats are definitely drinking more water.  Drinking more water is one of the things that helped my 14 1/2 year old cat's constipation problem improve.
4	1366502400	It took a few days for the cats to start using it but once they did, they seem to prefer this to the dishes of water that I still have out for them.  I have to add water to it every day so I know they are both drinking a lot more water than they were before I got this.  A few times when I didn't change the water for more than a week I had the pump stop working, but once I took it apart and cleaned it, it worked fine afterwards, so I do suggest following their suggestion to clean it well every week.
3	1366416000	The product is well designed and build. The problem is with our two Yorkies who are afraid of the pumping noise and refuse to drink from it. I disconnected the pump, but they still refused to drink from the &#34;fountain&#34;. We then removed the SS cover and now, they finally accept it as a &#34;drinking dish&#34;. We eventually will put back the cover and hope, that thereafter they will accept the pumped water.Sasha and Buffi are tiny (about 5 pounds) and are simply overwhelmed  by the &#34;machinery&#34;.
1	1366329600	4 months after buying this drinking fountain for my cats, it has already stopped working.  But here is the kicker, I have only used it once since it was delivered a few months ago.  Putting it together today, the pump no longer works.  And ofcouse the return time period is already past.  I now have a very expensive water bowl...
5	1366243200	Every now and then the Peasant surprises me with a superior offering worthy of my praise, and this fountain is one.The water is always sweet and refreshing like an afternoon rain.  This is the antithesis of the hard water crusted steel slop bowl from which I was previously expected to drink .  By contrast, the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop Design allows me to slake my thirst with fresh clean water every time I drink.  I can choose from one side which has "flowing water" or the other with a still pool.  My only complaint, (a very mild one...an afterthought really) - the motor is rather loud on occasion, and of course I have extremely delicate ears so it can be disconcerting.As a reward, I no longer imbibe from the toilet or wake the Peasant at 4:00 a.m. to turn on the faucet so that I might drink.  From this day forth I will allow her to sleep through the night (unless I get hungry, or want attention, or feel like she has slept too long) in which case I will exercise my right as King to encroach upon her dreams.Sincerely,Steve-The-Cat,,,^..^,,,?
4	1366156800	You need to make sure it is always filled with water to within an inch from the topLetting run dry will cause the bearings to scream and shorten the unit life
5	1366156800	I got this and put it together easily but it had a rubbery smell from the fountain.  I had to run water through many many times and many many hours to get that smell out.  Finally when I couldn't smell it any more I put it out and within a week or so I'd see all the kitties over there.  I have one kitty that begged to drink out of the faucet but now this has taken the place of that which is great because she has Interstitial cystitis and this has really helped.  One note I saw where a lot of people complained that the motor went out and I'd say just make sure the water level stays really full up to the rim because if the pump goes &#34;dry&#34; then it will burn out the motor.
1	1366156800	This is a great design, compact etc.  But it is fairly thin metal and therefore in our situation the noisy vibration was distracting.  We donated it and hope someone has a use for it.  If one didn't need it to be quiet this would be a perfect solution.
1	1365811200	Within one month of use the motor flat out died. It was very disappointing, I took out the motor and lid so the bowl just sits like any other regular water dish. Be prepared to do routine surgery on the motor to keep it running if that is your desire! (read customer questions and comments below) I own a fish tank with a very similar motor, it has worked for 2 years now without having to open it up and clean parts like you have to do with this!
5	1365811200	I've had cats for many years, and have gone through multiple water fountains. In the past, I have ended up with mold or mildew growing in the little recesses of the fountain. If it weren't for the fact that my current cat just won't drink water that isn't moving, I probably wouldn't have ever bought another fountain because I just hate to clean them. This one is so easy to clean! It takes me about 5 minutes to dump all the water, take it apart, and clean it with the brush vs. about 20-30 minutes for some of the other fountains I have owned. I like the fact that this fountain is stainless steel for several reasons: (1) It doesn't get scratches where mold and bacteria can grow, so it just seems more sanitary, (2) a lot of cats are allergic to plastic and will get chin acne if they are eating and drinking from plastic dishes, (3) the stainless steel seems to keep the water cooler, and more appealing to the cats. I have really had trouble getting my current cat to drink water, but this fountain has done the trick. She was interested in it from the beginning, but it took her several days to finally start drinking out of it. I am very happy with this purchase.
5	1365724800	They love it. I bought my cats this fountain for entertainment purposes--one of my cats loves the faucet and the tub and the hose, so I thought he'd like this. He does. Set up was very easy, and the unit seems sturdy.tyju8 &#60;---genuine review from cat. That means he loves it.
2	1365724800	It is a good looking fountain and the cats liked it but the motor was too loud for my liking.
5	1365465600	My cat took to it right away. It is easy to use and easy to clean.  Are all cats needy or do I just have a spoiled brat?
5	1365465600	I was recommended this fountain from my vet when my cat got a urinary obstruction from crystals.  It cost me $2,000 in vet bills and I wanted to make sure this never happened again.  I almost lost my precious kitty.  We also switched his food to a prescription diet for urinary health.  As with all of the other reviews I've seen, my cat was hesitant at first, but after a day or 2, he started drinking out of it and seemed to love it.  He drinks from where it bubbles at the top and from the ramp.  It says to put a mat underneath it in case water splashes out, but I haven't had that problem.  It is very quiet except for when it needs more water, then you know to fill it up some more and it goes back to normal.  Nice design and matches our kitchen with all stainless steel appliances.  The only thing I'm worried about is buying new filters as often as it says it will need it, but I haven't come to that point yet.
5	1365465600	3/2014 update:Almost a year of continuous use, and still going strong with original pump.  We have only had had to replace the filter at regular intervals, which is to be expected.  We give it a good rinse out once a week or so to get rid of hair and bits of food that find their way into the bowl.  This really helps minimize the frequency of needing to tear it completely down and scrub it out.The only thing we do to it is soak the stainless pieces in regular white vinegar every couple of months to get rid of the deposits from our hard water.  But that's just to keep it looking nice, not really something we've noticed affecting the functionality of the fountain.All in all, still very happy with our purchase.  Our cats drink from it quite regularly, and sometimes just sit and stare at the "waterfall".As I said in the original review, we don't have experience with any other pet fountains.  But this fountain has given us no reason to feel like we should try any others.Original 4/2013 review:It took a few days for our cats to totally understand what this was for, but now we find them spending more time drinking water.Has a decent capacity, so we only have to refill about once every two days (with two adult cats), instead of at least once a day.We try to remember to wash it once a week, but have left it for two weeks without major gunk issues.Stainless steel is easy to clean up.Yes, it has a plastic shell that the pump lives in, but it's a small amount of plastic for the overall size of this thing.  And we've never found gunk or film, if there is any to be found anywhere in the whole fountain, on the plastic.Filters are easy to change and not overly expensive (no more than other pump filters).Most noise we've ever heard is a low hum if we don't quite line up the pump port with the hole on the fountain top quite right, but there's never any splashing water noise.Now we have no experience with other fountains to compare to, but we also don't feel like we need to try other fountains.A pleasing purchase on Amazon, yet again.
1	1365379200	I bought this item in November of 2012. I adopted a shelter cat, and only wanted the best for him. This fountain was the worst! Within 2 weeks I was dealing with slimy water and green mold on the motor housing. I kept cleaning it, and it didn't matter. And I'm convinced the filter did nothing but sit in the water. The water isn't even forced trough the filter on it's way up the tube. How useless is that?I did not adopt a cat to offer him slime and mold. I quickly replaced this piece of junk with the Glacier Point Basic Pet Fountain. A few months later, I bought the optional Chiller, and upgraded his new fountain to their Perfect Model. My cat now drinks more water than before. CLEAN water!!
5	1365292800	I had a differnt pet fountain previously and this one is much superior.A snap to clean up.  And the cat seems to like it!
3	1365206400	This is a good looking water bowl! But it's a little tricky to get the water to come out of it so I've had some frustrating moments. But overall, it's not so bad and the cats use it, so that's a plus.
4	1365120000	I recently bought and/or received three cat fountains for my two kitties (senior adult; ~15 pounds each). This will be a review in three parts, as I feel the fountains are best reviewed in comparison to each other.---Hagen Catit Design Fresh and Clear Cat Drinking Fountain/ B004L4XR3I (2 Stars)The Hagen Catit fountain was such a disappointment to me, because I love the clean modern look of the Hagen Catit products and I love the "expandability" of the products they have for sale -- it seems like all their products have some optional add-ons that stroke my "buy gifts for kitty!" impulses. Unfortunately, the Hagen fountain I received was super loud and the plug-in was worrisomely hot to the touch. It was quiet from the time we plugged in the unit until the next evening, at which point it had escalated to a dull roar that could be heard from the other side of the house. Cleaning the filter and unit didn't affect the noise, and when we unplugged the unit to clean it, we realized that the power source was burning hot to the touch. I think we received a faulty unit. Probably the company (or Amazon) would have sent out a replacement unit, but I didn't want to try again because the cats didn't seem to care for the "bubble-up" nature of this particular water fountain.---Drinkwell Rectangle Multi-Level Plastic Fountain Drinking Dish/ B0056ASTES (3 Stars)This was my second Drinkwell fountain, received free through Vine after my first one broke. This is a different model and I don't think I like it very much. For myself, I found it difficult to put together -- the unit has to be compressed with your hands and snapped in and out of place, and I found this very difficult to accomplished. (Note: I am a person with a disability. Your mileage may vary.) And this unit, while not as loud as the Hagen, was still plenty noisy -- about an hour after plugging in the fountain in the kitchen, I realized I could hear it humming from the bedroom. I'm very sensitive to electronic noise, and so I didn't care for how loud the unit was in our home. I will say that our cats liked this one just fine, and were not put off by the form factor or the sound (although they were already used to our last Drinkwell, which was far from silent), so I will keep this one for use on our outdoor patio.NOTE: This review is based on a free Advance Review Copy of this product provided through Amazon Vine.---Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop Design/ B0037NKDSG (4 Stars) [This is the product page you're currently on.]This is the fountain we ended up keeping for use in the kitchen. I really like the teardrop shape, and the cats took to the fountain with no issues. I like that they can drink from the fountain or from the relatively-still "pool" that collects to the side. Best of all, while the unit isn't noiseless, it's definitely the quietest drinking fountain we've owned -- there's very little electronic hum, and it's largely drowned out by the normal splashing fountain sounds. I also like that the unit is super easy to dissemble and clean -- I can clean this fountain by myself in five minutes flat, with no snapping parts to wrestle into place. The only potential downside that I can see is that a really energetic dog or kitten might be able to shift the parts, but my cats are quiet senior adults and don't try to play in the fountain. I will also note that I like the shiny silver surface, but it seems to be losing a lot of luster in the short time since we've had it. So it's not perfect, but it meets our needs.~ Ana Mardoll
5	1365033600	Having used Petmate water fountains for years I was looking to this fountain for a bastion from terribly hard-to-clean corners and laborious disassembly and assembly. It did not disappoint.Pioneer Pet has made a wonderful fountain that is both extremely quiet[1] and easy to clean.  The entire assembly is 4 pieces (6 including the filter cartridge and pump) that for the most part fit together with gravity and suction cups. It takes seconds to tear this thing apart and a mere handful of minutes to wash and re-assemble.The most annoying part of the entire thing is having to thread the pump cord through a hole in the back of the basin each time you disassemble/reassemble it. But compared to every other fountain I've ever used that is a very minor gripe.This fountain can even be placed entirely in the dishwasher except for the filter and pump.[1] The fountain can become somewhat noisy if the pump is blocked or if the water level is too low. Try adding water up to the base of the top section first and if that doesn't fix the noise clean the entire fountain including disassembling the pump (should not have to be done frequently).
5	1364947200	My cat loves this!  We had a plastic version of this before which did not hold up so well.  This version is quiet (as long as the lid is on as it should be).  While it does get some water marks that don't go away, it doesn't look dirty at all.  I only see the water marks when I'm cleaning it.  Speaking of cleaning - it's pretty easy!  The cord is detachable from the plug which is really nice.  It takes a little time to line up the piece that blows air to the cover and then to the lid, but that gets easier as it's done more.
5	1364860800	My four cats always want fresh water and I was having to go to the sink many times daily.  Since I got this about 10 months ago, I can rest and all of the cats love it.  The pump stopped working once (we have very hard water here) but I looked online and there were some easy instructions for cleaning it and then it was up and running again.
5	1364774400	My cats love this fountain.  I bought one of these and another with a &#34;water fall&#34; that I thought they would like.  They never used the &#34;water fall&#34; fountain, so I retired it and bought another one of these.
4	1364601600	My cats like this and I got it because another friend said her cats love it.  It's a little noisy so I don't want it near the family room where we watch tv
5	1364601600	Bought this to replace a plastic pet fountain due three of our four cats having allergies and our Vet suggesting it could be from the plastic fountain. Love this fountain, it is so quiet, does not need refilled as often as last fountain, cats had no trouble adjusting to it, and it is easy to clean! Highly recommend this fountain.
5	1364515200	Before this I had the plastic drinkwell platinum.  This holds less water, but is a breeze to clean.  At first, because of the way it flowed, I thought my cats would not like it, but they took to it right away.  Great price!  I am considering buying another. It is also quiet if you keep the water level high enough.
2	1364515200	I picked this up because our Drinkwell fountains pump wire was frayed.  I figured with all the good reviews and this being stainless, it should be good right?  Not really.  Quality is nice, stainless is nice but this thing is far from silent.  All I hear is the motor vibrating along. I'm partially deaf and it still annoys me!  I've tried everything to make it stop.  Nothing. Does the ceramic one have this problem?  Is it because of the stainless steal/hollowness of the dish?  Is it the motor?  We have two fountains, none of them make this amount of noise.  Anyone have any suggestions?
4	1364515200	We go this to replace a larger plastic one that had failed the pump. This one has a nice filter that should hopefully keep the pet hair from fouling the pump. The only issue is that it gets noisy when the water level falls a bit, but this is a signal to refill. We saw an identical unit at a big chain pet store for over twice the price!
5	1364342400	All of my animals love these fountains. Originally purchased the larger one for my cats but the dogs now use it too. Thus leading to my purchasing the smaller fountain as well.
3	1364342400	I purchased the pet fountain for my 2 1/2 year old cat thinking this was a brilliant idea.It was super easy to put together, and once I figured out the pump speeds I got it to where it worked semi-quietly and flawlessly. It was brilliant. (After the initial 'OMG how fun is it to play in the running water' phase) He drank the water happily and when the water level of the fountain dropped, it would make more noise to give me an indication I needed to add more water. I marked on my calendar to change the filter monthly.Well, as time wore on my beautiful stainless fountain became very gross looking from my hard water. Neither lemon juice nor the scrubby could get all the scale off. It made me pine for the ceramic version. The cat hair would get sucked into the pump area, and be a royal pain in the wazzo to clean. (He's a long hair, and sheds)And then the cat got diarrhea. The vet couldn't give me a good diagnosis initially, and suggested I do some serious house inspecting to see what he could be eating/drinking. I took the fountain apart for it's monthly scrubbing and noticed black mold around the rubber bits. So, I stripped it and scrubbed it. The next month, the mold was back. So, it came apart and regular water bowls went out. Now, did the cat get sick from the mold? The official diagnosis is IBS, but if he wouldn't have been sick I may not have been inspecting the rubber bits the way I was.I still think it is a great concept, but time wise I apparently cannot maintain it properly.
4	1364342400	I have previously used those plastic water fountains. They have to be scrubbed quite frequently, and even then the hard water deposits just do not come off because plastic is porous. I've used this bowl for about a month; so far, no rust! Everything rusts quickly in Houston, between our hard water, humidity from the salty Gulf, and acid rain.I wish this steel bowl had a backup reservoir like the big plastic ones do. I travel a lot and am sometimes gone for a week at a time. Because of the shape of the bowl, roaches have stayed out of it, another draw back of the hollow-bottomed plastic fountains that are drawn to the motor's heat, the water itself, and  the dark shelter.
4	1364256000	I have 3 cats, one of which is having kidney issues and constantly wants a fresh bowl of water. I read somewhere that cats instinctively prefer moving water as it is in their DNA to reconize it as cleaner/fresher. Everytime I walked past the water bowl she would yowl until I changed the water. This was a 4-5 time a day event. I finally realized it was the movement of the water that she liked. It took about a week but she is drinking out of this fountain and not yowling!! WHOOP WHOOP!! The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is because it is a little loud. Our bedroom is at the oposite end of the house so no problem there ~ I just keep thinking something on the stove is boiling. I would recommend this product.
1	1364083200	This was hard to put together, splashed all over the place and made so much noise my cat never went near it.
2	1364083200	Easy to assemble and clean but my cat did not like it and would not drink from it. Very disappointing.
3	1363996800	I have to agree with those that had problems with this fountain. It stopped working after just a week and a half. I'm not sure what I'll do with it now but I don't recommend this product.Update: I took the motor apart as of the suggested cleaning routine. I found nothing blocking the motor from operation, but after putting it back together again, it works. No idea why it stopped working to begin with but have changed my rating to reflect the product. I guess it works as described and is a good product.Life lesson learned with this purchase however...my cat still prefers the dripping sink faucet and pretty much ignores the fountain and drinks out of the bowl part of it exclusively. Why do I spend money on this dumb cat only to end up looking foolish? Happens all the time with toys and gourmet food. I should have left him at the Walmart where I found him.
5	1363910400	Due to my cats recent bout of cystitis, his doctor said i should find a drinking fountain to encourage increased water consumption. After reading reviews, this sounded like a good one. Arrived quickly, easy to set up, and Ripley (cat) took to it right away. No problem cleaning it either.
5	1363910400	Had a larger ceramic fountain that used the same pump and filter that got moldy. This one is smaller but the two cats have had noproblem with the smaller size. The stainless steel is easier to keep clean than the ceramic one.
5	1363824000	Came within 2 days of ordering. Works and looks great as well.Now my pets can enjoy fresh water 24 hours without my worries.
5	1363737600	This is my first cat fountain, and my cats just love this thing.  They're pretty picky when it comes to drinking water (don't like tap water, only filtered.  Also discovered they prefer drinking from a stainless steel container than a ceramic or plastic bowl/container).  Before I got this fountain, they were drinking about 4-6 oz. a day in total (I have 2 cats).  Now, I find they drink about 12 - 14 oz. everyday, and nearly exclusively from this fountain (their other water dish has pretty much been abandoned in favor of this fountain!)  They love it, and I love that they're drinking more water (we live in the desert and it gets pretty dry here, in addition to them eating a mostly dry food diet, so getting enough water is important for their health).  My only complaint (minor) is that while the fountain is pretty quiet when the container is full, it gets a little loud and sputtery when it gets about half full.  Overall, an excellent product and an excellent price.
2	1363651200	This fountain was suggested by a friend and came highly recommended.  Pricing was a no-brainer, as it was about half the price through Amazon as in the pet stores. I have no complaints with Amazon - I ordered it on a Sunday and it was on my front porch on Wednesday.  And now I discover that returning it is a breeze!  The fountain was the disappointment for me.  I gave it a week, and it's just not for me.  It is too noisy, it looks messy all the time from the spray of water that comes off the bubbler side, and I just can't NOT change my cats' water every day!!  I know, that was part of the selling point, but now that I've tried it, it just isn't for me.  So back it goes, but for the right cats and owners, it is a cool product.  I do have a few friends who have this fountain and the bigger one like it, and they swear by um.
5	1363651200	Practically silent.Bought this for my new kitty whom I never saw drink water.  Took the advice of another reviewer to run the fountain for a few hours before giving to the cat to get the petrol smell/taste out of the water from the rubber gasket. Initially. it did make quite a bit of noise (for a few minutes). It has been quiet since then.Sometimes after cleaning it makes more sound. I check to see that the rubber gasket for the fountain motor is pushed down all the way, fiddle with the two stainless steel pieces to make sure they fit together correctly and move the motor in the dish until I am satisfied with the quiet.I do not find that it has to be completely full not to make noise. The sound of the water is soothing and the sound of the motor while (barely) perceptible is quiet.  Easy to clean. I do not use the filter, as we filter our water with a high end filter (Multipure).Although I have yet to see the kitten drink from it, my family says she has. It is pleasant enough looking to be a decorative fountain.I saw a few reviews about excessive noise that almost scared me off. Glad I went ahead and purchased it.Update: Saw Kitty drink from it. Also she has pawed at the water. She's weird.
2	1363651200	I purchased this for my geriatric CRF cat after the Petmate Infinity's pump went out after only 2 months.The pump is like a pump in an outdoor fountain, which works well, but it's noisy.  This noise is amplified when you put the top on and then it creates a vibrate/rattle noise along with the hum of the pump.  This deters my cats from wanting to drink out of it, so I use it with the top off, so they can drink just from the bowl.  With the top off it sounds more like a trickling fountain.  With the top on, they don't want to use the slide or top portion at all.If I could do-over, I'd purchase a different pet waterer/fountain.
2	1363564800	My cats were not thrilled with this fountain, they thought it was strange and wouldnt drink out of it.  It didn't spout or anything like I had hoped, it mearly trickled down water and they just dont care about that.  When the water would evaporate and it got a little low, it would make a very loud motor sound.  We ran it for 2 weeks, cleaned it, added water every day and they just didn't care about it.  Also, it would spray water around the side where the water flowed down so we had to put a towel under it to protect our wood floors.  Just didn't suit our purpose and kitties don't miss it.
5	1363478400	It is different. Took the cats a few days to get use to it. Now they love it. It does not spill and is easy to clean and to fill.
4	1363478400	I have a large fountain that was primarily purchased so my dogs would always have fresh water when they're outside. It works great and they love it, except for my toy Pomeranian, who's too short to drink out of it. I was thinking about building one specifically for her, but when I saw the Pioneer Pet fountains, I figured that I'd just purchase it, instead.For the most part, it's a wonderful product that works as advertised. Yes, it does make an irritating noise, which could be masked with the smoothing sound of falling water, if there were any falling water, but I wanted it for outdoors, so I didn't care. Unfortunately, it clearly states that it's for indoor use only, which I didn't realize when I purchased it (actually, I didn't know because it doesn't state that anywhere in the description here.)I don't blame Pioneer Pet, but I do think they're missing a market by not making outdoor fountains. I'm going to look for an outdoor pump to replace the one that comes with it, because the power brick on the plug prevents it from working in my outdoor socket, anyway, and I don't want to take any chances with the thin power cord that comes with it.For the record, I have no interest in an indoor fountain and especially one that makes an annoying sound, rather then the smoothing sound that people like with fountains. I don't have a problem with filling up the dog bowls regularly indoors, but I don't like them to drink stagnant water outdoors, so I'm only interested in an outdoor fountain.Update: I haven't had much time to look for a solution to move the fountain outside, so I've been using it indoors. Even though I'm clinically death, the noise drives me insane. In hindsight, I wouldn't recommend this to anyone wanting an inside fountain, because of the noise. And, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone wanting an outdoor fountain, because it's not made for outdoors. I find it very disappointing that Pioneer Pet came so close to making a great product, but missed the mark by not thinking it through enough.
5	1363392000	This works great & stays clean.  My cat loves it!  It does have a slight motor noise when running but if your house isn't silent it won't be a bother.  Definitely a great price compared to the pet store.
5	1363392000	It's pretty quiet, my 2 cats love it, I have it set up on a timer o it doesn't run all day & night.  The motor & housing is sturdy, easy maintenance.
4	1363392000	I have had this model for a couple of months now. The main reason for buying it was from tiring of leaking petmate models, buying replacement pumps and cleaning hassels of the petmate. When the petmate started to leak I decided it was enough and found this model. It seemed to get mixed reviews so I wasn't too hopeful. But I will say the pump still works, it is a bit of challenge to set up properly, and I would recommend doing so on a regular basis (depending on how many pets use)to avoid horrid noises of no water remaining. The only complaint would be getting the water to come out. It is a matter of patience and practice; although this can be mastered after a few tries. I would recommend this fountain to those tired of the plastic model that leaks and are hard to clean this model doesn't have brush hassels and the filters look much nicer than the flimpsy ones. It looks nicer too, no wondering about your pet drinking plastic.
1	1363305600	none of my 7 cats would go near it. it hums. i think the water also moved faster than the one i had had, perhaps too fast.  i had to pay 6 bucks for return shipping on this because nothing was malfunctioning it just was that way, fast and noisy.  i had had a petmate freshflow but it was leaking. so sad i really wanted this one to work.
5	1363305600	I had tried another pet water fountain that was very disappointing and I had to return. Cats wouldn't go near it even after several days. So I did further research and read a LOT more reviews. I settled on this fountain and JOY! Its not only a good looking product, but it makes SO much more sense to have a stainless steel fountain overall. Its easier to clean and I am sure it will be better for the pets. Most important, the cats are using it! It took a few days of just staring at it, but alas, they finally gave it a try! YAY! And no more getting yelled at by my one cat to turn on the bathroom sink for her! She had gotten into this habit of every morning crying until I turned on the bathroom sink for her to drink from! NOW, no more crying she loves her fountain!It is also really quite for the most part until it needs to be filled with a little more water. Which I find good to have this feature so I am reminded to keep the water level high enough. As soon as you add water, it gets nice a quiet and is just like a little bubbling brook sound which is fine and even lovely! I am SO happy with this purchase! It is everything they claim and I would recommend it to anyone!Update 3-22-13: Ok, loving this still! A 2nd cat has finally come to use the fountain! The first cat to use it is SO very happy with her new fountain! No more crying to turn on bathroom sink! I can sleep in! Joy! The other 2 cats are still looking at it funny, but they are not as smart as the other too, so will take time but I am convinced soon they will all be drinking from this lovely fountain. Makes a wee little sound when it needs filling, but I like that so I know to fill it up! Cleans very easily too. Can't say enough about this fountain! Yay!
5	1363046400	I wanted as little plastic as possible in contact with the water, ease of cleaning and low noise level. The Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain has fulfilled those requirements. I read through the consumer reviews carefully. it was helpful to have the reviewers stress that the pet owner is still responsible for keeping the waterer clean and filter changed....you can't just 'fill it and forget it ' for weeks. I got the cleaner tool [not really necessary, parts are easy to clean without it] and 9 filters in bulk, so feel prepared. One cat likes the 'waterfall' water, one likes the 'still' water, it took about 2 weeks to get them really comfortable with the change but they now clearly prefer the Fountain to the plain water bowl that I still offer.
4	1363046400	Short and sweet review here...The kitty loves it. She no longer drinks out of our sink and/or tub. It's a win-win for us!For those that say it is LOUD...put some freakin WATER in it! If it's full, the filter won't whine.Sheesh...
5	1363046400	I spent about three hours searching and reading reviews on automatic water bowls, fountains, what have you.  I decided to try this one because the positive reviews more than outweighed the negative, as opposed to others.  My cats absolutely love this! I knew my one cat would because she loves jumping on my counters to drink from the faucet (something that I do not love).  My other cat however, came from a really bad home and I was worried she would be scared of it.  At first she hated it, I had to leave it unplugged for her to even go near it (as the directions suggest. Maybe more people should try doing this).  I think it was mainly the slight humming noise it made.  I've read complaints about the humming but really it's not as noisy as some are making it out to be.  My laptop's humming noise is louder as well as my refrigerator.  She came around to it within two days and I can now leave it plugged in and she'll drink from it! I've had zero problems with the pump clogging up, I don't know if maybe people aren't replacing the filter when it says to replace it.  I usually let it go a little longer than what is suggested and I still haven't had any issues.  I clean it once a week, just the same as when I used regular bowls.  Definitely a wonderful product and I will be buying the bigger size when I adopt a puppy!
5	1362960000	Had a plastic fountain and it was getting slimey and nasty all the time and didn't have a filter. I saw this one and had to order it. First the price was very good. When it arrived I was able to quickly put it together and let the animals explore. I think they were hesitant at first, but now they like it. I have 2 cats and a small dog. It's a little louder than other fountains. That would be my only complaint. It comes with one filter, so I just purchased more with my order just to have when it's time to clean
5	1362873600	Took a few days for her to get used to it, but she loves it now. Clean water and  oxygenated too.
1	1362873600	I purchased this fountain to replace the plastic fountain we were using as it easily grew bacteria. Just six months after purchasing this product, the motor stopped working. I cleaned the fountain every day, so I know it was not due to anything on my part. Since there are no replacement parts, the only option is to buy a new fountain. Needless to say, I will not be doing this, and I am back to using our previous fountain. I'm very dissatisfied with the lack of durability and quality of this fountain, and I will not be purchasing any of their products again.
5	1362787200	I bought this for my two cats who never seem to drink water.  It took them about 2 weeks to finally start to approach and drink out of it, but now they love it and use it all the time.  It is quiet (actually creates a pleasant water sound, like you would get from a fountain), keeps the water circulating and is easy to clean.  It also doesn't splash.  I have had it for 3 months and have had no problems whatsoever.
1	1362787200	Seems like a nice product, but our cat wouldn't go near it when it was running. We then gave her a few weeks without plugging it in and she would drink from the bowl, but as soon as we plugged it back in she was back to avoiding it. Had it for a couple if months, so probably too late to return it.
1	1362787200	The last cat fountain I had lasted for five years. I bought this in late November but didn't open and use it until the week after Christmas. It stopped working this week (first week of March). Less than ten weeks. Not impressed.
5	1362700800	I was worried that my cats would not use it. Burt all four of them used it right away and wouldn't use their plain bowls of water anymore. It's interesting to watch them. Sometimes they drink from the bubbler and sometimes from the stream and even from the bowl area. They drink a lot more water. (One even uses the bubbler to wash from).  My daughters cats love theirs too.
1	1362614400	I ordered this fountain in January, and everything was fine until the motor stopped working! This is my second pet drinking fountain from Pioneer Pet, and the same thing happened with the first one. DO NOT BUY. EXTREMELY POOR QUALITY. NOT WORTH THE PRICE.
5	1362614400	I have two older female cats who looooved to drink from the toilet.  I learned this is a behavior based on an instinctive preference for running water. So although its a completely natural behavior I was worried about them getting poisoned by toilet bowl cleaner and also the sight of little muddy footprints along the toilet bowl was not the chic home & gardens look I was going for.  Got them this fountain and they both loved it, right away.  No more toilet bowl diving!  One girl is very timid and she wasn't afraid of the fountain at all.  I don't find that it is ever loud, even as it runs low.  I've never let it get super low,I top it off every day and clean it thoroughly once a week.  had it over three months, no issues, and it looks really clean and nice, more look a bubbler than a fountain but that's why I chose it.  no splashing all over the floor!  love it love it love it.
5	1362528000	Fountain works great, the water is clean and it moves without making too much noise. I love that it's dishwasher safe, it makes cleaning fast.
5	1362528000	The kitties love it!  One is 15 and the other about 7 years old.  Surprisingly it took the younger one longer to get used to it but now they both love it.  It is easy to clean and you can just put it all in the dishwasher (except for the motor of course).
5	1362441600	I purchased this fountain over a year ago. My cats love it.  It took my female a while to  warm up to it but both of them are drinking more water.  The only problem I have had was I did not know you had to take the pump apart to clean it.  It worked for months and stopped one day.  I found a video on the internet that explaiined how to take it apart and clean it. It started to work again immediately.  You do have to be very careful. The parts are thin plastic. I use a tweezer to pry it apart.  Make sure the stopper is in the sink. You don't want to lose anything. I will admit you have to be careful.  But if you take it completely apart and use q tips to clean it you should have a pump that lasts for a while.  I did just get a back up pump from amazon just in case,  It was about $15 and was here super quick.  It is not from the same company but it looks just like the one that comes with the fountain. I only ordered it because it has been over a year and my cats really like the fountain so I did not want to wait for a replacement.If you have any noise from the fountain it is becdause everything is not lined up correctly.  Make sure the base, the pump, and the cover are properly aligned. Adjusting the pump casing should take care of everything.
5	1362355200	and since my cats rule my house that's all that counts. Probably should get another....seems like this one needs filled twice a day...cause the cats are constantly drinking from it instead of the toilet bowl, faucets etc
2	1362355200	I purchased this item for my two dogs.  I initially thought that this would be something good for them, but I noted that I needed to scrub the thing out every two days because the water didn't stay clean, and turned slimy fast.  I put up with it though since the dogs seemed to like it.  However a few months of doing this finally ended when the pump died, making the whole thing worthless.
4	1362268800	After I easily assembled the fountain, our two cats wanted nothing to do with this strange object that has a slight hum and vibration. I tried forcing them and I think that made it worse. But curiosity killed the cat. A couple days later, the sound of splashing water drew the scaredy cats in. Two weeks later, they drink two or three  times more water than they used to. They are still a little sketchy about that sound and vibration though. for that reason, I gave it a four star.
4	1362268800	Got this for Christmas.  The pump did stop recently (March), but about five minutes cleaning it (which they tell you to do regularly, I'd just forgotten) and it started right up again.  The cat loves it.  It is a little noisy, but that means I never forget to turn it off at night.
2	1362182400	After spending a month researching various pet fountains, I finally selected the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop Design for my cats.But before I forked out nearly $40, I purchased a cheapy fountain from Walmart to make sure my four kitties would even use a fountain.  Although they were skeptical at first, they all seemed to be enthralled with their new water receptacle so I decided to take the "plunge" and purchased this one.PROSThe design of this fountain is great!  Kitties can drink from several different locations - the bowl area, the slide area or the fountain area. And the assembly was pretty simple.  You just have to make sure everything is lined up 'purrfectly.'  While the motor is not silent, it does emit some sound which gets louder as the water level decreases.  The sound did not bother me or my cats.  Clean-up is simple.  My cats seem to drink a lot more water with a fountain and it's fun to watch them!CONSThe stainless steel is not very heavy.  One of my cats pushes it around and even knocked the top off.  The stainless also shows spots.  But the main negative is the motor itself.  Every other day, the motor completely stops working.  This has happened over and over again despite the fact I clean it all the time.  It's going back!While there are many good things about this particular pet fountain,  the negatives outweigh the positives.  I am returning it due to the motor issue.
5	1362182400	Good Looking and functional water fountain. Cats enjoy the water fountain and dog has no problem sharing. I like the looks of this but have really hard water so its hard to clean sometimes. maybe i will buy the white one? Excellent buy!
2	1362182400	Our dogs and cats loved the fresh water, but the pump stopped working after less than a week of use. Returned it.We tried this after our Drinkwell Platinum Pet Fountain stopped working after more than a year of use. We were looking for something a little easier to clean and less noisy.We are giving the Pioneer Max a try, hoping that pump will last longer.
5	1362009600	My 17 year old Main Coon started this thing where he would drag his water bowl all over the kitchen and then drink from the moving water. After stepping in the dang bowl umpteen times, we thought perhaps investing in a water fountain would be beneficial. The cat loves it! He drinks a ton more water, and rarely tries to drag the bowl anywhere. And when he does try to move it, it is too heavy for him to budge.Pluses:-The cat drinks more water.-I don't step in the dang bowl anymore.-The bowl is indestructible. And heavy when filled.-The bowl is easy to clean.Minuses:-The pump is loud. Louder than our fridge, but quieter than the clothes dryer.
5	1362009600	Stainless steel is easy to keep sanitary and it can go in the dishwasher. This water fountain is quiet and attractive...and so good for providing your beloved pets a clean source of drinking water.
5	1362009600	I LOVE this for the following reasons:1.  It cleans super easily the stainless steel.2.  For the fountain I had previously, you had to buy brushes to clean the motor or some such thing.  As you can see, I'm not very mechanical-I threw the previous fountain away rather than clean it!  The Pioneer Stainless Steel Fountain has great directions.  I even took it apart and cleaned the &#34;inside parts.&#34;  ME!  And it only took me five minutes!  I can't take ANYTHING apart!3.  It doesn't smell (due the the stainless steel)4.  My pets love to drink from it.Previous raters mention the smell from the rubber gasket.  This is true--rinse it a while before filling it.I noticed my cats are drinking more water now!
5	1362009600	This is a good product with great customer support. I had some issues but there were quickly and fairly resolved with the manufacturer.
5	1361923200	My cat used to like to drink out of the faucet. He now drinks out of his dish with the constant running water which keeps the water fresh and attracks the cats interest. Very quite also.
5	1361836800	This is my second one of these and NOT because the product is bad. It is actually very good, I am just incredibly lazy and didn't clean it often enough and my water is bad so there was so build up and staining.My cats love this. They love the fresh clean water and enjoy the &#34;challenge&#34; of moving water. One of the cats loves to paddle in the bowl so she likes the water going down the slide.The power cord is very long so it fits good in a lot of places. The bowl and the components are easy to clean. Instructions are easy to read and customer service is very friendly!  I bought the stainless steal one to cut down on germs that may stick to plastic ones.  I'll keep buying this as long as I have cats.
5	1361664000	Putting it together was easy, it shipped really fast, it's easy to fill and quiet, and my cat loves it. I would an will be making more purchases from the company.
5	1361664000	I waited until I had to clean it once before writing a review. The Pioneer Fountain is easier to clean than the old plastic fountain we just threw away.  The Pioneer Fountain is quiet and very easy to clean. It is a keeper.  Oh by the way, our cat really likes the Pioneer Fountain too.
4	1361577600	But our cat was drinking out of it within 30 seconds of it running.So far he has stuck his nose in the bubbler part several times, but drinks from the bowl.It was very easy to put together - and it is extremely quiet.Gave it 4 stars because I wish you could unplug the cord from the fountain end instead of (or in addition to) the plug end.  I have another appliance that does that and it works well.We have the fountain in a location where reaching the plug to unplug it for cleaning is going to be inconvenient - will have to try and fix that.
1	1361491200	Stopped working after about 3-4 days.  Do not buy.  Why do we have to keep adding words to send out a notice that a product is bad?
3	1361491200	So far this fountain works ok but it is really loud. I have another brand that is a plastic fountain and it is really quiet. It does also seem to splatter water outside of the bowl occasionally but the cats don't care.
5	1361491200	Cats really like using it better than just a water bowl, I guess it keeps water fresh tasting, & they seem o drink more water now.
3	1361404800	Our new cat loves to drink out of the faucet so we thought getting this would keep him happy.  He will drink out of it- although he still stalks you in the bathroom as well.  It's a good size (not too big) and not too loud.  We have hard water, which is obvious from the stains/marks being left behind that are close to impossible to remove.  Porcelain may be a better option if you have hard water!
4	1361404800	I WISH I had thought to video the initial approach of the cats to this new hydration device! Cat No 1: Fred the Intrepid (or so he would like to be) was the first to notice...Fred came around the corner into the kitchen...HEY!  WHAT'S THIS? Back end drops ready to bounce if this new device decides to attack but he continued...slowwwwly approaching, head bouncing slightly.  WHAT THE...?  I CAN'T REALLY SMELL ANYTHING (except for the somewhat smelly chemical from the rubber). I DON'T THINK IT'S A DOG...okayyyy okay...WAIT!  I THINK IT'S WATER!  NO...A TOY?  A NEW WATER TOY?????  (lick)...HEY!  THIS IS GOOD!!!!  Fred had to check out all parts of the fountain, but did keep his paws to himself. Success #1.  Monkey (my second cat)...ah, Monkey...Her thoughts: AW, HECK NO!!!! WHERE'S THE BOX???  OK, that's how I THOUGHT she would react.  But I was pleasantly surprised.  Although cautious, she also took to it rather quickly after a cautious circling.  I do NOT think this is going to replace Fred wanting to drink from the shower floor while I'm still showering!  HA!  or Monkey's routine of wanting to drink from the bathroom tap.  I'm thinking they like the interactiveness. They meow or stare beseechingly, and I am putty in their paws.  I know.  I know.  But back to the fountain: I very much like the esthetics (I have the stainless steel one).  I also like that it seems like a hygienic alternative to others.  And I like the trickling/bubbling fountain sound. I don't find it very loud at all, but I filled it full of water, and the water level made a difference.  As the water supply is depleted I'm sure the sound will increase.  Thanks to the contributor who mentioned that there was an adjustable pump setting.  I hadn't noticed.  I will check, but again - I don't have a problem with the sound at this time. I'm looking forward to continued success! Enjoy!
4	1361404800	So far so good. It's quiet compared to other bowls I purchased. If you let the water run low then it will make a sound. What I like is that I can put this stainless steel pet bowl in the dish washer. It's very easy to clean even if you don't have a dish washer. It also looks stylish. I've had several guests complement my cat bowl. Buy it online. Petco has it for $69 and I got mine here on Amazon for $39.
2	1361318400	My cats didn't like this fountain for some odd reason. They love their drinkwell system, but I wanted to find something different and easier to clean. But for some odd reason, they plain out refused to drink out of this bowl. I just ended up trading it with a friend of mine for her old drinkwell system (it was in better shape than my old one) and she didn't seem to have a problem with it.It also was slightly noisier than the drinkwell, which is why my cats might not have taken to it.
4	1361318400	Easy to take apart and clean. When toggled down the motor isn't annoying and runs very well. I am unsure of its actual electricity use over time but seems to be low voltage. Also since it holds quite a bit of water it will be terrific when I leave my new kitten alone for a whole weekend. Even though she still drinks from the bowl and not the spout/stream area overall water consumption has increased. Would recommend.
5	1361318400	It took all of 30 seconds for our one cat to fall in love with this fountain.  The other one took about two minutes to get past the pump sound and then she was fine.  They had to try water from the basin, from the spout, from the slope...everywhere!  I think our one cat drank for 10 minutes straight then ran right to the litterbox!  LOLI only have one teeny tiny wish - a latch of some sort to keep the top on.  After a few months of drinking and playing in it, one of our cats decided it would be fun to pull the top off.  All.  The.  Time.  We're working on improvising something.
5	1361232000	So far I really like the fountain. (I've been using it for about a month now.) It runs really quiet and is super easy to clean. I have two small dogs who were a little tenuous at first (which surprised me since they have been accustomed to fountains in the past). Once I introduced them to the fountain though, they were perfectly fine with it. The size is a little smaller than I expected, but that's my fault because the description clearly states that the fountain holds a half gallon of water. One caution - the fountain runs best at full capacity. The instructions state to make sure water is not below more than half inch from the rim, which is best. If you think you will not remember to keep it full, this fountain may not be for you.
3	1361145600	This looks great, but I had it in my room.  Thus, when it started getting a little noisier than when I bought it, I was annoyed.  I cleaned it and changed the filter and the noise persisted.
5	1361145600	I love this water fountain!  It is so easy to clean so much better than the Drinkwell Plastic one that I was using!  Its so easy to put together and keep clean.  No hundreds of nooks and crannies to try to get clean.  No hundreds of parts to take apart and clean either!  I love the stainless steel design and hopefully it helps to clear up my one cat's acne on his chin!  This is a marvolous drinking fountain!  I love it!
3	1361059200	We have 3 cats. Two are indoor and one is an outdoor cat.  Since we introduced the Pioneer a month ago.....none of them are using it.  The outdoor cat still drinks outside...somewhere.....and the indoor cats drink from the faucets.My wife put it in the bedroom as a Zen type sleep aid and that is the only reason I gave it 3 stars.  For our cats...it was totally worthless.~Peace
5	1361059200	I have multiple Cats and they all love it . They all have their favorite spots to drink from and it is so easy to handle when it comes to cleaning. I love it too!
5	1360886400	I bought two of these hoping that they would be as good as some of the reviews said they were.  I have two cats and a little Shih Tzu and they are all fussy about their water bowls.  Even changing the water daily there is still dust, hair and debris that gets in the water continuously.  I set these up as soon as they arrived.  It took a minute or two for the pump to really get going but then the water started flowing perfectly.  It took my pets a few hours to get use to it but once they did it was fun to watch them drink. None of them drink from the bowl area, they like to drink from the fountain. (Ok...What we won't do for our pets...Just to be sure they knew it was safe, I got down and pretended that I was drinking from it and they followed my lead shortly after.) They drink more water now and the water stays fresh and clear continuously.  There is a very low hum of the pump but it is nearly silent unless the water gets low. I only clean them once a week, rinse the filter, reassemble and it's ready to go for another week.  I'm running two of these and have only had to change filter about every six weeks.  My pets are small so the filters may need changing more frequently with larger pets.  I've had no issues with this product and highly recommend them.
5	1360713600	My cat has never been a great 'drinker', but he loves his new water dish and uses it all the time. So happy he's well hydrated now!
5	1360713600	My cat Pepper is 7 years old and last year the Vet said to be on the lookout for her kidneys as cats have reduced water intake as they age, so I panicked and already found this at amazon and decided to order it, and the 9 pack of filters. They both came together.  She loved it and it's so much easier than the Hartz square water fountain to clean and refill.
5	1360627200	I don't often rate something five stars but this deserves it. Here's why:1) Super simple and sturdy construction2) Easy to clean and maintain (just a lid and dish--motor is completely separate, self-contained unit)3) Whisper quiet. I forget it's there.4) Almost no splash. I've yet to clean up the area around the bowl.5) Cats actually use it and seem to enjoy it.The one thing I'm not a fan of is how quickly the filter needs to be replaced--between every 2 and 3 weeks, I believe. Not sure how much those cost. But pretty acceptable considering how much less hassle there is to having this fountain.I've read negative reviews about this that made me a bit hesitant to buy it---I've come to the conclusion that either those few people got a faulty fountain or that they didn't put this together properly which is hard to do since it's SO simple and there are so few parts, so I'm charitably choosing to think it's the former.Ultimately, I would buy this again.
3	1360368000	My 2 cats drinks more often now, the only problem is its quite noisy and I think the water pressure is quite low.
5	1360368000	So, I've had this for about 5 months now and the difference in my cat's life is night and day. Before getting a fountain, we had a regular water dish that we would fill periodically with filtered water. The water would literally sit and collect dust. My cat never went near the dish (he used to years back - he's about 13 now). He would drink from the toilet or glasses of water that may have been sitting around the house. He didn't look healthy, he was skin and bones and very quiet and lethargic.Then we got a fountain. Wow! Within a month he must have put on at least 3 lbs! He started skittering around the house again like a young cat and is simply healthier and happier in a remarkable way. Needless to say, getting that fountain has changed his life - he took to it immediately and now uses it regularly whenever he needs a drink.I highly recommend a fountain - especially if you have an older cat that seems to have no interest in drinking from a water dish.
4	1360281600	My cats love this fountain and I love the stainless steel design. It is easy to clean. The pump is not the easiest thing to clean and the setting can get messed up which causes unwanted splashing.
3	1360022400	In theory I think this is a great little product, but in practice I had no use for it because, no matter what tricks I tried to make her use it, my cat wanted nothing to do with it. Maybe getting the (more expensive) white ceramic version would have been better because it would have seemed more like her usual water bowl. Even when it was just sitting there not plugged in, it was treated as an alien, unwelcome, possibly dangerous object. I tried for about a week and then gave up. (Amazon let me return it but didn't give a complete refund; that seems reasonable.) Also, I think the product would greatly benefit from having a conveniently located on/off mechanism rather than needing to be pulled out of the outlet to be turned off. The outlet I wanted to use wasn't easy to reach.
2	1360022400	The exterior sides and bottom (where it doesn't matter)are high polish stainless. The inside where debris, minerals, and possibly algae could collect is rough finished so that those impurities have something to collect on and stick to that will also be harder to clean. The motor's hum could be heard over a running TV fifty feet in the distance here. The holding capacity is small, so you better have a tea-cup sized pet or expect to refill often (recirculation increases evaporation). The box pictures a cat but should say "small breed."  The inflow from the pump is so subtle as to hardly break surface tension (so I doubt any claims of oxygenation), and lastly the upper shell covers at least 65% of the potential drinking area.  Even self-stick rubber feet on the bottom bowl might insulate the hum/vibration of the pump motor from using a hard floor as an amplifying sounding board. If ordered one at a time a year's supply of the filters will cost $103.80 not including tax and shipping. A better unit would not have these issues and would either be activated (motion detection) by a pet, or at least have a light sensor and not run at night.
3	1359936000	Needed a new fountain as my other one started leaking. This one is fine, however I would recommend the ceramic options.
5	1359763200	The cats love this fountain.  Some of my cats like running water and the others like standing water.  This fountain provides both. It is reasonably easy to clean and only a slight noise as it runs.
4	1359763200	Got this for my cat because she loved to jump in the shower as I'm drying off just to play with and drink the water dripping from the shower head. I figured it would get her to drink more and keep the water fresh because she has a habit of cleaning her toys in her water dish and so the water would get quite dirty while I was at work and not around to change it.Took her some time getting used to it, but after weeks of wondering if I'd wasted my money and wondering if she was drinking any water, I finally saw her drink from the fountain.
5	1359676800	i read many reviews of the fountain as well as researching the other ones on the market. I decided to give this one a try and am glad i did! Our cat took to it immediately . I washed all the parts before the first use which was very easy to figure out and as another review said,  i noticed no bad smell as she had. i put fresh ice cubes in daily which our cat likes cold water and clean completely once per week. the price at Amazon was amazing since i saw the same fountain at a pet store for double the price.  Thanks Amazon:)
5	1359676800	Why did I bother looking in the stores, when here it was all along and reasonably priced. My cats love it, it is very quiet, not a problem at all. It only gets louder when it needs some more water. It is easy to keep clean (I bought the brush for it too) and you can order the filters using the 'Subsribe and Save' feature, plus they are very reasonably priced as well. A great product, highly recommend!
4	1359676800	Got this for our kitties as an upgrade from a cheaper plastic model we had. They really love it!We love how nice and quiet it is! It only becomes noticeable when the water has gotten low.Be prepared to empty and clean it out every once in a while though if you have hard/mineral water.
4	1359676800	After buying a popular gravity water feeder for my cat that would clog and stop supplying my cat with water, I wanted to switch to another option. This fountain has plenty of options for a cat to drink from, and mine will drink from the stream, pool, or pump section of it equally. It is far louder than I expected from all of the reviews.However, the pump is adjustable for strength (and sound), and the entire thing is constructed of stainless steel. It's very easy to clean, filters the water, and stainless steel is good for cats with allergies.Not perfect, but the best I've found.
4	1359590400	I purchased this (for more $$ from another site--bummer) in the hopes that my cats would accept it (you never know what will really catch on and what is money down the tubes...). They love it! One likes the bubbler part and the other likes the larger bowl area. It took about 90 seconds for them to figure out that it was okay and that the splashing/bubbling was part of the deal. It is fairly quiet when it's very full, but it does have a vibrating noise as the water level drops 1/4" or so down. It could be annoying if it's in the middle of your living area, but really no louder than the refrigerator. I'm going to try a bit of plastic bumper on the lip of the bowl to see if it will quiet it down a bit. The vibration noise is the only reason for 4 instead of 5 stars, but it's not loud enough to bother or scare off the cats.I tried it first with a plastic mat under it, but the cats didn't like stepping on the mat. I just put it directly on the floor and have had zero issues with splashing or spills, unless I'm the one who bumps into it. As stated in someone else's review, it isn't super heavy stainless, but that makes it easier to handle when it's full of water.It's super-simple to clean--every couple of days I just dump out all the water, run a paper towel or my fingers over all the surfaces, rinse, and refill. Each evening just a bit of water to top it off and we're good. Before, I was keeping up two large bowls that every night had to be rinsed, wiped, refilled, and slopped on the way back to the only place they'd be used across the room. This takes up less space and looks better than a lineup of plain bowls--plus the cats have gone right to it whereever it's been placed. I purchased the filters on subscription and think that's a real time and money saver, too, and am very glad I finally broke down and tried this.
5	1359504000	Love the stainless steel!!!My kitty, Norma Rey, had an allergic reaction to the plastic Drinkwell fountain and broke out with kitty acne all over her chin. Switched out the plastic for this super sleek stainless steel design and Norma's acne cleared up in just a couple of weeks!Also! The trouble with the fountain being on a "high" setting: before you assemble everything, the pump has a little switch on one side with a (+) and (-). To turn the fountain down so the water pumps at a slower pace slide the switch all the way to (-) and you should feel it click.Great product, pretty good price. Highly recommend for sanitary/allergic reasons. I Love Amazon.
1	1359417600	our cat LOVED it.  Until.. it quit after 2 months.  His heart was BROKEN.  Very sad.  DO NOT buy this.
3	1359417600	It seemed like a good idea at the time.  The cat is very picky and very seldom uses.  I think it's great if you don't have a picky cast.  Make sure you buy extra filters with it.
2	1359417600	I wish I hadn't spent the money for this..it's noisy and I still end up  dumping out all the water at least every other day because they won't drink it--- so obviously they don't feel it is fresh. Plus what they don't tell you is that you have to buy replacement filters every two weeks..cash cow???February 2013: Since I wrote the above review I have ceased using the unit. My furry friends just refused to drink from it or did so very reluctantly. After the dog laid there, staring at it for 20 minutes, and then reluctantly , with tail drooping went over to drink I couldn't' stand it anymore and packed it up for donation. I put down a fresh bowl of water and all three animals drank and drank and drank and kept coming back the rest of the day. I'm sorry that I  thought they woud get used to it after several weeks.
3	1359417600	While it worked, this was a great device.  Our dogs and cat quickly learned to enjoy the fresh water.  The capacity is somewhat limited, so I had to be careful to keep water levels up to ensure the pump did not burn out.  It is also important to clean the dish often as it can get dirty.  Even with those precautions, the pump stopped working after 34 days of use.Update:  I found a YouTube video with instructions on taking apart and cleaning the pump.  I followed those instructions and the pump is working again.  My advice is that when cleaning out the bowl on a regular basis, you should also take apart and clean the pump to ensure efficiency and a longer life for the pump.
5	1359331200	we love this and cats do too. It is stainless steel and easy to clean. Easy to drik out of. Recommend highly!
5	1359244800	My cats and dog enjoy the fresh water as opposed to the large drinking bottle we use to use because this way you keep it filled with fresh water daily.
5	1359244800	I am very happy with my purchase of the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop Design. It is compact enough to fit in a smaller area, yet it contains a water bubbler which keeps the water fresh.
4	1359244800	This is a wonderful water bowl and my cats love it!  They will drink from the fountain or the little waterfall.However since it does have plastic covering the motor you still have to clean it often.I wish they could figure out how to eliminate the plastic.
4	1359158400	INITIAL REVIEW:Product received, the Pioneer Pet fountain is pretty nice. It does make a little noise sometimes, but this is only the upper lid that will sometimes vibrate against the base when the water level is lowered. I just pushed down a little on cover and refill and it stopped. The cats were a little hesitant at first when approaching it, but became familiar rather quickly and now totally comfortable. The water really moves through the pump good. It started slow, but I think it was because filter needed to become filled and pressurized. Depending on how long it last now, I like this product and recommend it. I located an adjustment on the pumps that increase and decrease the pressure. Be sure to adjust this accordingly.LIVE TESTING REVIEW:After testing for a reasonable time, I can't say if it's saving or shortening our cats lifespan. It definitely allows the water to last much longer in the container and don't seem to get that slippery algae that occurs with standing water bowls. The filters price is questionable on the grounds that charcoal is a very cheap product and customers must continue to purchase these to maintain the fountain correctly. Nice way for a business to make money when you must continue to buy from them. The filters design is sufficient for the products mounting container and it is filtering the water very well. Be sure to first rinse the filters very well to remove the charcoal dust and try to fill them only with filtered water right from the start.One of our cats is so interested in the entire device , that he will fall asleep as he looks at the pumping water fountain. We can't tell if he enjoys the flowing water or looks at his distorted reflection in the shiny chrome finish.The only complaints I can come up with are as follows. The filtering and pump container seem to sometimes get particles caught where the suckers hold the filter to the bowl base. Simple fix is to clean the water and container which is a no brainer. The second issue has not happen and I hope to god it never does: this would be electrocution. With all electrical devices, you hope it is manufactured at the highest standards, UL list and tested, which it seems to have gone through. I would hate for the pump to fail and cause harm to our family pets. I keep a very close eye on this issue and keep the water clean for them.With all pets, put yourself in their shoes for just a bit. Look at their eating area and body waste basket and say to yourself, "Is that area clean enough that I could use that area"? If your answer is honestly a yes, then your doing great. If your a moron and can't even ask yourself that simple pet request then you do not deserve to be in charge of another animal's life, besides your own. Plain and simple.The product is worth purchasing, the chrome plating last and is done very well. Hard water will build up if not kept clean, so do your pet a favor and keep them happy.Amazon, you are the best when it comes to shipping merchandise. I think it took a whole 24 hours to arrive at my home and with free shipping. There is no company faster than you folks when it comes to getting items to the customer.
5	1359158400	Have had fountains before, but this one is easier to clean and holds more water.  Only downside is the noise.  The humming drove me nuts at night so I removed the top of the fountain.  It make a some noise with the top off, but that is to be expected.
5	1359072000	I bought this to replace the plastic brand I bought a few years ago.  I love how easy this is to clean and take care of.  The other brand had scum buildup much quicker and it took a lot longer to clean trying to get into all the corners, etc.  My cat took a little bit to get used to it, but he loves it now.
4	1358985600	I bought this because the drink well fountain I've had for years was so disgusting to keep clean and this one you can put in the dishwasher.  Time will tell if it lasts but set up was easy and I can already tell after a week, that my cats like it.  I love the stainless steel, very modern looking. Main reason for buying this was the cleaning feature so it has my thumbs up for being able to put it in the dishwasherOnly thing I don't like is it vibrates, best to have it in a room away from where it can disturb you.
3	1358985600	Not bad but the motor is noisier than in the heavier ceramic fountain.  If the water is not very high in the container it is even louder.
5	1358726400	I've had a few different cat drinking fountains in the past years. This one is far superior in that it is easy to clean AND has already outlasted the others. It is SO easy to detach the cord from the plug and pour out the water and rinse it out then refill without ever disassembling the unit.&#128571; Now, that's amazing! In addition, once a week I take it all apart and thoroughly disinfect it.  No problem there either; just unplug, lift off the top, remove the filter and soak all the other parts in disinfectant. Now, my sweet Sissy likes to pretend she'd still rather have water from a running faucet and I'll oblige her whenever I can. But I don't worry about her not having fresh water, because the Pioneer fountain has made that possible as well as easy for us-even if she doesn't appreciate it. HINT: if possible place any pet fountain on a countertop or table (the idea being &#34;off the floor&#34;). It makes so much difference in the amount of cat hair and debris getting in the water. ENJOY!
4	1358553600	perfect but filters are a bit expensive and unit needs suction cups on the base. cats like to move it.
5	1358467200	Some of the reviews mentioned that their pan was noisy.  I noticed this too until I moved the top fountain pan a small amount.  What is happening is the two stainless steel parts are touching each other and small vibrations from pump will transmit to a louder noise until you make a slight change to the two metal parts.  Take the top while still attached to pump and slightly rotate and noise should go completely away.  Only had this fountain a week and the cats have not gotten used to it yet on their own.  If I place one of them by the pan it starts drinking like normal.  Very happy with purchase
1	1358380800	This fountain is good-looking and appears to work well but I returned it because it was unacceptably noisy. The stainless steel is fairly light weight (no less than it needs to be, it seems reasonably well made, and it was easy to assemble) and on the tile floor where we wanted to use it it was simply too loud while running. The two cats wouldn't go near it unless we turned it off. Even with a cloth bath mat under it was just too annoying (had I not tried this unit I would have thought, "what could be annoying about the sound of trickling water?" I found out); plus the fountain on a bath mat thing wasn't the look we wanted. Too bad, because the fountain is far and away the best looking pet fountain I found. Shipping was quick; Amazon made the return easy, with a quick refund.
5	1358294400	This is the best drinking source for all my 7 pets. That's right, 6 Maltese & 1 poodle. As I help out with the Maltese rescue.  They just love it, and as long as you keep it clean and refill when needed it is not noisy as some reviewers have said.  I take mine apart completely about once a week and hand wash everything just the way the instructions tell you to do and we have no problems at all.  Just make sure to follow ALL the instructions and it is quiet as can be.  I have noticed a few simple things in the book that if you don't read it real good you might miss them as I did..  When putting the top bowl in place make sure to line up the hole with the pump housing spout.  Keep filled with water 1/2" from top edge of bowl. And the most important thing I missed which if not followed it WILL be NOISY... and that is on pg 7 of the booklet #1 make sure the motor flow rate lever is set to the second lowest position (Figure 8).  During cleaning you might accidently move the lever so just make sure to check that it's in the second position. I am speaking from experience and it was sooo noisy I re-read the book several times and noticed this important step..Hope my review was helpful.  DD
1	1358208000	I tried really hard to love this waterer.  But the motor just stinks.  And you can't buy just a replacement motor... you have to buy the whole unit every time the motor craps out.  I actually did that too.  And the motor does work a little better if you learn how to clean it properly... but not long enough to justify having to buy the whole thing again.  The think has quit on me "again"... and this time I'm only going to have to throw away one filter... I'm shopping for a different waterer.
5	1358121600	My diabetic cat kept batting his water dish so the water would slosh.  We bought this fountain for him and he seems to love it.  No really - he seems to love it.  He nestles up to it when it is functioning, and when the stainless steel pieces come out of the dishwasher, he comes running and watches me put the fountain back together and fill it.  Then has a drink, and once again lays down next to it despite that he had a full bowl of water where his fountain normally sits.The day came - the fountain stopped!  I emailed the Pioneer Pet Co, and I recieved a gentle email explaining that some owners forget to take apart the little pump and clean it.  I confess... I didn't read all the instructions.  I cleaned the pump and it's back working beautiful.  Great product and customer service - thanks Pioneer!
5	1358121600	I had to offer my cats their regular water dish for a few days to get them used to the low hum and the moving water but as soon as I saw both of them drinking from it I took the old dish away.  I like the idea of fresh water for them but do have to fill it up daily.  It is easy to clean and my cats are driking a little more since I am finding a couple of more &#34;pees&#34; in the litter box.
5	1358035200	I'm glad I bought this.  It's very quiet and easy to clean.  Much better than the plastic alternatives that are available.
1	1358035200	The headline says it all and from the reviews, i am not the first. Don't bother with the product. The cats love it but for this amount of money,  should last over 3 months
4	1357948800	I really like this product!  The graceful arc of the fountain portion is aesthetically pleasing and helps minimize noise.  The unit does emit a noticeable hum which can be helped by adjusting the top portion which makes me wonder how the ceramic version (http://www.amazon.com/Pioneer-Pet-6022-Drinking-Fountain/dp/B00329RZFE/) sounds.  So keep that in mind if devices that emit continuous, albeit low volume, sounds bother you.  The cats (I have two) don't seem to mind it at all although one of them did sit and observe the unit in operation from a crouched position for an hour after I first plugged it in.  I purchased it primarily to encourage one of the cats to drink more but haven't noticed an increase in water intake.  I do feel better about the quality of the water that she is taking in.  The included charcoal filter should remove at least some of the residual chemicals in tap water and the flowing fountain keeps the water particle free and fresh.  The unit is &#34;good sized&#34; so keep that in mind if space is an issue.  Of course, a wall outlet needs to be nearby.  I thought that the fountain action would make evaporation an issue but it doesn't appear to be so I only need to top off the water level ever couple of days or so.  I expect to settle into a routine of replacing the entire water supply ever few days or so.  I used to change their water every day or two but now I feel better with the filtration and fountain action keeping the water essentially tap fresh.  Cleaning doesn't look like it's going to be very hard although I did buy the optional cleaning kit which I'll probably use for other items as well.  Having said that, the unit, minus the filter/pump, is solid stainless steel so it is dishwasher safe.All in all, I'm very happy!  I have peace of mind knowing that their water is constantly fresh and clean without having to share my Brita pitcher water with them.  And although the cats, being cats, appear indifferent, I know in my heart that they now gather around &#34;the water cooler&#34; and talk about how nice it is along with other current events.  ;)
5	1357776000	I have a cat who was constantly dipping his paw in the water bowl and splashing it around. I read that this can be caused by the cat not liking the water bowl, or the water not being fresh enough. Since I got this fountain, both of my cats are drinking more. I think they would still prefer it if my dog didn't drink from the same dish, but oh well. The fountain holds lots of water and was very simple to assemble.
5	1357776000	The fountain looks nice and doesn't interfere with our home decor. My cat seems to like drinking from it too.
2	1357776000	Please be aware that the pump has a lever on the side to control the water pressure.  Nothing in the description, instructions or pictures explains this.  I thought the pump was defective.  I requested a &#34;replacement&#34; from Amazon.  However, since this particular one was &#34;fulfilled&#34; by Amazon and not &#34;sold&#34; by Amazon, they would only refund your money after returning the item.  Amazon does sell this item, but not the particular one I got.  Had Amazon &#34;sold&#34; mine, they would have replaced it.  I spent about three hours researching the fountain and reading reviews.  The pump is sometimes an issue.  I learned about the maintenance and ordering a pump replacement, which would almost cost as much as the waterer including the shipping.  The website with the pump &#34;replacement&#34; has a picture that shows a &#34;lever&#34; on the side.  That solved my problem.  In the future I will also be apprehensive when I purchase an item that is fulfilled by Amazon but &#34;sold&#34; by others.
5	1357776000	This is the first time I have purchased a water fountain for my new kitten.This was a very easy product to set up, and you could go to youtube and see a product demo, which was very helpful, since I have to left thumbs when putting products together.It was a snap.It is not loud as some reviewers have said.Very quiet.The stainless steel is perfect for keeping down bacteria, and my new siamese kitten loves it.
5	1357689600	Cats drink from puddles in the street and from the toilet and they are just fine without filters. Reading reviews many have mentioned black residue, mold, rubber smell, etc.  I'm guessing the black residue is from the filter.When I received mine, which was used and at a great price (14.99) I cleaned it to remove any impurities that are connected with factory  processing;  put water and bleach, ran it through a couple of minutes, dumped the solution; added fresh water, dumped and fresh water NO filter. It's clean, no mold, no smells.Cats love it and the price I got it at, makes me love this thing even more.  When I clean it, I also use CLR to remove hard water stains. This is a good quality stainless steel and well weighted, unlike some SS that stain, when using CLR.
5	1357603200	The stainless steel is easy to disassemble and clean; it does not absorb bacteria like plastics.  I chose this one because stainless steel is healthier than plastics, and it looks better in my kitchen - like a sculptured water fountain.After running it for the first time, after a few rotations of water, any residual rubber or machine smells will be gone, as the first reviewer/most helpful reviewer mentioned.Simple Maintenance is key:If the motor and pump are disassembled and cleaned properly, you won't need to replace them; you'll only need to replace filters, which are reasonably priced and well worth it.If you don't clean the motor and  pump well enough or often enough, you will have to purchase a new motor and pump from the Pioneer Pet website (at least they sell it separately, though it's pricey enough to make you think about getting a second fountain.  Maintenance is key to getting 5 star use of this product and keeping its economic value.)My cat has allergies and urinary tract infection tendencies; water is so important for her to prevent these issues.  She drinks the most from this fountain, laying next to it and sopping it up for minutes, than she ever did from the 2 plastic ones we had before (and eventually stopped working).  This fountain has helped keep her healthy, she's so hydrated.It's very quiet and will only get noisy if you let the water level fall below the motor's line.  The noisiness is a sound of the motor's slow death - keep that water filled.Take care of this product (and it doesn't take much; there are easy instructions, even online videos), and your pet will love you for it.  We've had this fountain 2 years this spring. She looks at me with "I love you" after I gave it to her the first time, and after I clean it (every week the bowl @ 5 mins, every month all parts @20 mins).  We both love this fountain. 5 Stars.
1	1357603200	The noise and vibration of the motor is intolerable.  This was probably the most disappointing purchase I have every made.
5	1357603200	My cats love this thing, I would reccommend it to anyone with pets! Even my 18 year old cat drank more water which helped some of her other ailments!
2	1357516800	I really wanted a stainless fountain and my dogs loved it once I set them up. However, after ordering two of these, they both broke within 1 week of using them. The motor just stopped pumping the water for no reason.
4	1357430400	I used to have the 360 drinkwell one in plastic, but it started to grow pick slime-- eww. I wanted to switch to a stainless steel one, but the 360 was too expensive. At first i thought it was too loud-- but then I discovered a trick-- keep it really, really full. If you don't the water sound echos and it is much louder. Oh, and the cat seems to like it too!
3	1357257600	[2012 Jan 4] If I can go back to Wednesday when I decided to buy this one, I'd spend a little more money to buy one that I can adjust the strength of the pump. I used to have a plastic Petmate one for years before I moved to the west coast this month. That one was quiet and strong for 7 years although had lots of issues because it was made of plastic. I bought this new one because it's made of stainless. But it's breaking my nerve with vibration of motor and the sound of randomly splashing water......I sometimes can't understand where companies use the money their earned. Is it so difficult to test those varieties of motors in the world, and find a motor that has just enough power and just enough quietness?[2012 Jan 5] I teared off a strip of plastic from a hummus container, and put it on the pipe. Now there's less water coming out and no more splash sound. Hope this can be a helpful tip for others who might have same issue. The splash sound was terrible because it was irregular and random sound that keeps catching attention. The motor still vibrates but it's consistent background noise that can be ignored -- although it's as loud as fridge if you are in the same room.
5	1357257600	I just received the pet fountain and have no complaints ..  you can only hear it when you are in the same room as it .... it is not loud at all ... the cat was a bit leary at first but took to it right away .We would like to leave out cat with enough food and water for a weekend now and then so this will be perfect for that .. For some reason he will not drink from a bowl of water but developed the habit of drinking mostly from a running faucet.  He seems to like this fountain design for drinking.
4	1357171200	This is very nice- has a good water flow that the cats like - the dogs prefer to drink out of the bowl. its easy to clean and the water stays clean with the large filter and fast water flow. The only complaint i have is that it was super quiet when i first stated using it but hums like a fish tank pump now -its not super loud but noticeable.
4	1357084800	The first fountain I received didn't work at all I received a replacement very quick.  So far so good with this one.  I really like the sleek design and it is super easy to put together.  I think my cats are still indecisive about it but I am sure they will get used to it.
1	1357084800	Muy mal. Funcion&oacute; solo 5 segundos. Despu&eacute;s se estrope&oacute; para no volver a funcionar.No volver&eacute; a comprar nada similar a esto.Un saludo.
4	1357084800	It does what I want it to do - moves the water around so it is more enticing for my picky cat (he is obnoxious about getting water straight from the faucet).  It is easy to take apart and clean - takes me about five minutes to take everything part, rinsed, put back together and refilled.  With three cats using this fountain, it does get slimy despite the carbon filter, and I do need to top it off every day.  This is far less hassle than changing out the water on one big bowl every other day. I'm glad I got this. The pump is rather noisy, though - luckily it blends in somewhat with the noises from my fish tanks, but in a room without fish tanks it could get pretty annoying.
3	1357084800	it worked fine but it is a pita to clean and the cat i have is scared of the noise the pump makes and does not come near the bowl.  Cant blame the bowl for that but my cat hates this thing so i just use it as a bowl and removed the pump.  If you have a doofus cat then dont get this it will be a waste of money.
4	1357084800	Nice sleek design!  Quiet hum, not as noisy as other pet fountains.  Somewhat compact design.  My cats like it so its perfect!
5	1356998400	This is so easy to clean and maintain...love it. The cats like it best when it's full, otherwise it makes a bit of noise. No problem.
4	1356825600	I really like this water fountain.  It's pretty quiet and my cat can't mess with it the way he was able to with other fountains (he used to make horrible messes, thinking it was fun to play with the stream!).  The only downside is that only a few months after having it, the pump died, despite my regular cleaning it.  The company has said they'll send me a new one, though.
5	1356825600	The only thing i would have be different about this product is for it to be made of glass rather than steel, ceramic, or plastic.Chose a 5 because it got here on time, my cat loves it, and my cat is drinking much more water now.  I left the still water bowl out by her food and she snubs it and goes to the other side of the room for her water fountain.
5	1356739200	I've used Drinkwell fountains for my cat and dog for several years now and was constantly buying different models in search of one that would be easy to clean.  The plastic ones were unattractive and would get slimey and the steel one had so many parts and difficult areas to clean.  Then I saw this model.  WELL...I can say wiyhout any hesitation that I finally found the right one!  So easy to clean, runsalmost completely silently, and my pug and cat seem to like the bubbling effect rather than a free falling stream.  Water intake is so important since my cat has urinary tract issues and since it's so easy to clean - it's also the most hygenic fountain I've had.  It's also simply a beautiful addition to my home.
5	1356739200	I was disappointed that it was not quieter.  The pump makes a loud noise that discourages my cats.  My daughter has one and it is much quieter which is why I wanted one.  It needs to be almost overflowing to be quiet and once I added more water it was OK,
2	1356739200	The motor was very noisy and my 3 cats were actuallyafraid to go over and use it because of the noise.Also the actual drinking area is rather small.  I returned thisunit and bought the larger Pioneer Max unit which has amuch quieter motor and larger drinking area.  The catsare fine with it.
2	1356652800	I purchased this product based on the fact that it was stainless steel, and the reviews that stated it to be quiet.  It is a nice design, and my cat seemed to like drinking out of it. However, it was so loud, we could hear it running in the kitchen from our upstairs bedroom.  Annoying.  We sent it back.
5	1356652800	My cat is on special food for urinary issues and it makes him thirsty. This dish holds a lot (generally, 4 days for a cat that drinks A LOT). I also like that it filters the water, since he gets stones and I have slightly hard water where I live. He also seems to drink more (which can really help with cats with urinary issues) than he ever did with his regular bowl. The sound of the fountain is actually very soothing to me as well. Any rattling that I've ever heard was due to it being low on water, or the pump's suction cups not being all the way down on the bowl. Great product and IMO great for my special needs cat. Would definitely buy again.
4	1356566400	I moved away from my plastic pet fountains to this stainless steel because I heard it was so much easier to clean and didn't harbor as much bacteria. Fountain is certainly easy to clean, but doesn't hold as much water as other competing brands. Also surprised me to find that the filter housing was plastic. Motor can get really loud depending on state of the filter, and the pump has smaller openings than competing products. Overall happy with it, but not for multiple day traveling. Requires daily refilling without a separate reservoir.
2	1356393600	The small riser at the edge of the bowl, which makes the entire thing work, is flimsy and broke off immediately at assembly.  This is a great idea, but it is poorly made.  I tried to repair is, but no deal-it broke again.  The design flaw, is fatal.
2	1356393600	My dog is scared of the bowl when it is plugged in. I have no choice but to return it.
5	1356393600	This model fits together than the previous raindrop fountain we had (the ceramic model).  The only drawback seems to be that I feel like I'm adding water more often.  Perhaps the ceramic glaze on the previous model was able to prevent evaporation better than the stainless steel?  This doesn't, however, detract from the fountain's operation or benefits.
4	1355961600	This is the 3rd fountain I've purchased for my cats.  Everyone that I bought was noisy but this one turned out to be a favorite for the cats - they like the bubble at the top and the little stream that flows off the side.  There's a little opening just before the stream goes into the larger bowl and they like to get water from that little opening too.  If it wasn't for the noisy pump, I'd give it 5 stars but honestly, none of these fountains are quiet.  I have found that the larger the fountain the less noise it makes and it's necessary to keep the pump covered with water to keep the noise level down.  Beyond that, pick what you like and learn to tolerate the hum of the pump.
1	1355961600	I purchased this item in August of 2012 and within a couple of months it was a breeding ground for bacteria (despite the fact that I cleaned it within exact specifications of the instruction manual). I have one small cat and I was having to clean this fountain weekly to get all the mold out. To make matters worse, it's not even within the 30 day Amazon return window so I can't get my money back for a defective product. The manufacturer claims a one year warranty but refused to help me as I bought the product from Amazon. Beware when buying this product!!!
5	1355961600	After having plastic electric water bowl, this stainless steel one is welcomed.  Very easy to clean.  Hold a lot of water.  Easy to replace water without spilling.  Not worried about cat developing some type of reaction to dirty plastic.
5	1355875200	Our pets love it and it's super easy to clean. If you don't fill it past the first line, it will never overflow.
5	1355788800	This is a very easy to clean fountain. There is no plastic which my cat has an allergy to. It was inexpensive compared to others that I have seen. He likes the fountain effect, so he drinks more.
5	1355702400	My cats loves that. It's depense a couple of days to them start to use the fountain because they were afraid. Now they drink a lot of water!!!
1	1355702400	I have had this product for several months. In a short time after filling with water the pump fills with black mold and fills the compartment that holds the filter black with mold as well. I tried ordering new sets of filters thinking that might be the problem but it wasn't. I tried cleaning the entire unit, container and pump out more often and that didn't help. It just gets black ugly mold, no matter what I do.Since the return by date has passed, I just decided to throw the thing out and go back to filling a bowl with fresh water daily.
5	1355616000	I've been looking into water fountains for my car and settled on this one.  The major deciding factor being that it's stainless steel.  I love that it's corded, so no batteries are used then thrown out.  Setup is a breeze, and the filter works well,Living in Vancouver, Canada, our tap water is fantastic with very low solutes so a simple filter works well, especially if I use my brita pitcher to fill it. I know my cat is receiving as fresh a water I can give her without worrying about it going stale.The only thing I don't like is that the piece doesn't have an easy way to detach / remove the cord without pulling it right through the hole, so cleaning it means I trail the cord along if I'm too lazy to take it all apart. Other than that, I think this was worth the money.  The steel has a nice weight, so it's not flimsy and I'm not consuming plastic.
5	1355529600	This is the best pet water fountain I've found.  It's quiet, efficient, easy to clean, and the cat loves it.  We've been through three other (plastic) water fountains (different manufacturers and different designs) and none of them worked very well.  They were all hard to clean, water didn't circulate well, and one had a pump that made way too much noise.  The Pioneer fountain is very durable, and exceptionally easy to take apart and clean.  I liked mine so much I bought one as s gift for a family member who recently adopted two cats (they love it too).
2	1355529600	In my small house I can hear the pump in every room.  I find it very annoying and am returning it
3	1355443200	I have odd issues with this fountain I received October 22,2012:  After 3 days I get a film of white slime on the top and "slide" portion.  I've rinsed the filter, cleaned it well including running the pump under cool water and still get the slime buildup.  I use water filtered with a Pur water filter.  My one cat is the only one using this fountain.  I'll continue to wash all parts thoroughly every three days.  If anyone has any suggestions, I'll sign up for follow up emails with this review.
4	1355443200	Easy to clean and the noise does not bother us. My dog wasn't used to running water before this, he has adjusted to it fine.
4	1355443200	For the most part, it works great. It's very easy to take apart and clean although I can't find the instructions for dismantling the motor.  We have 4 cats. When we first got it, Kitty took to it immediately. Cleo and Caesar stared at it in horror and Rocky hid under the bed. But within a week, all of them were perfectly content to drink from it.  And given that the water level goes down pretty quickly (and it's not on the floor), they are drinking. We also have a pool out back and I know the cats drink from that as well so I can't really tell how much they each drink.  And no, there is absolutely no way you can convince a cat to stop drinking from the pool. I gave up.The water does get slimy. That would probably happen no matter what kind of dish you have unless it gets washed daily. I take it completely apart once a week, very easy to do, wash it all in warm soapy water, put it back together and then run water with a bit of bleach in it for about 10 minutes. Then empty it all out and run clean water through it and finally dump that out and fill it with clean water.  That's just my paranoia about the filter. I want to make sure nothing is growing in there and of course you can't clean inside the filter itself.My only complaint is that is vibrates and hums. I have it on the lowest setting and I set it on a towel so that it wasn't vibrating on the tile but I can hear it across the house.  It's "white noise" so I usually tune it out but sometimes it just insists on increasing the volume and I find that I have to smack it to get it to quiet down. I assume its the metal lid vibrating on the body. I haven't come up with a way to muffle it yet.In spite of that, i like it better than a water dish with stagnant water in it.Oh, and as noted by other readers, you really do have to "top off" the water daily because when it gets about 1/3 down it starts sputtering.  It tells me when I've forgotten because it gets rather loud.  I add about 1-2 cups of water per day.
3	1355356800	Was pleased with the item but never got my replacement filters...printer went bad so i couldn't print out a confirmation #  ordered a couple of months ago and ..never. got themalso cannot find the instruction booklet for the part #
4	1355356800	I loved this fountain and really hoped my cat would use it.It is hygienic as it ias stainless steel, easy to clean and set up, has easily changed filters, is not too noisy, and holds a lot of water. Unfortunately my  very stubborn  calico holds out to drink from the bathtub faucet.  I think most people with &#34;normal&#34; animals will find this an excellent fountain. Maybe if the fountain  had a design  more similar to an ordinary faucet my cat would have found it more attractive.
4	1355356800	This has been a puzzlement until I realized it has to be kept very full or it does not work. Why have something that holds as much water so that supposedly you would not have to fill it so frequently (with 2 cats twice a day) if even a slight lowering of the water level means it does not work. When full it is fabulous! The kittens at first played a lot so the level was always down, or I did not begin by filling to the brim and it did not flow as I expected it would. I tried so many things until I figured out the secret. Unfortunately I do not feel I could leave even for overnight with this as their water supply.
5	1355270400	Perfect product, simple and clean design, works as promised.  Two Stainless steel parts: Top & Bottom easy clean, with a pump inside which contains the filter.  Easy clean and easy maintenance. A great item and my cat loves it!
1	1355184000	Well, overall I like the design and so does the cat, but the loud rumbling, sounding like a huge fish tank motor, makes it a purchase that I will probably unplug and not use. The cat gets bothered by it also - sometimes.Just too loud!
5	1355184000	Background:I've had my eye on this fountain for a couple months and only recently pulled the trigger on it. I have a 1 yr old black short-hair cat that's been drinking out of a small ceramic bowl since I got him in April. It was one of those sets that came with two bowls and an elevated stand that had rings the bowls sat in/on. Having these bowls that close to each other led to a lot of transfer of tiny food bits that would foul up the water quicker than I could change it. Also, I have to admit, it does get tedious making sure the water is always fresh and plentiful. My cat seems to stop drinking once the bowl gets half full so this only led me to the conclusion that I need something bigger and probably automatic with a filter. Now that the back story is done, on to the review.What drew me to this over the more popular drink well varieties was the look, sleek and modern with a stainless steel finish that would do a good job at keeping germs at bay too. Additionally, this was a tad cheaper as well as the replacement filters and with a great return policy through Amazon I figured the risk was worth a try. I ordered the product last Thursday and with free shipping (5-8 days) I received it much earlier, just this past Monday so I was already off to a good start. The parts inside the box were nicely wrapped in a paper covering, much like the material you stuff gift bags with and that was fine to protect the stainless steel finish; no scratches to report. After unboxing and reading through the directions (2 pages only!) it seemed that this was going to be a quick, easy setup (spoiler - it was).Set Up:The only real technical part of the setup was securing the motor inside the cavity of the motor/filter case(all really obvious when you get it). The motor has two suction cups on the bottom that when pressed firmly inside the plastic guide in the cavity secures it very well. Then you take the included filter (after you let it stay under a cold stream of water from your faucet (as per the directions)) and place it on the curved part of the motor/filter case (another very obvious location). The wire that comes from the now-secured motor is snaked through the back of the motor/filter case and there is a small slit that the wire can slide into to allow the motor/filter case to snap shut. Mind you, it was important to properly secure the motor in the correct rotation because the top of the motor/filter case has a plastic spout that needs to be placed on top of the similar spout that is on the top of the motor (for blowing the air to create the fountain effect). Once again, this is all very simple and obvious to fix as I needed to take a second and line up the two spouts correctly.Now with the assembly of the motor/filter case complete, the next step is placing the case into the bottom of the fountain which has a faint stamped outline to give an estimate of the placement area. Once you press firmly on the case (it has suction cups on the bottom of the case) it is secure. Note that you may need to slightly adjust the placement even within the stamped outline because the next step is placing the top part of the fountain on top of the bottom which sits nicely on a raised edge. Once again, you need to align the spout opening of the top part of the fountain with the spout of the case; hence needing to make a very slight adjustment in the positioning of the motor/filter case. There is another small hole on the back of the top part of the fountain that you snake the rest of the power wire through which ultimately you insert into the block-style plug.After filling the fountain with water up within a half-inch of the top, its time to plug into the outlet and let it do its thing. The pump started right away though the directions say it might take a minute or two to start running. I never changed the speed of the pump from its factory default setting and the noise of the motor was pretty non-existent. When you have a TV on normal volume or just having a conversation in the vicinity of the fountain, its barely audible and even at that sound level, it just becomes faint background noise.My Impressions:After it was up and running, I took his old water bowl and washed/dried it and filled it up with food as a secondary food bowl. My cat does not overeat so leaving that much food allows doesn't concern me with him overeating and if he does I'll just adjust the food level I leave in the morning. He warmed up to the fountain right away, naturally curious of course. What surprised me was that he went right to the fountain (top part where the pump is, well pumping the water) and the slide part and after a few initial paws at the water stream, started drinking and drinking and drinking. I haven't seen him drink from the basin part which is most similar to his old set up of just a water bowl so it makes me think that the running water parts is more natural to him, even after all these months of a plain, dumb water bowl.Another thing that intrigued me, and I may have missed it in the product details, is that it makes the water cold and keeps it cold. It isn't freezing by any means but definitely a good amount below room temperature. I assume this might promote more drinking since it probably makes the water less stale in taste (in addition to the filter). When I woke up this morning and came downstairs, there he was drinking from the top of the fountain again.At the end of the day, I can't guarantee that this will make your cat drink more water but it at least gives the impression that he is more interested in it to say the least. The coolness of water's temperature probably makes it more attractive to drink while the 3 drinking options can't hurt to foster more drinking (top of fountain/slide/basin). What matters to me is that I feel better about the quality of the water (having a filter) I am giving him and the fact that he took to it so quickly and still seems to be OK with the change. The instructions are clear, also telling you how to properly replace the filter, change pump settings and how to clean the motor itself if it becomes sluggish.It's an attractive piece of machinery and is actually smaller (in a good way) than I thought it would be. I can definitely envision this being OK to use with a two-cat household while 3 may be stretching it. I bought this with an extra 3-pack of filters so that should last me at least 4 months with a monthly change.In conclusion, for the price I paid (less than 40$), this is one of the cheaper cat-fountain models but it definitely does not cut any corners in the quality of the product and the results, at least in my case. As previously mentioned but worth repeating, the peace of mind it brings knowing that he has a constant source of clean, cold fresh water is worth the price alone.If you have any questions, don't hesitate to ask as I highly recommend this particular fountain-bowl.
5	1355184000	I have only had this fountain for a couple of weeks, but my cat loves it.  It took him a few days to start using it, but now he is drinking lots of water!  Works great so far.
2	1355097600	Although this is easier to clean, my cats don't like to drink from it.  The motor is very loud if its not kept completely full. I used Drinkwell products for years but they're so much work to clean.  Looks like its back to Drinkwell to keep the kitties happy.
5	1355097600	This is the fourth cat water fountain I've purchased. My criteria this time was an easy to clean fountain. I've found this one to be almost effortless in cleaning and really love it - so far the best of the 4 cat fountains by far.  Of my two Persian cats, one drinks from the fountain and the other drinks from the well. I would prefer a cat fountain that doesn't have the well exposed since that water is the unfiltered area and may have floating cat hair, etc, while the fountain provides clean filtered water.  That is going to be my next fountain if anyone even makes it and is easy to clean. (I've got a catit but is not easy to clean).  However, if power goes out and we are not home for a day, at least the cats can drink from the well side!Overall I highly recommend this unit.
2	1354924800	I bought this product the first week of August. The cats seemed to enjoy the flowing water and ignored other water sources available to them. I gave the machine a thorough cleaning and replaced the filter each month. Here it is the first week of December and the pump has quit working altogether. I didn't expect for this to be a disposable product. The fact that a replacement pump was listed along with add-ons such as filters and brushes should have been a clue I suppose.
5	1354838400	I have had this for over a year now and it works great!  I have never had a problem with it splashing out and my cat loves it.  Had a plastic bowl and my cat got feline acne, so i switch to this and it all cleared right up!  my cat loves it and will drink out of the top where the water comes out.  Great buy.
3	1354838400	Pros: Its a lot bigger than the pictures suggest. Pump seems quite and you can take it apart to cleanCons: Its a lot bigger than the pictures suggests.The stainless steel seems to be of low quality.If the pump last longer than the last fountain I bought I might up this to 4 startsUpdate:  my cat never used it.  Turns out the pump runs really warm so the water was very warm and that was something my cat was not to happy about
5	1354838400	Just love this fountain!  Easy to clean and my cat can't tip it over!  My oldest cat tends to &#34;dig&#34; at his water dish so water goes splashing everywhere.  The Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop Design is heavy enough that he can't splash water on the floor.  It is also VERY easy to clean.  I also like that it has the running water slide feature as well as a regular place they can drink out of.
5	1354752000	I am in love with this fountain. I bought it for my pup who was starting to show crystal formation in his urine because he wasnt drinking enough water. He loves drinking out of th fountain portion, the water flow definitely captures his attention. The water is clean, fresh, and kept cold when I put ice cubes in it. THis was a great purchase and it was definitely worth the $$ seeing as though It has prevented any type of surgery for stones.
4	1354665600	Only had it about a month, but it is pretty quiet and the cats like it. Get's a little noise when the water is low, but that's just a reminder to refill it. A slight pain to clean due to the way the cord attaches, but not too bad.
5	1354665600	Fantastic - my pets love them and they are soooooeasy to clean. I now have 5 in my home and I will not buy anything else but these
4	1354665600	Giving it 4-stars because I'm not sure if it is the bowl or my cat getting water on the floor sometimes. It has definately made my finiky cats drink more water, which they were not getting enough of. It is very easy to clean, I clean mine once a week since I work full time and go to college full time. Everyone comments on how cool it looks when they see it too. I'm very happy with this purchase (Owned for 3 months now)
1	1354579200	My cat loves to drink at the tap. I don't like to share my sink with her when I use it. The specifications of the product was to resolve this dilemma. Nice product, stainless steel. The package when received raised the curiosity of the family. Included the cat.But when I mounted it, the disappointment was at the level of our previous hopes :- Very, very noisy ( brrr, cling cling, bzzzz) which afraid our cat. Two days after she got used to the noise but not us. We deported the instrument  at the corner of the kitchen which is a pretty noisy environment during the daylight.- The day after, the pump became furious and the water overflowed on the wooden floor. Bad. Bad. We put the miracle fountain in a inside a metal tray. Meanwhile our cat made shy attempts to drink ( we close all others opportunities of current water she was used to use) ... but she drank the spilled water in the tray where we put the fountain.- The day after and many times the pump was capricious : no sprinkles  alternated with unexpected geysers. The cat refused to drink and we had to re-open the taps of the sinks. ( she probably asked herself why we are so complicated).Conclusions : useless, noisy,  not reliable but good marketing, The smart cat asked us obviously to rate 1 star. So we do. The miracle fountain lies in the attic, expecting a future garage sales.
4	1354579200	My cat was a little terrified of it at first.  Now that she is use to it she drinks tons of water! It was very easy to set up and is very easy to clean.  For my cat to use it I have to set the fountain to the lowest setting.  I am not sure if it is noisy because I have the fountain on a tile floor, or if it is just noisy.  It is not too bad. If I have the TV on you can not hear it too much and you can only hear it if you are in the same room.  However there is a constant hum coming form the fountain.  A friend of mine has a similar pet well fountain, that makes no noise.  I am going to try putting a rubber mat under it to see if that helps!
2	1354492800	Although our cats drink 2X as much as they would without this product (urine litter balls reduced 50% when using water dish alone)the product is not resilient. I have had to replace the housing now 2X in just 2 years due to the plastic suction cups breaking off. They do not just sell you replacement suction cups but make you buy the housing as well which is more expensive.  The unit requires more daily cleaning then indicated. It will easily get shimmy inside housing for motor and motor parts. I adjusted to the high cleaning maintenance of this since it increased their water intake but this last suction cup failure after only 3 months since the last replacement has sold me on looking for another product. Buyer beware!
5	1354406400	I have two cats. The male cat has had really bad urinary issues over the last 6 months. The vet recommended buying a fountain to get him to drink more water. The only problem I faced was that he is afraid of EVERYTHING!! I bought a Drinkwell Platinum fountain that he was afraid of but my other cat loves it. Well, I bout him this pioneer fountain and he took to it right away! The water flow is just right and he started drinking from it the moment I set it up. It's super easy to assemble and clean. If you have a nervous cat and need him to drink more water, get this fountain!
5	1354320000	THIS IS THE FIRST PRPODUCT I HAVE EVER REALLY WANTED TO REVIEW. WE RESCUED TWO KITTENS 3 YEARS AGO AND THEY HAVE HAD A PROBLEM WITH WATER BOWLS FROM THE BEGINNING.  THEY PUSHED THEM OFF COUNTERS, ALL AROUND THE FLOOR, ANY WHERE AND EVERY WHERE.  ALWAYS SPILLING WATER AND MAKING A HUGE MESS.  WE HAVE A DOUBLE SINK IN THE KITCHEN AND FINALLY PUT A WATER BOWL IN ONE HALF SO WHEN THE CATS SPILLED THE WATER AT LEAST IT WAS ALREADY IN THE SINK.  WE USED THE OTHER HALF OF THE SINK FOR US.  NOT ANY MORE.  SINCE WE GOT THIS FOUNTAIN THE CATS HAVE NOT SPILLED ANY WATER.  ONE DRINKS STRAIGHT OUT OF THE TOP WHERE THE WATER BUBBLES UP AND THE OTHER ONE DRINKS OUT OF THE STILL BOWL AREA.  THEY CAN BOTH DRINK AT THE SAME TIME SO NO MORE CAT FIGHTS OVER THE WATER BOWL.  EASY TO CLEAN.  I TAKE IT APART AND PUT THE STAINLESS STEEL PARTS IN THE DISHWASHER ONCE A WEEK.  WATER PROBLEM FINALLY SOLVED.  WISH IT HAD NOT TAKEN 3 YEARS TO TRY THIS.
5	1354233600	I have three cats and could not be happier with the Pioneer Stainless steel pet fountain.Easy to clean, the easiest fountain that I have ever had.Noise, well, if you do not get the cover in the exact place that it needs to be you will hear a louder noise. Otherwise it is quiet "enough", not silent, however not irritating and loud..One of my cats likes to bat at the stream before drinking from it, my other two will drink from the stream and the still section of it.I love the fact that it is not plastic which can harbor bacteria .No, the top section  is not heavy but I have not had one of my cats knock off the top .I like the filters also, kinda "v" shaped and fit inside of the Plastic case along side the pump.So far this fountain is the " cats meow "....and I will be buying another one soon....
3	1354233600	So far I am giving the bowl 3 stars. As far as quietness I give it 5 stars. IMPORTANT: If you hearing a buzz that's because you haven't filled the bowl up enough! I got a loud buzz sound initially but once I filled up the bowl high enough the buzz disappeared. Only thing I hear now is a quiet water sound like from a fountain, it's actually kind of relaxing.Now here is the problem, I haven't seen the cats drink from it! One just stares at it, the other seems almost scared of it. So I don't know what to do at this point to get them to drink from it... maybe with time they'll want to but for now they won't (neither will the dog for that matter). If they do end up drinking from it I will update this review.
2	1354233600	This particular fountain is too loud - the pump is noisy (thus making cats reluctant to approach it). The lid sits on top of the base neatly, but since both are made from metal, the vibration of the pump make a rattling sound.
4	1354147200	Very easy to assemble, relatively quiet, looks good, few parts, happier with this than my older plastic version (another manufacturer's).
2	1354060800	My vet recommended that I switch to metal food and water bowls because my 2 cats developed cat acne.  I liked the looks of these drinking fountains, so I bought one of these in late summer.  After 6 weeks the pump failed.Thinking I might have a rare defective pump, I threw good money after bad and ordered another complete set.  I did this because a replacement pump from the manufacturer was $18, but with Amazon Prime, I could get another bowl plus pump for about $37.  Since the bowls are covered, I use the second bowl without the pump to reduce evaporation and help prevent dust from blowing into it.  However, the second pump also failed after 6 weeks, despite the constant care I took to be sure that the water level was never too low.Save your money and buy a metal mixing bowl to use for your cats with feline acne.  That way your electric bill won't go up and you won't feel cheated.
5	1353974400	Alpha cat (the one who refuses to drink from a water bowl) ignored this fountain for a good month. Beta cat loved it right away, but she's the one that loves everything, including drinking water from a regular bowl. Patience paid off, Alpha cat finally started drinking from it now and then (he still likes the running faucet best). It's very quiet and holds a lot of water. I don't have to refill it for about 3 days, then it becomes louder because of the low water level. I purchased the water filters with Amazon's Subscribe & Save to save a few bucks over time. I think it looks nice too. No problems. I would recommend this for even the most finicky cat.
1	1353974400	I specifically ordered this because of the reviews here which said it was "quiet".  Not so!!  At least the pump on mine was annoyingly 'buzzy' and I returned it.  This is the second fountain I have bought from Pioneer Pets.  All have noisy pumps I have so far found. I even called them in the past and they sent me another pump.  Noisy.  Don't waste your money or time if you truly want a "quiet" fountain
4	1353974400	I bought the pet fountain to try to encourage my 2 cats to drink more.  I would say that maybe it has helped, but I am not really sure.  Both of them were reluctant at first, but after a few days, I saw each of them drink from it at times.  I was hoping my female cat would find it interesting, since she is such a curious, playful cat.  She was actually afraid of it at first, took a few days before she tried.  It didn't intrique her the way I was hoping it would.  I am still glad I bought it, since I feel it keeps the water fresh, and plenty of water available at all times.
5	1353974400	I bought 2 of these. The second was a gift for a friend who admired it. I had a plastic version before and there's no comparision. The SS is heads and shoulders above it.
5	1353974400	My cat loves this dish and I love the fact that it does not look dirty like the plastic fountains did!  Put it in the dishwater and it cleans up nicely.
4	1353888000	I can't decide how many stars to give. I'd give five stars, except for the noise factor. It's a good size. It's good quality. It's easy to put together. (Just make sure you line up the clam shell properly with the hole in the top.) It's very easy to clean. My cats like it, but not as much as I thought they would. They notice the noise as much as I do. The pump motor is loud. I want to give it one star. I read the other reviews and thought,"How loud could it possibly be?" For such a tiny thing, it makes a very loud hum. I can hear it all through my not small apartment. I think it's the noise that is deterring my cats from loving it. They love running water and haven't shown much interest in the fountain, even after a week. Who can guess what a cat will like? Today, I removed the lid and just have the base and the clam shell pump, to see if that makes a difference. By doing so, the pump is bubbling more, and the babbling sound is covering some of the hum. So, you can decide for yourself. Believe the reviews. It would be a great product with a quieter pump motor.
4	1353888000	The cats love getting fresh water out of this fountain, but it is noisy! I had to adjust the motor speed several times and vary the amount of water before the fountain mechanism would actually work the first time. Overall, I feel better that my cats are noticeably drinking more fresh water, but wish the unit wasn't so noisy.
4	1353888000	The fountain is easier to clean and reassemble and the fountain works after reassembly, unlike our previous unit. Our vet recommended stainless and our cat seems to enjoy the fountain.Our pump stopped working despite weekly cleaning of the unit. The pump itself can easily be disassembled and cleaned in minute and this normally fixes the problem. See the manufacture's video on YouTube.
2	1353801600	I was really happy with the first raindrop fountain I purchased in June 2012, so I purchased another one later in the summer.  I have a cat who has kidney problems, and he needs to drink as much water as possible.  He really loved these fountains, and I loved the fact that I could take it apart and clean it in the dishwasher- that was the main reason I bought this particular fountain.  I kept them in good shape and cleaned them every couple of weeks and replenished the water nearly every day.However, the motor on the first on failed a couple of months ago, and the second one burned out this week.  I am very disappointed with the performance of these fountains.  I have contacted customer service at Pioneer Pet to see if they will replace the motors.  I may modify how many stars this review has based on the response I receive from them.
1	1353628800	I bought this fountain to encourage my cats to drink more water.  My male cat has has some bladder stone issues in the past.  After reading the reviews, I selected this fountain.  I liked the stainless steel design which is better for preventing chin acne.  In short, I was disappointed in this product.  The pump is loud, and after a 10 second curious look, my cats have not come within 10 feet of the fountain since.  I hope to return it.
2	1353628800	Bought 2 for our both homes for one cat.  The stainless steel was easily cleanable, but the motors, in both, stopped working after a week.  We went back to out plastic ones, harder too clean, but never stop working.
5	1353628800	This water fountain is great. I really wanted a stainless steel model instead of bacteria-harboring plastic, and this one is nearly all stainless except for the pump (good luck finding that in anything besides plastic!).Our cats are drinking noticeably more, which really was the point. This model is quiet and still circulates a high rate of water. The constant flow of water attracts our cats and keeps the water fresh.The downsides: stainless steel shows water spots quickly and the plastic pump is a bit of a pain to disassemble to clean. I fill it with filtered water which reduces the mineral deposits and keeps the filter going for longer.
1	1353542400	It's too bad the motor is annoyingly loud.  It seems to be a nice idea, but you have to keep filling the water all the way to the top in order to soften the motor noise.  I couldn't return it since it had been opened, so I really made a bad decision.
5	1353456000	This is the most practical, quietest, and easiest to clean fountain that I have tried. I and my cats are very satisfied with it. (I have not tried the Drinkwell 360 Pet Fountain, however. It appears well designed).This design is the easiest to align for maximum silent running. You can see the white housing from the side to position your hands and manipulate the pump housing so that it is perfectly aligned with the rubber spout in the lid. If you sight down the lid spout you can adjust the alignment by moving the housing from the side or forward and backward. It is a bit awkward at first but practice makes perfect. Any misalignment can cause vibration which is the source of noise. Having the metal lid vibrate against the metal bowl is noisy. Make certain that the housings are pressed firmly down when aligned, so that their rubber suction cups remain firmly in place. You may need to do this occasionally if it has vibrated loose. It is the first thing to do if you suddenly have noise after a period of quiet running. This does not seem to happen often.The pump is inside this white filter-pump housing. It requires dis-assembly to clean. I use an old fork tine to pry off the pump housing parts, then a tooth brush, Q Tip, and a tooth pick to clean in the tight spaces. I also soak everything for a minute or so in water containing a splash of Clorox, then rinse and dry, realign, and fill. My pumps has lasted for years. I do not know why so many people are now saying theirs give out so soon. Have they changed how they are made? Are they clogged from lack of cleaning?  They seem so simple. Mine have always worked well (even in the cheap fountains) and appear to be the same little black pumps used in aquariums.The stainless fountain is easy to clean and sterilize. It should last a long time and pay for itself over and over. If you have hard water you may prefer to pre-filter the water to prevent unsightly hard water accumulations which are difficult to clean. Using LimeAway to remove them prevents scratching of the finish and is a lot easier than scrubbing. Just be sure it is rinsed well afterward. Using bottled purified steam iron water is an option also. It might be a good idea to give water containing some minerals occasionally, however. (I offer water from the tap in a bowel. It quickly acquires a film of fuzz which the cats appear to find objectionable). If I run out of replacement filters, I use a piece of pantyhose to wrap around half of the old filter housing after cleaning it. That will collect the fuzz from the water and rinses out easily. The charcoal is not really necessary as I use pre-filtered water which has no objectionable taste. My three cats usually require about a glass of water refill a day so that the pump has adequate depth of water not to make a sucking noise.Water containers require regular cleaning or there will be growth of objectionable slime, mold, mildew, algae, bacteria, etc. That is not because the fountain is defective. Pets must use their mouths to clean themselves and explore their environment. Their mouths carry various pathogens to the fountain where the water provides a medium for growth, which can make your pet ill unless you maintain cleanliness. A small colony left in the pump innards or elsewhere will quickly reinfect your freshly cleaned water. That is why I use the Clorox and small tools to eradicate growth in corners and small places.Another good tip is to use a waterproof mat with a raised edge under the fountain. There will be occasional mysterious splashes, and even a substantial amount of water outside the fountain will be a small matter, when contained by a good mat. I have an old Omega Paw mat which has contained every spill and protected the floor and wall. It spent years outside in the sun before that and is still like new. It holds a lot of water when necessary. Spills have become very rare as I have become more proficient. Or, perhaps the cats are not as interested in using the fountain as a toy. I never have discovered the cause of the spills.
4	1353369600	I used to have a plastic fountain for my cats, but it was difficult to keep clean.  This one is easy, and can be put right in the dishwasher.  My cats were a little thrown at first by the particular way the water moves in this fountain, but they got used to it very fast, and they love it.  The dog likes it, too!
5	1353369600	I will start by giving a brief background. I currently have one cat, a Bengal. His food and water dishes prior to this purchase were both stainless steel bowls, nothing fancy. I initially purchased this product after reading several reviews of people with cats addicted to running faucets and bath tubs. My cat fits this perfectly. With his prior bowl, my cat drank about 1/2 a bowl (1/4 cup or so), each day. I gave him fresh water daily, and cleaned the bowl each time.After using this product for over a month, here are my results:My 1st impression was not that good. I filled the water up to the recommended level, plugged in the pump, and it was LOUD. It was loud enough to scare my cat back (2) feet, and sounded like it was vibrating the floor. I was not impressed. I left home, with the bowl still running, for about an hour. Upon my return the bowl was all but silent, and my cat was drinking like a champ right from the fountain of the bowl. (There are (3) options for the cat to drink: 1) From the fountain on top, 2) from where the water drips into the bottom bowl, and 3) from the calm area where you add water to.)My cat not consumes about 1-1.5 cups of water per day. He is still addicted to the faucet running, but I can see a noticible diffence in how much water he drinks.As far as cleaning, I've had mixed feelings. The bowl and parts for the most part come apart and are easy to clean, however, I have city water, and I found that if I didn't clean the top stainless piece for a week or so, I would get a horrible buildup of lime or calcium down the water track that was nearly impossible to remove.I am overall quite happy, and have already recommended this to friends.
5	1353283200	This has been an excelent solution to making sure our cat Francine drinks her daily share of water.  She drinks more water now than she did what the standards water bowl.  She loves to drink from the bubling stream and from time to time drinks from the pond area.  It ensures that she's getting enough water througout the day and ensures that urinary tract infections are kept at bay.  Make sure the motor and the top cover are aligned correctly to maximize water bubling flow.  Also we had to turn the intensity up on the motor to bubble up more freely.  Bad thing about the unit is when it gets low with water, its very loud.  Lucky for us it's not in our common area, but in our laundry room and that our cat doesn't mind it because she's hearing impaired.Of course we have to clean her litter box more often, but we have a healthy, "water-drinking" cat!
5	1353283200	- very easy to clean (so much better than that other brand)- even though the cat prefers a waterfall, he adapted nicely to this bubbler style.  He usually drinks directly from the bubbler area, sometimes from the "ramp".  Before this, the cat would only drink out of the bathtub faucet.- the cord disconnects from the plug-in.  It sounds like a trivial thing, but it's a nice convenience that the plug-in isn't dragging along when you clean it.- it's quiet.  I had the waterfall kind before this and the sound of that drove me nuts, I had to get rid of it.  This one is much quieter.- some reviews complain about a vibration noise.  I have experienced that a couple times but a little wiggle of the top has always stopped the noise.- Some also complain about splashing.  I haven't had any problem with this.  There is an adjustment on the pump so you can turn it down.  I keep my pump on low.- The dog also likes it.  She drinks out of the bowl.  The bowl has a fairly small opening.  It's plenty big for a small dog, probably ok for a medium dog, maybe too small for a large dog.- The outside is shiny stainless.  The inside of the bowl is matte.  It gives it a very nice look.- The cord comes out of the back and is very easy to hide.
4	1353196800	Good product, slight hum when less than full to the brim. Beautiful. Cat enjoys it, so do I. Stainless reduces the chances of your cat having allergic responses to the fountain, decreases chances of feline acne.
5	1353196800	This is my second fountain. My first one was ceramic, but I wanted the stainless design as soon as it was available. The pieces of the stainless fountain seem to fit better and the water flows a little better through the opening into the reservoir.The cats love having a running water source!One word of caution though. I don't know if the cats are drinking more water because they have a fountain or if it's more prone to evaporation, but the water level seems to drop faster than in a plain bowl. Therefore keep a water bottle nearby so you can top it off daily. Otherwise you run the risk of running the fountain dry which it probably not good for the pump. It ran dry the other day and the pump made a screeching noise I could hear outside the house. I unplugged it and let it cool down a bit, washed it and the fountain out. I set it all up again expecting the pump to fail, but it worked again, good as new! I wouldn't let this happen again, but I think this speaks to the quality of the pump. Great product!
5	1353110400	After reading the reviews, even with the negatives, I felt like it was the fountain I wanted. While it took a bit of finagling to get it together, I'm thrilled. Our two cats took to it immediately and haven't attempted to mess with the top, so the difficulties mentioned in some of the reviews haven't been a problem for me. The fountain is quiet, even sitting on the tile hearth of our fireplace and is easy to clean. Doesn't get better than this for me.
2	1353024000	Our cats seemed to enjoy it and it sure was easy to clean, but the pump died very quickly.  I'm going back to Drinkwell - the pump dies, but I always get at least a year out of it.
3	1352851200	Really like the design and it seems very simple and functional, but the humming of the motor is too loud and we found ourselves unplugging it when we were in the upstairs of our house (which, granted, is an open floor plan so noise travels more easily from the kitchen area where the water fountain was located to our den).  If you have the fountain somewhere that's already got a lot of ambient noises or if you're not super sensitive to noise then I'd say go for it, but if you're looking for quiet, don't get this item.
3	1352764800	It's noisier than I expected, but otherwise works fine. Our cats use it daily and we refill it about every 3rd day.
2	1352764800	Something is wrong but I don't know what!  I got all the prep done and put it together.  I am not certain what the problem is, but the water in not coming out where it should be.  The instructions are no detailed enough to cover the alignment of the cover with the motor below it.  No help was available over the weekend I experienced the trouble and I have been too busy to get back to the fountain. The good news is that the dog likes to drink from this very expensive bowl, even though it is not working.
5	1352764800	My four cats love this fountain and it is very easy to clean. Shipped quickly and arrived on time, no problems.
4	1352764800	I ordered this product hoping that it would be the last pet fountain I would have to buy, having already purchased two others that malfunctioned and/or leaked.  This has been a good purchase so far, and I have had it for three weeks.  It does NOT leak, nor do I see a lot of splashing that other people noted.  I don't have the valve open all the way, which helps.  My cats and my dog drink a lot more water, I've noticed, too.  It is easy to keep clean, and I just wash everything once a week, and take apart the pump to clean the parts.  It seems to be really well made too.  My only complaint is that there is no reservoir that adds clean water, and that is why I only gave it 4 stars.  The fountain just recirculates the same water.  Not a big deal, since I find I have to add water most every day, my pets are drinking more water now.  Small price to have to pay.
1	1352592000	Doesnt work if you live in Australia :(, wish I knew that before I bought it, I dont want have to pay for another connection.
5	1352160000	Came quickly, followed instructions & put together and didn't work. Tried and tried then went online and figured out what was up. Is working fine now. Cats still a little leary of it but starting to use it. I like it. Hope they get more comfortable with it!
4	1351987200	I bought the stainless steel water fountain to replace the plastic one I had that kept making horrible noises and would stop working all the time, despite the fact that I cleaned it regularly and used only filtered water. This new stainless steel fountain style water bowl has been great! I've had it almost two months. The fountain in the middle actually works like a real fountain, as the water slightly rises up, there is also a "calm" side. I have two cats, one drinks from the fountain spout and the other from the still side. They seem to have taken to it easily. I bought the extra filters so I wouldn't have to do it later. So far I'm really happy with this product. It's also nice looking to have in your home, a very modern look.
3	1351814400	Before having the stainless steel pioneer pet fountain I had the drinkwell 360 (but the plastic one).I liked the drinkwell but after I realized the issues with plastic container I decided to move to a stainless steel one. I wasn't sure if I would buy the stainless steel drinkwell 360 or the pioneer pet. After reading the reviews about the pioneer I decided to get the pioneer. So here the list of things between those two:Pros on pioneer vs drinkwell 360- pioneer bowl is very easy to clean, drinkwell 360 is a little tough because it has several wholes and hard to reach parts BUT if you have the stainless steel version of drinkwell 360 you just need to put on the dishwasher and you're done!- on pioneer you can see when the bowl need to be cleaned from the top where the water flows through. Drinkwell 360 you need to watch close the bottom of the bowl or check touching the sides to see if calcium or slime start to attach on the bowl- pioneer bowl is easy to assemble/unassemble. I would say drinkwell 360 is a little bit more but it's not so much drama, unless you got one that the cone is difficult to set on the bowl (which was the problem I had on the plastic version)Cons on pioneer- the whole filter components (from the filter itself till the pump and the filter case which is inside the bowl) are all plastic, so there is no much point on having a stainless steel fountain.This means that you are just minimizing the growth of bacteria with the stainless steel bowl, you still can have the issue on the filter components which are not dishwasher safe (so no sanitizing via dishwasher).What I do is to clean very well everything and run hot water on the bowl inside the sink just to sanitize before I put back with fresh cold water for the dogs.On the other side, I saw on Amazon a glass filter and dishwasher safe for drinkwell 360. You need to buy the the charcoal filter specific for that which you can find at amazon. The filter can be a little expensive, but for a long term it will save you money and also you can guarantee you are using a non-plastic component.Note that even for the drinkwell 360 the pump is plastic as well- the size of the bowl on pioneer is very low capacity. I would say you fill up about 1/3 of gallon and if you fill up close to the edge of the bowl you may end up with water on the floor. The drinkwell 360 has a larger capacity, I would say close to the double of capacity of the pioneer- filter case is a little hard to clean on pioneer. On drinkwell, there is no case for the filter, it's only the filter and the pump inside the bowl, so its one less thing to be worried.Conclusion: I'm not upset with pioneer but when it breaks the next I'll buy is the stainless steel drinkwell 360 with the glass filter. At the time I bought the pioneer I didn't know about the size of the bowl and also didn't know drinkwell had a glass dishwasher safe filter.
3	1351728000	UPDATE -- Here I am seven months after my purchase (June 2013) and have downgraded my rating to three stars.  Other reviewers commented on this point which I have to agree -- hard water (even with an electronic softener) stains the stainless steel.  I was unable to clean these marks with any cleaning product I tried.  So after six months, this was not so attractive sitting on my counter.  Also surprising to me is that I found the sound of the motor (tiny as it may be) causes a strange vibration in the metal which is quite loud.  Keeping the bowl filled to the brim with water negates it, but it does keep reoccurring.  That is a negative for me.  And also after six months of use, the motor ceased working.  Poor quality.BUT as a result - and still liking this design overall - I purchased the white ceramic version and am much happier.  I've posted a review under that model which deserves the 5 star review.
5	1351641600	I am so happy with this fountain! It is a nice compact size - stays clean - and so far it has worked perfectly. It is not silent, but this does not bother me. The fact that it offers different options for my cat to drink from is great!
5	1351555200	This is the best water fountain I have found for my cats! Easy to clean and more sanitary than the plastic fountains.My cats love it!
5	1351468800	Extremely happy with this stainless cat fountain bought from Pioneer in April 2012 (now October 2012).The design is ideal for both human and pet:  it is very easy to clean and refill, and the design allows cats to choose whether to drink from bubbling fountain, stream, or still pool.Both my cats have substantially increased their water consumption.  They like the fountain quite a lot and will sometimes sit near it and just to watch the moving water.  In fact they are attached to it and have become agitated when I took the fountain off line for cleaning.Results are most noticeable in the litter box, where urine "clumps" much better than before.  This results in a cleaner litter box with less odor and less frequent need to replace litter.
1	1351382400	We first set this fountain up on Saturday,September 29th. All went well, kitty loved it. Yes, past tense....it suddenly stopped working on October 27th. We used, per our vet's recommendation, distilled water and cleaned it every Saturday. Amazon return time expired Oct. 22nd. Pretty expensive for a month's usage.Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel  Fountain Raindrop Design
5	1351209600	I have had this 7 months and it is still running strong! That is a lot to say for a pet fountain.  We battled that blue and clear dome shaped plastic cat-it fountain for years. Replaced parts and it looked terrible from water deposits. The silver shows a lot less mineral deposits and the motor run better.  When it stopped working I thought it was broken but it turns out there is a way to take it apart and clean it. Takes maybe 3 minutes.  It was about 60% cheaper then that other one.
4	1350950400	I have 2 cats, and only one has an issue with water. He has multiple sources around the house including water bowls, toilets, tubs, glasses and plastic cups that I leave sitting out for him. He wants to drink water all the time and there's no rhyme or reason why he picks the sources he does, but if he can't find one he's happy with, he drives me crazy!This stainless steel fountain is nice looking, easy to assemble and although I'm happy with it, he won't use it. At first he was curious but somewhat hesitant because of the noise. It's similar to an aquarium pump sound (I find it somewhat soothing, like a zen water fountain.)Supposedly you can adjust the flow rate but I've found no difference in the 3 switch settings on the pump. I can't get it turned down low enough. My cat likes to drink droplets of water from leaves on plants or from the bottom of the shower or tub. He seems to be afraid of the noise both from the pump and the slight vibration of the metal against metal. He is definitely intrigued by it and will cautiously approach it if I have it unplugged and take a few laps of water. I keep picking him up and putting him in front of it, and most of the time he will run away from it. I think if the reservoir bowl was more oblong and further away from the flow of water, he might go for it. I'm also wondering if the stainless steel might be the problem and if I should try the ceramic one instead.
5	1350777600	I bought the Pioneer Pet stainless steel fountain Raindrop design to replace the water fountain that I bought last year.  The model of the one that was bought last year was the Drinkwell 360 stainless steel.  About 2 months ago the pump started to fail and I could not find one to replace it.  Checked all over the net for the pump, the only way to replace the pump was to buy a new unit.  The pioneer fountain cost less and so do the filters, best of all it is made in the USA.  I have had the fountain for a little over one month and the cats like it, which is the most important part.  The care is very easy, clean as needed and taking it apart is simple.
3	1350777600	I read all of the other reviews before purchasing so I had really high hopes for this fountain. The comments that other people had written prepared me for what to expect when I opened the box and helped me get the fountain set up and working well initially. While it took the cats a little while to warm up to the fountain, they did, in spades. That is why it is all the more disappointing that the machine just stopped working. Now my cat just walks over and looks at it and then at me as if asking what happened to it- if possible, she looks disappointed and sad every time she finds that the fountain is no longer working.Would I buy it again- hmm. Well, we didn't even have it for three months before it broke but I have noticed that the cats both drink more water now- somehow it seems that drinking out of the fountain encouraged them to drink water and they realized that they liked it- the taste, the feel of being hydrated, something... and for that, I would say that it was definitely worth it even if it didn't last. So I would be willing to try again, in the hopes that I just got a defective unit- but I won't continue to throw good money after bad.My rating is a 3 which is the average of my ratings of a 5 initially and a 1 as it broke within the first two months of owning it.
2	1350604800	Everything is just fine about the pet fountain, except for the noise.  The constant humming is very loud and distracting.
2	1350604800	In beginning gave it a 4 star Bought 2 they work fine. Used filter at first - did get slime build up with and without filter and later took it out. We use distilled water. Make sure you clean it with soap and hot water at least once a week - i use dawn - to get rid of the slime that builds up. Pump is a little noisy.Now rate it as a 2 starAfter about two months quit using both of them got tired of the weekly cleaning of slime build up - used dawn to clean.Yes it does get a slime build up.Empty it and run your fingers in it and in where the pump is.Slimy fingers right.Slime is not good for anyone.Started contiplating the plastic pump, suction cups and wire - thinking this is toxic.So we don't use these anymore.Cats just get fresh distilled water with dmannose every 2 days in freshly cleaned vintage Corelle dishes that where made in the USA.
4	1350518400	First do not underestimate stainless steel - this bowl cleans very easily, NEVER has mold issues and is incredibly quiet.  The cats love the water flow and it is much superior to other such bowls I have had in the past.  That said, the bowl is SMALL and needs to be filled every few days.  Outside of that, I think this is easily the best water bowl I have ever purchased for my cats.
5	1350432000	This is the best water fountain I've ever owned. Not only is it quiet and stylish looking, but it is so easy to clean! It breaks down into its components in just 5 seconds, and then I can stick the stainless steel pieces in the dishwasher. The pump and water flow are quiet and don't make a mess by splashing water everywhere. My cats love it, and it has increased their water intake.
1	1350432000	Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop product I had to throw out.  The item got moldy, I even changed the water and used bottled water, it clogged up and the unit itself was noisy.  Too hard to take apart and clean, within 4 days of assembly, the charcoal fliter leaked and was floating in the water.  My cat wouldn't drink from it.
5	1350345600	I have purchased several water fountains for my cats- (a different brand).  This is by far the best one that I have ever purchased and I would recommend it to any potential buyer.
3	1350259200	I like some things about this fountain but find it very noisy. I fiddle with the seating of the pump dish and the top until it stops but am about ready to toss it.  The pump dish keeps losing its little rubber feet.
4	1350259200	I'd purchase it again, if I had less kitties. I've had a lot of fountains; with most of them I have to refill about every 2-4 days with 7 kitties, with this one I have to refill it every day, sometimes twice. I still like it though, and as of now I just have to deal with filling it every day because my kitties are just now recovering from getting chin acne from our old plastic fountains. When I have the money, I'll be buying a different stainless steel fountain and giving this one to my mom for her one kitty! My only other complaint is the pump can be a bit annoying, but luckily I don't hear it over my computer fan(fountain is in our office). This fountain does have two big benefits, one being SUPER easy to clean, and two being the stream of running water is a lot 'thicker' and bigger than other fountains. Very nice!
3	1350259200	Set up the stainless steel fountain per the manual, and had a problem I couldn't find in any of the other reviews.  The flow rate was only a few drops per minute, not enough to get it flowing down the trough.  The manual said to give it a minute or two to get started.  I gave it 45 minutes.  Nothing.I tried tapping on it, I pulled the top cover off, I verified the inlets weren't blocked...  I'm a rocket engineer.  It's a cat fountain.  How hard can this be?  But it wasn't working.Out of ideas, I unplugged it and plugged it back in.  It instantly worked as advertised.  Sheesh.Posting this review just in case someone else has the same problem some day.-R
5	1350000000	Fantastic!  I used the DrinkWell for a year or 2 for my cats, and it was such a pain to clean.  It had so many pieces, all needed to be hand washed.  This is so simply designed, so easy to clean, and so much better looking!  Anything that can be cleaned in the dishwasher is a winner for me.  It is super functional and easy to use, really does not even require directions.  Don't know why others say it is noisy, not when it is properly filled with water, (the water should be near the edge).  I am right now sitting 10-12 feet away from it and I can't hear a thing.  My cats love the fresh running water and keeping them healthy & hydrated (especially for males with urinary issues), saves money from vet bills.  Wise investment for me.
2	1350000000	Although it can get noisy, if not really, really full of water and the pump turned down to low, my cats use it readily.  I like the compact look, and the fact that it's dishwasher safe.  Too bad I won't buy another one, because when the pum went bad after only 6 months and I requested a replacement, this is the response I got:Sorry to hear that you are having issues with your pump. We have foundthat the impeller which is held in by a magnet can become off balance.There is a quick fix for this problem. If you look on page 9 & 10 of yourmanual there are instruction on how to take apart the pump. If you nolonger have your manual you can go to[...] and they will show you how totake apart your pump. When you do this and remove the impeller after youput it back in give it a few spins this will help it stay in balance. Youshould be doing this once a month when you change your filters.I have also included an troubleshooting  attachment and an attachment thatshows all of the pieces out of the pump to aid in taking the pump apart.I don't think a company should require customers to be repair persons.  I may get all those parts out, but I'd never get the little thing all back together.
5	1349913600	I had originally ordered one of the ceramic cat fountains as it was less expensive since I didn't know if the cats would like it.  Anyway it arrived in pieces and unfortunately I was out of town dealing with ill family member.  When I finally really looked at it it was about a month and Amazon wouldn't take it back.  So we found some "safe" glue and glued it and gave it a try.  Well the cats REALLY loved the moving water and the filter!  It hung together for a while but the hard water build up got bad to deal with and then started leaking.  SO I ordered the stainless steel one and it came today.  It is PERFECT!  The cats are happy to have their water fountain back!  So if you are looking at the ceramic one... my recommendation is spend a bit more and just get the stainless one! It looks great, can be SCRUBBED to clean it when needed... and yes the cats do like it!
5	1349913600	The stainless steel pioneer water fountain is worth every dollar.  Our cats drink from the bowl several times a day, and it's easy to clean.  Shipment was quick and product was easy snap together.  It's an excellent product!!
1	1349913600	The instructions don't highlight this, but they include it.  The pump clogs with normal wear.  Before you lose your temper and throw it away, follow the instructions for cleaning. It will be okay.  I threw away one pump and then wrote a scathing review.  The company contacted me to remind me that the instructions for cleaning the pump came with the product.  Duh.  Okay.  My bad.
2	1349740800	This is a beautiful fountain that is so poorly designed it's ridiculous.  I have 6 cats, 3 of whom are just 1 year old.  They are very curious and love to explore.The top portion of this fountain is not firmly attached.  My kittens love to put their paw under it to play with the water that is falling into the bowl.  They pull the top piece off either just enough to cause the water to fountain into the floor or they pull it completely free of the pump.I decided that waking up to a completely drained fountain at least once a week was a bit much and went with the Drinkwell 360 instead.
5	1349481600	i got a 12 weeks old ragdoll kitten who barely drink.when this thing arrives, it works as it should.. she began to drink regularlyi put the water fountain near her bed cage and every time she goes in and out her sleeping heaven.. she would take some watervery happy with the purchase..i saw some negative reviews here about this product..I recommend to keep the water fresh and let it run for a day or two before introduce it to your cat.6 stars!
5	1349395200	Just got this item and so far i love it. Hopefully it'll keep my pets from drinking out of the toilet even tho they have full bowls of water. All you hear is a little trickle of water, even on the lowest setting, which is kind of soothing for me but some might find annoying. It is stainless steel. I've read reviews saying it wasn't so i'm happy about that. It'll be easier to clean and it keeps the water a little cooler. I unfortunately bought a refurbished model trying to save a few bucks but it didn't come with a filter so it'll end up costing the same in the end anyway. Though if my pets drank out of the toilet before, i don't think they'll notice their water isn't filtered now :P
3	1349395200	I loved the design of this product, loved the reviews and my dog and cat loved the fountain.  It is quiet and provides a nice fun bubble and flow of water that the cat especially loves.  The problem is that it just plain stopped working after exactly 30 days of use.  I cleaned it every few days and never let the water level run low. Sigh...disappointed.  AND I threw away the original packaging so I dont know if i can get a refund or replacement or not.
5	1349395200	I previously had one of the "other" fountains for my cats but it was a pain to clean. The cats liked it but it was overly complicated, had too many parts when it came to cleaning time.This unit is very easy to maintain, cats have no problem drinking out of the pool or the "fountain" part.simple, quiet, reliable (so far), and it gets the job done.
5	1349136000	This was a replacement of the Drinkwell fountain I was using. Unlike the Drinkwell, this fountain is quick and easy to change. It's also quiet when it's on. I have three cats and one is a messy drinker so this non-complicated fountain is perfect. Because of my number of cats I have the filters need to be changed frequently.
3	1349136000	I picked up this pet fountain as it is stainless steel and the old one I had was plastic.  The plastic one (don't remember who makes it, but it looks like a dome) was causing rashes on my cat, which shouldn't be an issue with the new one.  The problem with this fountain is that it is a lot noisier than my old one, despite the package saying "ultra-quiet pump."  It makes a noticeable humming or buzzing noise (around 50 dB, about the same as an electric toothbrush).I contacted a nice woman at Pioneer Pet, who swapped out the pump, not once, not twice, but three times.  Every time the results were the same.  It's not lawn mower loud, but I placed it in my kitchen and if my fridge compressor turns on and I stand between my fridge and the fountain, I can hear them both.  When the house is quiet, I can hear the fountain in the next room.  Sometimes I can make it less noisy, by taking it apart and putting it back together, but that's hit or miss.I believe it's actually a design problem as opposed to a problem with the pump.  The pump vibrates slightly which causes a slight hum.  Put the pump in its container and the container vibrates.  Put the container in the bowl and that vibrates.  The larger something is, the more noise it makes when vibrating.  Put the lid on and the sounds echo around underneath the lid, amplifying the noise.  It's like clapping your hands in an empty room.If you can look past the noise (it doesn't bother my cat), its actually not a bad fountain.  The water makes no noise at all.  It's just too bad about the humming.
1	1349049600	I have three cats and they prefer to drink their water from a glass-stemmed crystal preferably. They do not like this water fountain. After using it for a year (changing filters and constant cleaning) a lime crust has formed on parts of the stainless steel and the fountain doesn't always work properly. It is a pain to take apart , clean & reassemble. The electric cord doesn't allow the unit to be pushed into a corner. I will keep using it until my last filters are shot and then decide if I will buy more filters or just chuck it.I have now had this unit for a couple of years, keep it rigorously clean and have never seen any of my three cats drink from it. They prefer their water from a clear glass, preferably stemmed cut crystal
5	1348876800	I have tried several pet fountains and they all had poor design flaws.This fountain is very easy to clean because of its stainless steal design and my cats love it.
5	1348790400	This is a nice water dish. I had a little difficulty putting it together, but once I figured it out, it works great. Highly recommend.
2	1348531200	My cats don't care for it. I'm buying another Drinkwell and boxing this up to donate. I think they've only drank from it once or twice in the last 2-1/2 months.
5	1348358400	I love the Pioneer Pet fountain and so does Cleo.  It stays much cleaner because it's stainless, much easier to fill, and though it's a little louder then my last fountain, it's actually a pleasant sound.
3	1348358400	The fountain itself works fine, plenty of water, nice size. However, the refections of the stainless steel through the water made it impossible to see the water level -- the whole basin looks more like a mirror. My cats wouldn't drink from it. I'm exchanging it for the white ceramic one (I'm concerned that the black ceramic one may have a similar reflection problem).
2	1348099200	I purchased this because I have a sphynx and he was getting chin acne really bad and I read that having a stainless steel bowl will help that. The filtration was an added bonus, so that is why I decided to purchase this bowl.After 2 months, the pump stopped working. I'm not amused. I surely thought that something that I spent close to $40 on would last longer than 2 months. I can purchase a plain stainless steel bowl for cheap, but the thing that sold me on this bowl was that it filters the water and keeps it fresh.I haven't decided if I am going to purchase another pump yet. I'm pretty upset about this one and am just thinking about getting an entirely different waterer. The reason why I got rid of the plastic was so that I could try to improve his chin. That has worked, but I don't want to keep throwing money at Pioneer Pet to keep sending me a product that isn't built to last.I'm just going to keep using the bowl without the filter and hope that his skin continues to improve. Maybe for Christmas my little kitty will get a new pump.
2	1347408000	What a disappointment!  I bought this pet drinking fountain on May 11, and the motor burned out on September 11--4 months! This was just beyond the deadline for returning it.  Instead, I will take it right out to the trash.This is NOT exactly what I imagined when I bought this item.  Two out of my five cats liked it; the others were indifferent.  Several people had recommended the fountain design since the water gets filtered.  I disassembled the unit once a week and cleaned all the parts thoroughly.  I'm not sure what happened, but I guess I'll go back to regular drinking bowls. At least there are no mechanical parts to break.For those of you thinking of buying one of these--a little caution is in order.
5	1347408000	Always had problems getting my male cat to drink enough water.He only wanted water outside from a certain dish (or the toilet in a pinch!) Set up this water bubbler and he loves it. (In fact, he drank so much the first day that he threw up.)I no longer worry about leaving him alone for a weekend.Product is well made and the stainless is a definite plus. Easy to clean and maintain. Fairly quiet but it might bother some people if it was in the same room they slept in. Ours is in the kitchen and it doesn't bother us, even at dinnertime. Buy it! Your cat will love it.
4	1347321600	I bought this for my 2 cats after one of the cats had a urinary issue(full blockage). I ordered the product on a Friday evening and arrived at my home on a Tuesday. That's pretty fast.It was easy to assemble and is also easy to clean. It does take a few days for the cats to adjust to the product. I kept their previous water bowl close by to help them with the transition. The cat with the urinary issue still has yet to adjust but the other cat drinks out of the fountain. I am sure both cats will use this fountain as time passes.
1	1347235200	This broke 2 weeks after I got it, the motor stopped pumping the water. It was also loud.I was disappointed and cannot recommend this product. Maybe I got a lemon.
5	1347148800	I've had this for about 3 wks and must say that my cats and I LOVE it.  They like how fresh and clean the water stays and I like that they finally quit drinking from my decorative "people fountain".My one reservation is the capacity.  I have an unusually large multi-cat cat family and it seems like there's always a head stuck in there drinking.  Pump instructions say to keep water filled within an inch of the rim, and I find myself having to add water twice a day or more (fewer cats would make this a non-issue).Even so, I highly recommend this model.  It's quiet, lightweight, easy to take apart and clean.  Very nice quality for the cost.
5	1347062400	I had reservations about this type of item but after having it for 2 weeks I can honestly say that I love it and so does my cat. I rinse it daily without a problem. I highly recommend this item.
5	1346976000	You must buy this.  Both my cats love it.  The timid one drinks out of the pool side, the brave one drinks directly from the bubbly fountain stream.  Both my cats drink more water because of this fountain and I LOVE the sound it makes.  Very gentle, soothing babble.  There is a slight hum, but its' not bothersome at all, and I"m sensitive to that sort of thing.  A MUST have for cat guardians!ONE YEAR UPDATE: My only complaint now is that even with the filter installed, the bowl eventually develops a "muck" and the water becomes cloudy with an algae or some kind of bacterial growth after a week.  The only way to prevent this is to change the water in the fountain every day.  When I do that, it takes twice as long for the muck to appear.  You should bleach it/clean it once a week anyway.
4	1346976000	This is just what you'd expect, a recycling water fountain.  It's low enough for cats and dogs (we have 2 small cats), and they can drink either from the pool area or the waterfall area. The only drawback to this fountain that prevents 5 stars is that it is louder than other pet fountains.  Not that it's jet engine loud, but if you are in the same room, you will hear it. Of course, on the bright side, when it gets low and it really starts gurgling, you know it and know to refill it before you burn the engine.All in all, if you are considering a pet fountain, this is a good deal.  Stainless steel doesn't get the mold or mildew of the plastic ones, the filter is VERY easy to change, and your pets will use it.
5	1346889600	I purchased the stainless steel model and it is super quiet. I asked the company about the reported noise factor before I purchased and they said that sometimes the impeller on the pump shakes loose in shipping; all you need to do is take it apart as you normally would to clean it (this also will keep future noise nil) then reassemble and it should be fine. But I didn't even have that problem. I am, however, going to trade for the white ceramic model because it will go better with my white tile flooring. My kits love it, and I'm glad the dogs (one slobbery) don't drink from it; it's a bit hidden from them. A good investment for the health of my cats.
4	1346803200	I had a 2.5 gallon automatic water before I bought this.  He seemed to enjoy drinking out of the toilet bowel more than the automatic waterer.  Even if the bathroom doors were shut all day, and his only water supply was the automatic waterer, he still wouldn't drink from it.  I think he prefers the toilet over the automatic waterer because it's fresher cooler water.  That's why I bought this.  The filter would filter out debris and the running water would keep it cool. If your dog is a slob like mine, keep the food bowel a few feet away from the water bowel.  It will filter out debris but large chucks of dog food will clog things up.  My dog is a slob and when he goes from the food bowel to the water bowl, chucks of his food end up in the water bowel and I have to clean the bowel more often.  My only issue with this is I have to keep refilling it.  My 80lb Belgian malinois drinks A LOT of water.  Probably close to two of these bowels a day.  He seems to drink more than other dogs his size.  Cleanup is easy enough. The bowel itself is easy to clean, but the white plastic enclosure has some corners that may need a brush.  I have a sprayer faucet and it works just fine when I just hot water.  There are only three parts that you have to remove from the pump, and it's easy.  There is a YouTube video on how to clean it at: [...]I didn't have any problems with it.  The plastic enclosure around the pump might be the first thing that breaks, but it hasn't done it yet.  The pump is quiet except when the water gets low.  Once it gets to about a quarter full, you start to hear the pump.  Once it has less than a half inch of water left, it gets really loud.  Refilling it with water will quiet it down, but depending on how long it's been low, it might take a minute for the noise to go away.  I generally clean this when I replace the filter.  I usually do that every 2-3 weeks depending on how the pump is pumping.  If you experience a decrease in pump performance, a lot of times it's because a chunk of food is blocking the hole.  Opening the plastic container will free it and it will pump again.  If that doesn't work, check the filter and see if it's filled with debris.  The next step would be to clean the pump.  Always clean the pump when you clean the bowel and this bowel will last you.Even though this has been great so far, I'm going to have to sell it and upgrade to the Pioneer Fountain Big Max because my dog drinks so much. I'm hoping the bigger one will work just as well.  They both use the same filter.
1	1346457600	I wanted  a fountain for my older cat who is not drinking enough water. She loves a dripping faucet so I thought this would be perfect. It was, until it totally quit after only 10 days. I took it apart but could not get it to work. After reading the suggestions the manufacturer gave, I took it apart again and got it working.  It was the impeller. This product lasted 6 months and then quit for good. It's not worth the money.
1	1346457600	I was sooooo excited to receive this fountain as a gift. I had been in the hospital and my friend bought each of us one because they looked so fancy. BOTH of our fountains died within 2 days of each other.. Just kaput, engine died. And when we called Pioneer, they didn't care at all. I absolutely do NOT recommend that anybody waste their money on this product.
5	1346371200	At first they thought it was an elaborate new toy, but once they got over that, they love it.  It's big enough for both of them to drink at the same time, and they're drinking more, much to my vet's (and my) delight.The basin and fountain cover are really easy to clean (I throw them in the dishwasher), but does tend to get slimy faster than I'd expected.  The motor stays quiet as long as it has enough water in it, and the replacement filters are reasonable.  Put it on a towel or a mat, though, it does splash a bit.What else could one ask for in a kitty fountain?
1	1346284800	Purchased this product on July 17th and it was delivered on the 19th.After cleaning it, it took several minutes of wiggling the lever on the pump to get it started . One cat loved it instantly the other took a couple weeks to get used to it. On Aug 29th topped of water and left for work,when I got home it was not working and no matter how much I tried it does not work . 40 days what a rip and I sent another as a gift to my mother and she had the same problem getting hers started . See how long hers works?
1	1346284800	I bought the product thinking this would be an upgrade from the cheap plastic fountain I had previously.  This one gets slimy and my cat refuses to drink from this.  Even though the water is moving, it feels stagnant.  Every other fountain we have tried she has warmed up to, but this one was a no-go for her! Going back to el cheapo
2	1346198400	Not only did my cat not like this fountain but the sound from the pump resonates in the stainless steel fountain, making it louder than it would be normally. I also noticed that over the course of a day of evaporation (and very little kitty drinking)the water level goes down enough to make the pump even louder. Returned. Maybe a ceramic one will be quieter.
5	1346112000	Our cats love this fountain!!  Both our 8 month old kitten and 9 year old cat love to drink from the top of the fountain.We've had other pet fountains in the past (ceramic and plastic) and they've all been one big pain in the patoot to clean.  For some reason, a slimy grime built up on the sides of the ceramic and plastic pet fountains, BUT NOT ON THE STAINLESS PET FOUNTAIN.  No slimy grime build up and it is sooooo easy to clean.  We and our cats absolutely love the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain!!
3	1346112000	I bought this product because my cat is prone to kidney stones and thought she would drink more water.  I have 2 cats and 2 dogs and never saw any of the animals drinking out of it, in spite of having it on the way to the litter box.  I gave it to my daughter who also has 2 cats and 2 dogs.  One cat would drink out of it sometimes.  I suppose if your pet likes it it's worth the money but how would you know until you get it?Setting it up was super easy, I hardly needed instructions, and it's easy to clean and very quiet.
4	1345939200	Good quality water bowl, makes a bit of noise but now I am used to it. with three cats drinkng out of it, needs to be cleaned almost every other day... I bought 2
5	1345766400	I was a hardcore fan of the Dinkwell Platinum water fountain, I've had it for years and never had a problem with it (except the complicated cleaning process), the reason I had to replace it was because of one of my three cats developed the dreaded chin acne and I couldn't figure out why. I happened to see a few comments here on Amazon linking feline acne to plastic fountains and I knew that had to be my cat's problem so I started researching stainless steel or ceramic fountains.I settled on the Pioneer Pet Raindrop Design fountain because I felt the Max model was going to be too big. I received it one day earlier than expected (Thanks Amazon!) and put it together in a matter of minutes. Yes the housing for the motor is plastic, the motor itself is plastic too, there's really no escaping plastic and I'll update the review concerning the plastic and the feline acne once the fountain has been established but the spout is rubber.Here is my list of Pros and Cons with some comparisons to the Drinkwell Platinum:Raindrop Pros:-Very lightweight-Very few parts-Is incredibly easy to clean, no hidden crevices or hard to reach places-Very quiet, a slight hum from the motor but it's almost silent, there is no water noise-Pump is adjustable for strength-No reservoir, you can just pour water directly into the basin to refill.Raindrop Cons:-Very Lightweight. I think a rubber base should've been added, I can see mischievous cats (or if this is for your small dog) being able to knock it around even when it's full. This is a very lightweight stainless steel, I'm sure most large dog bowls are heavier than this device.-The piece that the water slides down is only held in place by fitting the motor housing tube into the rubber spout tube. There is no clicking pieces or any thing else to hold it together, I see a cat or dog being able to knock this off. The pieces fit together, there's no rattling, but there's no security.-This is not really a "fountain" in the traditional sense. Located at the top the water bubbles up and slides down into the reservoir, it's not a steady stream falling into the reservoir like the Drinkwell Platinum model.-The motor to control the speed of the water bubbling is only adjustable on the actual motor. This is very inconvenient if you want to adjust it after it's already filled and running because now you have to empty and disassemble. I had to do this twice and was wasting water in the process.-Holds about 7.5 Cups of water. The Drinkwell Platinum easily held 10+ Cups.-No fill line indicating a good level of water to keep.-Filters could be a problem. They are not found in stores, they're smaller and the manufacturer recommends replacing every 2-4 weeks. (Update: saw them in PetCo)Coming from the Drinkwell Platinum this fountain is essentially silent. I've read some reviews complaining about motor noise with the Raindrop, so let me see if I can help.1. I got the motor noise as well and it was annoying. However, what I realized was I was under-filling the fountain. At 4 cups the fountain runs and looks full (4 cups = 32oz) the box clearly says that it can hold 60oz which is about 7.5 cups of water. I added the additional water and within a few seconds the motor noise went down to a humming. Make sure you are filling the fountain to capacity.2. Try adjusting the motor higher or lower. Unfortunately this an extra process since the only adjustment is on the motor and in order to judge what you deem as a good speed you have fill it up, if you don't like the speed/sound then you have to empty and disassemble. (The Drinkwell Platinum had the motor adjustment handle that was located outside the fountain in the bowl and was very convenient.)I have not gotten any rattling from the stainless steel parts. Everything is working as advertised and is almost completely silent. There's no water noise and only a slight hum from the motor.I would highly recommend this model over any plastic fountain especially since learning how bacteria-ridden plastic fountains can become even with regular cleaning. Since I replaced my Drinkwell Platinum due to one of my cats getting feline acne I'll update this review in a few weeks. Before I found the Raindrop I took away the Drinkwell and replaced it with glass bowls so my cats were without a fountain for about 4 days and already I've seen a decrease in the acne on my cat's chin. All my cats took quickly to the Raindrop, they were hesitant at first but now they use it without a problem.Update 9/12/12I've had this fountain for a few weeks now and I couldn't be happier with it and I would like to share a couple tips:1. As others have written about I do get motor noise daily. This is because the water is dipping below the lip of the fountain, all you have to do is add 1 to 2 cups of water and it quiets down almost immediately. If adding water to the fountain daily is a chore for you then I would suggest a fountain with a reservoir since this fountain does not have a separate reservoir like other brands. For me, it's not an issue and adding a cup or two daily keeps the water fresh in my opinion. You can add it directly to the fountain there is absolutely no tinkering, just pour it in, in fact, I find it laughable that this is an issue for some people. If you are continuously adding water to this fountain it's too small for your pet/pets.2. Just putting this out there; I have hard water and it's affecting the look of the stainless steel. I'm sure a more thorough scrubbing will remove the calcium but since the stainless is light weight I'm afraid of scratching it.3. There's really no way to cheat their filters. The felt and carbon are held together by the plastic shell, if you open the shell everything is loose inside so there's really no way to clean or re-use the filter to get more life out of it. Also, the plastic shell is not recyclable.4. Cleaning is an absolute breeze and it takes only minutes to do it. The plastic housing that holds the pump has not gotten slimy at all, I know slimy plastic is a big concern with pet fountains and this has not been an issue.5. I have seen a difference the one cat's chin acne. It has decreased significantly since purchasing the fountain so I can say switching to stainless steel has worked for me. (or him, whichever)In conclusion, I would recommend buying this unit (on Amazon because it is significantly cheaper than stores) all three of my cats use this fountain. When I had the Drinkwell I would leave 2 bowls of water next to the unit just in case a cat didn't want to drink from the fountain, I didn't realize it but I was cleaning and filling those bowls everyday, after purchasing the Raindrop I went down to the one bowl of water as an option and it doesn't get touched.
4	1345766400	I really like this water bowl for my cats since it is made of stainless steel.  Plastic bowls should not be used for food or drinking bowls for cats. My cats really like this water fountain bowl. One big problem is the cleaning of the element where the filter is positioned - it is very difficult to disassemble this area.  I usually end up just cleaning everything else with warm soapy water and rinsing everything real well.
3	1345766400	I received the package today and it took less than 5 minutes to set up the bowl with the pump and cover ready to fill with water.  The problem I ran into was that there was no filter included in the box and the description I read led me to believe there would be one included.  Luckily I had ordered replacement filters so I was able to use the fountain immediately.After a quick adjustement to the speed of the pump it was up and running and in place.  This is for the cat who is struggling with bladder infections but the dogs seem to be jealous she gets a special treat.  I may have to invest in another one soon.Had all parts been included, meaning the filter been with the fountain, I would have rated this with a higher rating.
5	1345680000	I got this for my sheltie since she drinks a lot of water.  The stainless steel bowl is great since she is allergic to touching most plastics, expect white for some reason.  The pump is easy to maintain and maintenance is the most important issue.  You have to clean not only the bowl but the pump.  The vid on Youtube about these bowls was very helpful.If like my dog, it will take you animal a few weeks to get use to the bowl.  After that, they drink easily from it.  I kept a standard small bowl down and the filter one until she got the idea and was unafraid of the sound of the pump.If water flow gets to be a problem, the pump needs cleaning by taking it apart.My dog loves it.  It is worth the money.
4	1345593600	My dogs love this! It's a little harder to keep it filled when my huskies go at it but they seem to always drink out of the spout where the running water comes out of. I wouldn't recommend if you only have large dog however because you will constantly have to keep filling and refilling it. Dont forget to stick up or subscribe for the replacement filters!
5	1345507200	Overall, the fountain is pretty quiet.  It's easy to clean and very easy to assemble.  My cat likes it although it did take a day or two for him to get used to it.
4	1345420800	I am fairly happy with the pet fountain that we purchased compared to our earlier version. This stays much cleaner. Only side note is that the fountain makes almost no noise when it is low so you have to be mindful so that you don't burn out the motor.
5	1345420800	I got this to replace a Drinkwell fountain for my Cat.  My Drinkwell was at least 5 years old so this may not be a problem with the new ones but it was all but impossible to clean.  The plastic was porous so calcium would build up on it and if you scrubbed it it made it worse It also had tons of nooks and crannies to get into.  I finally had had enough and searched for a stainless steel dish.  The pioneer pet is not the fanciest of stainless steel (very thin) and I wish it  had a waterfall instead of a channel that it ran down but other than that it's perfect.  The only thing that concerns me is the pump.  It's very small and seems cheap, so we will have to see how long it lasts..
2	1345420800	This product collects alot of cat hair in the bowl and is very loud. I wouldn't recommend it. I have had other water depositories that worked so much better.
4	1345420800	Really like this product. Our cat was diagnosed with CKD and our vet advised us to get a water fountain which we did and she was allergic to the plastic so I searched and searched for a stainless steel one.... And I found this one. She was a little unsure at first because she could see her reflection in the metal but after a little while she tried it and now uses it normally.
5	1345248000	So much easier to clean then the drinkwell, works perfectly, cats drink more, stay healthier longer, plan on getting another for other rooms.
5	1345248000	I bought this for the cat.  He LOVES it.  Now he  stops pestering me at the sink.  If your cat is like mine....buy it
5	1345248000	This fountain encourages cats to drink water. My two cats love to drink from all three sources.It is easy to clean and change the filter.
5	1345161600	This is a great water fountain our cats! One likes to drink from the bubbler part and the other from the bowl area. It definitely gets their attention and they seem to drink more. I take apart the fountain and clean it every other week as recommended but I don't change the filters as often as recommended because I give my cats distilled water (it is supposed to be better for them.) Since I use distilled, the filters are basically just filtering out any dust or cat hair that lands in the water, as opposed to fitering out chlorine. So I just rinse them off and put them back in.I choose a stainless steel fountain because I read somewhere that bacteria can grow more easily on ceramic, and plastic is out of the question. I never let my cat eat or drink from plastic! I have two different friends who's cats that got awful rashes on their chins. When my friends took their cats to the vet they found out that they had a plastic allergy, which I guess can be common. I don't think the Pioneer Raindrop comes in plastic anyway, but some other brands do. Don't buy plastic!I highly recommend this fountain! It looks nice, works well, is easy to clean (I ordered the cleaning brushes), and the cats love it.
4	1344816000	I had purchased two of these for two households.Cons:* The adapter blew within the first 6 months and I had to purchase new ones* Can be loud at times especially if the water is half gone* The white plastic casing for the motor does not close shut and so the noise level can increase due to this* The point of a metal or ceramic fountain is to avoid the build up of bacteria which can occur with plastic bowls - so why is there a plastic casing for the motor? I find that all the gunk settles on the plastic* The rubber bit that goes in the whole of the top half of the fountain gets dirty very quickly and can even grow mould even if I clean it every 3 days. I removed it all together but Pioneer needs to rethink this or provide replacement rubber bitsEverything else is great about the fountain. It really works well and my cats are always drinking from it. One cat had chin acne and it was gone within a week after use of the fountain. Even though the construction is not up to par, it is still the best fountain out there for your pets. Worth it.
5	1344816000	My cat loves this fountain, but just as importantly I also love it because it is very easy to maintain. There are few moving parts so cleaning it is a breeze. I recommend this product very highly. Angus and I give it 5 stars.
2	1344816000	I very much like the look of this fountain but it's quite a bit smaller than I anticipated and it is so LOUD!  It seriously gives me a headache if I am close to it for too long.  I tried sitting it on top of a nice plush pad but I think the pump itself inside just runs really loud.  I am thinking about returning it but I live in Canada so I may just keep it in the basement as a secondary water source.  I wouldn't recommend this product.  It also shows water deposits within a few days so you need to clean it quite often.
2	1344384000	Looked great, worked well as far as moving water, but it's just too noisy.  It was like living with a tiny air compressor.  The cats were only mildly interested.
5	1344384000	This is my second stainless pet fountain. I have one cat that has skin allergies and non-plastic feeding items was recommended, so I previously purchased a larger stainless fountain for the main feeding are (I have several cats).I use this one in an auxiliary feeding area and my cats took well to it. The bubbling keeps the water fresh and is pleasant to hear, but there is also a "pool" area if your pet doesn't care for the bubble up effect in their face. Stainless is also much easier to clean than the plastic styles which tend to accumulate tough to remove calcium,etc., build up.I would recommend this fountain to anyone with small pets.
3	1344384000	My cats are obsessed with drinking the water out of my bathtub when I'm done showering, drinking out of my toilet (ew!) and usually my personal glass of water that I keep on my nightstand (ew again!).  After I caught my cat licking all over the edge of my water glass I decided I needed to get them an alternative that was more appealing than their normal water dish.It looks great and was a breeze to set-up.  Unfortunatly, my cats are scared to drink out of it.  And, I haven't been able to "force" them to drink out of the water fountain by making it their only source of water because they get dehydrated easily, which leads to some sort of painful bladder condition and this bladder thing they get from time to time means they spray.  A lot.So, short story long, the fountain itself is really nice: it's very quiet, you can adjust the height of the water stream, it comes with a replaceable filter, and it's stainless steel, which means it limits the amount of bacteria in the dish (ask your vet, they always tell you all dishes should be stainless steel).  I'm hoping that with time my cats will get used to it, otherwise maybe I'll let them have my water glass and I'll drink out of their fountain.
5	1344297600	Great product & Service my pets love it and it gives me peace of mind knowing they have fresh cool water
5	1344297600	I've tried various pet water fountains in order to encourage my ancient (19yo) cat.  This particular one has a great design with both a "water slide" area and a pool.  The old cat seems to prefer to drink from the slide area but still likes the pool as well.The SS design is very simple to disassemble and clean.  This is a lot better than several plastic fountains that I've tried out.*Fixed, see below* The only problem with this is the lousy pump.  It appears to be the same pump that came with the other fountains and, like all of the others, it runs for about three months and then dies.  So far I've only been able to find a replacement pump at Pioneer Pet's website but the thing is $19 + $10 shipping... which about the cost of the entire fountain setup in the first place.I'm betting the thing is the same as a basic aquarium pump so I'm going to check the local pet shops and see if I can find a less expensive replacement. If so I'll add an update to my review.Update:As promised I'm updating my review.  I've changed the rating from 2 to 5 stars.  The pump issues were easily fixed by simply cleaning the pump.  My wife did the work and said it was quick and simple.  The thing working again.
5	1343952000	After two months the pump stopped working - I thought I would have to replace it, but when I called the company, they walked me through how to clean it, and it started right up again.  Apparently I had missed the instructions saying it needed to be cleaned every month.  Cleaning it was simple, and the person I spoke with was extremely helpful and knowledgeable - this was an excellent customer service experience.
3	1343779200	Sorry guys, I just don't like it. Assembling it is not as easy as some of the others, and it resembles a bedpan. ( not that the cats care) my others just pop apart.this one threads the electric cord through a hole in the back, so you have to disassemble the cord. The dish does not work if it is not aligned properly.The motor is noisy. There is a speed button on the motor, but I see very little difference in the speeds. My cats will use it, but they are still hesitant. They prefer other automated watering dishes. I would not order this again.....it is more effort than it is worth.
2	1343779200	The stainless steel design is very aesthetically pleasing to the owner of the cats you're trying to keep hydrated, but the cats themselves don't really care for it.I have 2 cats.  Years ago (before the second cat was acquired) Ernie, my polydactyl cat, had a problem with his bladder and crystals forming in his urine.  After multiple trips to the veterinarian, I found out that I needed a higher quality food (not something you could buy at a grocery store) and a pet fountain to "encourage" him to drink more.  With those two changes, his problems went away quickly.I've owned Petmate and Drinkwell pet fountains before and thought I'd try this one by Pioneer to add to another room (for multiple drinking stations).Of the three that I've owned over time (Petmate, Drinkwell, and Pioneer), I'd have to actually rate this Pioneer last.  The Drinkwell is still being used in one room and that is the only one both cats will drink from.  The Pioneer (as many others have mentioned) is loud (more than the other two I've owned) and neither cat will drink from this fountain.  I put the Pioneer in the room with their food and both cats will actually walk to the other end of my house to drink from the Drinkwell fountain instead of the Pioneer.  Yeah.  It amazed me too.In summary, look at the Drinkwell pet fountains.  This Pioneer was not a good purchase (at least for my pets).
4	1343433600	The Pioneer Pet Fountain works great and it is easy to tell when more water has to be added. Most importantly all 3 cats enjoy drinking from it.
4	1343347200	I like this fountain and my cats enjoy drinking from it. My only complaint is that the motor is noisy.
5	1343347200	Pyewacket, Kitty & Katt have no problems.  However, Burt {remembe Bert Lahr as the 'Cowardly Lion' in the Wizard of Oz?].  That's our Burt.  He will eat right next to the fountain but have yet to see him drink.  Hopefully with time.
3	1343260800	The product has arrived yesterday. Once I set it up, my cat drank from it right away. I'm very happy to see my cat drink more water. The product looks so good too. I give it 4 stars instead of 5 because I want to see how long this pump last. Will check back in and write more later. Thanks Amazon for a great product. :)AN UPDATE: My house cat used it for a month and quit. My other new cats don't care about it at all. The new cats (former feral cats) would rather drink from a bowl. :) I just ordered Drinkwell 360. Will see if my picky house cat likes it better. :)
4	1343174400	Very quiet and good design, easy to assemble and clean.  Bought it for the cat but the dog has taken it over.  Quick delivery from this vendor.
1	1343001600	The fountain is nice looking and does what its supposed to but even on the lowest setting it's loud and makes a constant humming sound.  On the plus side my husband said this helps him remember to fill it.Update... I threw this away.  It was way too loud and I think it even irritated the dogs.  They are much happier with their regular bowl back.  I think the water may have had a metallic taste as well b/c they loved their plastic fountain back in the day.
3	1343001600	It does the job but it's so insanely loud. It's so loud I had to move it to the back bedroom. I still hear it through the closed bathroom door. I have 4 fish tanks and it's louder than any of the fish tanks. It's louder than my 2 gaming computers.
2	1342742400	This was a great product until my cat figured out that if he nudged the lid, he could get the water to flow out onto the kitchen floor instead of back into the bowl.  We'd come home from work to find it empty and water all over the floor.  It was also impossible to clean.  No matter how many times we ran it through the dishwasher or washed by hand there was always a thin white film on it.  It was easier to go back to the regular bowls then use this product.
1	1342656000	I bought this thing on March 21st . . . It has already stopped working, conveniently it is now out of its 30 day warranty, and of course Amazon doesn't want it back either. we were careful about changing filters and not running it dry - in fact we now have extra filters we have ordered which will also be wasted. This fountain is way too expensive to stop working in 3 months, although looking back I should have known when I opened it up and took a look at the cheaply made pump unit. Do yourself a favor and avoid this thing.
5	1342569600	Great product!  My kitten would not drink water out of a plain bowl, so she would be dehydrated.  When I put this fountain out for her, she had no more problems with dehydration.  Great seller.  Price was good and product was exactly as described.
5	1342483200	I have used this for about a month, the unit works well and it cleans easy.  It took the cat about a week to start using it.  The only addition I added was three rubber pads to the bottom, so the motor vibration was not transferred to the tile floor, this helped a lot.
2	1342483200	I have three cats, one of whom is super-picky about drinking water.  She only likes to drink out of the bathroom faucet, which doesn't work very well when we're not home. After reading some of the reviews for this fountain, I decided to try it to see if she would drink out of the fountain.  She did for a couple of days but then wouldn't drink from it anymore.  In the meantime, my other two cats decided they loved the fountain.  (Cats, go and figure!)  So all was well until the pump on the fountain gave out about six months after we bought it.  I had hoped we could just buy a replacement pump, but unless I'm missing something, we had to buy the whole unit again (even though we really didn't need another stainless steel bowl).  The second unit is working fine "so far," but I wonder if it will go out after six months, too?  Also, the second unit is much louder than the first one and has a constant annoying hum that we can't get rid of.I guess my bottom line is that cats (at least two of my three) seem to love it when it works.  But it is disappointing that the pump gave out so quickly.  Would be nice if a replacement pump were offered.  And I don't like the noisiness of the second unit we got.As a side note, this is easy to clean, but it requires a complete cleaning (pump and all) at least once a week.  Some reviewers commented that it is difficult to clean, but that has not been our experience.  With that said, we have "soft" water; maybe it is more difficult to clean if you have hard water???UPDATE OCTOBER 2012:  The second pump that I purchased just a few months ago has given out, too.  Someone commented and said it may be possible to buy a replacement from the manufacturer, but I've been through two pumps in less than a year and am unwilling to try.  Someone also commented and said cat fur may be clogging the pump, but I've checked, and that is not the case with mine.  Sadly, I just don't think this is a good product.  I am lowering my rating from a three to a two.
1	1342396800	This fountain (and the pump) worked well for us, unlike other reviewers.  However, after a short amount of time, it has become nearly impossible to clean completely.  Yes, the bowl and slide are dishwasher safe; those are not the problem - assuming you're willing to do them every 2-3 days, which is as long as they can go without getting covered in a fine slime.  The problem is that pump itself - including the inside - gets slimy and spits out "sludge" into the water, no matter how many times you clean it.  So my options are to disassemble and completely clean the motor by hand every few days, or to go back to our stash of smaller bowls which we can cycle through and throw in the dishwasher with our other dishes.  One guess which option we're going with.Save your money and find a few cute ceramic, glass, or stainless steel bowls.  Much easier.
2	1342310400	We bought this to replace another fountain that died after 3 years.  The last fountain was impossible to clean so that was extremely important to me this time around.  I also wanted more water in it so we would not have to refill so often - we have 3 cats and were refilling every other day.This fountain is MUCH more attractive than our last.  The design is so simple it is near genius. One big bowl that the motor and filter unit sit in, and then a top piece over the bowl and motor for the water to flow down.It is very easy easy to clean as a result of the simple design.  No nooks or crannies to clean out, no need for a special tool.  Filters are easy to change.My only real complaint is that even though it has a large water capacity, it seems that if the water drops even by half it stops pumping.  As a result I'm just keeping a gallon jug of water by it and topping it off each morning.  Still, this is easier than my last fountain because I can just pour it in rather than filling a seperate water container.  That's the only reason I do not give it a full five stars.Also, once the pump stops running because of water level it takes a few minutes to pick up water again.  I've ended up having to take out the pump unit and adjust the flow to high just to get the water flowing, and then I can switch it back down to the lowest setting to run.  Another reason to make sure I don't let the water run low.Updated 12/30 - about 2 months after I wrote this, the motor burned out and it would no longer pump water.  I checked and it was not clogged with fur.  Figuring it could be a fluke, I emailed Amazon and they sent me a replacement at no charge.  The second one ran until about a week ago (ran for almost 6 months this time) and then the pump gave out again.  Again, took it all apart and water ran through with no problem.  Inspected it and there was no buildup.  And the bowl had been kept full at all times so we knew we hadn't burned out the motor by running it with the water low.  I am not sure I want the same bowl again, even if Amazon is kind enough to give us another replacement.
5	1342224000	Purchased the drinkwell (twice) and both times it leaked so I decided to try this one (PIONEER PET STAINLESS RAINDROP) out and I am so glad I did...our little abyssinian LuLu is drinking water like crazy out of this thing...it is a great design, cleans very easily, keeps the water nice and fresh and cool...really what else do you want? Great kitty fountain that WORKS!!! Go for it, you will be very happy you did.
1	1342224000	I bought this fountain to replace a plastic unit I feared was causing one of my cats to develop chin acne. I liked the stainless steel and, after a few days, the kittens warmed to it and began to drink from it.I've had the unit for two weeks and have cleaned it twice. Yesterday it simply stopped working. The motor isn't clogged - it just died. I've used it for a total of 14 days.Back to Amazon it goes.
5	1342137600	Bought this unit about a month ago.  Our unit has been placed on carpet pad and it doesn't make much noise unless you let the water level drop which takes several days.  So if your actively feeding and watering your cat, you should be fine.Cats also enjoy it very much and no problems as of today.
3	1342137600	We bought this for our 2 cats, one who has CRF.  We thought it would encourage her to drink more since she likes drinking from the faucet.  The "fountain" part of it isn't as strong as we would like.  They both just drink out of the bowl part of it, which frankly, I can just put the bowl they used to use back.  The unit works fine but not worth taking apart, cleaning it and buying filters.  It's just OK.
5	1341792000	Our cat came to us at 5 years of age, and we knew little about her likes, dislikes, and habits.  We found that she had a habit of knocking over her water dish every time she would go for a drink.  The fountain was more stable, and therefore, she was unable to knock it over.  She still loves splashing in it, so we have to keep a pan under it to collect all the spillage.  She does however, drink from it a lot which has helped in keeping her stools normal.  They used to be rock hard before, from lack of water. I think this is a great product, and it seems our cat does too!
1	1341792000	I just bought this product online. It stopped working after 2 days of usage. Any ideas on what the issue may be?
4	1341705600	Product is pretty easy to clean, with just a filter and a small motor to clean weekly.  The stainless steel bowl can be cleaned in the dishwasher.  The cat was very suspicious of it and hasn't really adapted to it yet, but that is more related to the cat's nature than the product.  It is quiet when running properly.
4	1341187200	An article about avoiding kidney disease in cats mentioned the Pioneer Pet stainlesss Steel Fountain Raindrop Design.  On a whim I bought it.  The first time I tried it, it seemed not to work, but taking it apart and reseating the pump fixed it.  It's silent when full and makes a slight buzz when it should be refilled - not a bad thing at all.  Best of all, my cats like it and seem to be drinking more water than they were.  In short, it's attractive, silent, and effective.
2	1340841600	My cats would not us this one very much and the pump quit after 4 months.  I have two other fountains that I picked up at the pet store and they work fine.  I clean them and replace the fitters  regularly  so I will get that brand again but not this one,
5	1340582400	I've only had this thing for a few days, but so far the results are fantastic! The cats love it. And I do too because it is so much quieter than the "whisker city" plastic thing it replaced. That thing could rattle and vibrate to an annoying degree. And while the water splashing sound was sort of relaxing, it got old hearing it all the time. This thing is such a better product. Hopefully the pumps holds up and the replacement filters don't cost a small fortune.
5	1340582400	This product is awesome, I have four fur kids all with long hair, I had been using the 360 but was having to clean it daily because of the hair floating in the water (yes I do brush the kids every day).  With the Pioneer, I am only cleaning it about every 4 to 5 days.The pump is so powerful that it pulls all the hair to the filter, so the kids have nothing but nice clear water to drink.  With respect to cleaning - a piece of cake, no more struggling with q-tips and toothbrushes or special brushes.  Take it apart, toss in the dishwasher and it comes out like new.  I also like the stainless steel as it does not harbor germs as does plastic.  Most importantly the kids love it, two of the drink from the top and the other two prefer the bottom.  I strongly suggest that if you purchase this, you might get the filters on auto-delivery, that is a real perk
1	1340582400	After having this for less than 2 months, i am extermely disappointed.  The fountain gets very slimey after a couple of days and must be cleaned at least every other day, thoroughly.  I doubt the filter is very effective.  I was cleaning it weekly and changing the filter every 3 weeks but it appears to need a more intensive and time consuming cleaning every 2 days.  What is the point of this?  My cat doesn't seem interested in drinking from this fountain at all and I am sure it is because the water smells and tastes bad due to the slime build up.  Something isn't right.  I also use filtered water when I fill the fountain to help it remain clean but with no apparent success.
1	1340496000	I bought this to replace my cat's plastic fountain because I wanted to give him a stainless steel one. But the fountain did not work, meaning no water came out. At all. I even tried to use the motor on my old fountain (that was the exact same) that works and it still didn't work. Will be returning tomorrow.
5	1340409600	This is a wonderful method for watering your cats...my cats hate standing water and use it to rinse their toys and little balls of paper...not my most desired use of a bowl of water but it keeps them happy...However, that being said, this water bowl is the second type we've had and the first one was a disaster with the water being everywhere and it was noisy..This one is the best by far.  It's quiet enough that my cats don't mind it and it doesn't splash all over the place. It's also very easy to clean.  I'm extremely pleased with it...
5	1340409600	My cat will only drink running water.  I had the bathroom faucet turned on all the time for him, not a really good option.  I saw this product and decided to give it a try.  My cat loves it!  He drinks from where the water bubbles up.  The fountain is in my kitchen and even when I'm in there I can't hear it.  The stainless steel will be easy to clean and there are only two parts to the whole thing.  That sure beats all the pieces the Drinkwell has.
1	1339977600	Since my cats enjoy drinking out of the faucet, I thought this would be a great product for them.  However, the Pioneer Pet Fountain was extremely noisy, I even had it on a carpet.  You could hear it all through the house.  It even made the cats quite wary.  The other thing is that it splashed everywhere even on the cats which they did not like.  I only saw them very few times try to take a drink out of the bowl and never the fountain.  I couldn't stand the mess and the noise.  It was returned.
5	1339891200	The product arrived and was easy to put together. I wanted it because my cat always drinks from the faucets and knocks over water cups and glasses constantly. At first she was scared and wary of the fountain but after about two days she hesitantly started to drink and I have only given her faucet water once since! The water circulates well and I can leave it on for a while. No problems so far.
5	1339804800	At first the Kitties were wary...that lasted all of about an hour.  They slapped the water a bit then drank it from all 3 positions and loved it.  Very easy to clean, keeps the water cool and prevents the acne caused by plastic bowls and dishes.I must add, Amazon was way less expensive than other sites & catalogs. Thank you Amazon
4	1339804800	The Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain is really a great product. A minor glitch at first was dealt with promptly on the phone with the company and works just perfectly now. Both my cats love it although the one does have a tendency to play in it a little. Easy to keep clean. Definitely QUIET! The short cord is a problem for me as I only have an outlet above the sink counter so the cord hangs in front of the cabinet doors. With an extension cord it will be way too long. The stainless steel bowl is not flimsy at all. Hope the plastic clamshell for the filter holds up as it must be opened frequently. Filters seem pretty expensive to me as they are to be changed every week. All in all a good product.
5	1339545600	I've used other bubbling, filtering fountains before, but this is by far the best I've come across.  Easy to clean, easy to change the filter, easy to fill.  And my cats LOVE it!!
5	1339545600	This fountain is attractive and runs quietly.  Our cat enjoys it and seems to be drinking more water since we purchased the fountain.  It is nice the water recirculates and he has fresh water.  It also goes in the dishwasher which is great and it is easy to assemble-take apart.
4	1339286400	My cats were apprehensive of this new "gadget" for their water.  It has taken them more than a month to accept it as a source of water.  My boy cat still prefers to drink out of a dripping faucet ~SIGH~ but I guess he'll realize I'm not always at his beck and call.  It's a good design, and I like the stainless steel construction.  It's much easier to clean than the prior one I had that was made of rigid plastic -- and always looked grungy because of the hard water build-up that was hard to remove.  The cats are finally starting to accept it, for which I'm happy.
4	1339113600	Our cat is afraid of anything new so it took a while for him to adjust.  He still won"t drink from the bubbler.  I like it because it does filter the water and it is better than water sitting in a bowl.Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel  Fountain Raindrop Design
5	1339027200	I can't say enough good about this water fountain. I've had the hard plastic type for years and had to throw them out periodically as they got scratches from cleaning and were a danger due to germs and bacteria in the cracks. Not so with this steel fountain. It was easy to assemble, easy to maintain and best of all, my cats LOVE it!!!! One of my cats adores the bubbling fountain part and insists on drinking only from there. My other two like the bowl part better. To each his own... and in one fountain. I'm planning on getting a second one for another room in my home where I keep a plain steel bowl of water.Oh, and there's an added bonus... The motor is very quiet so what you mostly hear is the sound of gently bubbling and moving water. Better than those water fountains meant to add calming sound to your home...this one also hydrates your pets.I highly recommend it to all pet owners. Buy it! Worth every penny (and it's really not that expensive).
5	1338854400	This pet fountain was very nice easy to clean with far less parts than most of the others. Unfortunately our cat is the most stubborn of all and refused to drink from it. We would have loved to keep this unit it was deffinetly our choice
4	1338681600	I have two cats and they both love water fountains.  This one is awesome.  SO much easier to clean than the others I have had and dishwasher safe.  Yay!!  My one cat drinks from her paw and gets water all over the floor.  This is not a design flaw, just my kitty.  My solution (partly) was to put the fountain in a (unused of course) plastic litter box to catch the overflow.  If you overfill the bowl, the fountain will overflow though over the side.  My only issue with the fountain is the small capacity and my pump burned out relatively quickly.  Customer Service from Pioneer Pet was awesome and very helpful.  When the pump burned out, I was able to buy a new pump (rather than an entirely new fountain) from Pioneer Pet.  Next time, I will buy the larger capacity ceramic fountain.  I wish the store that I bought it from had had the larger ceramic version.
5	1338508800	This fountain is simpler and cleaner than all the other Drinkwells I have had in the past. It is smart looking, easy to assemble/disassemble and most importantly as everyone keeps mentioning, easy to clean. The plastic fountains just get crudier and crudier no matter how often you clean them. Stainless steel is a simple wipe and rinse and is the best reason to buy it. I disagree with all the negative reviewers. You have to know how to care for a pump no matter what brand you buy. First of all, ever heard the expression "prime the pump"? Well this is where it comes from. You MUST pour water into the pump EVERY TIME you unplug and empty it. Yes after awhile the hair that gets into the water may build up around the fan that sucks the water into the pump and you have to open it up and clean that out, but they probably have to do that on nuclear submarines too. Nor have I had any problems with water spilling around it. Yes the motor has to be set on its lowest setting, but that just means the motor has power to spare. As to "noise", one of the primary selling features of regular fountains is the "peaceful and relaxing sound of bubbling water". I'm not sure how that could bother anybody, but even if it did its very slight and you won't hear it except in a completely silent room. There's certainly no motor noise, just the faint gurgle of water bubbling. Overall I would highly recommend it.
5	1338422400	I've had the fountain for a year now & it solved problem of a cat who shunned the water bowl. Before buying I was worried about how loud the motor would be. FYI, it makes a low hum, about as loud as a small aquarium. When the water level gets too low, the pump does get louder & sputters, but it's important to refill bowl at that point. The lid can rattle, depending on the position of the bowl on the floor... just reposition lid and/or rotate bowl till it stops. For optimal quiet, I put mine on a piece of carpet but a rubber mat might help just as well.My only complaint is my 2 cats drink so much that I have to replenish the water more than once a day-- Wish I'd gotten the next size up. I actually got worried enough to have them checked for diabetes (really-lol).BTW, clean the motor every time you change the filter. My motor stopped after a year of use. After a moment of panic, I found the reason in the last 2 pages of the manual where there are instructions on the (simple) disassembly & cleaning-- there are 3 steps to disassembly of pump itself. Cleaning consists of rinsing parts to remove fur... no biggie.
4	1338249600	I am so disappointed, the pump for the raindrop design water bowl I purchased has quit working in under a week.I bought two water bowls, the Big Max (which is currently still working) and the small raindrop design.  This is annoying and makes me wonder if I should just send them both back and go with the plastic style bowls I had before.  At least the pumps lasted for a few years.  I have 4 cats, travel often,  and need water bowls that work while I am awayUPDATE:  I called the Customer Service number today and Diane walked me through the procedure to the get the pump operating again.The pump had to be taken apart including removing the impeller which is held magnetically in place.  This was the problem, once it was removed, rinsed and put back in place, it worked great again.  Pretty simple procedure and now that I know what to do if it stops operating again, I felt compelled to change my negative review.  The cats really do like the water fountain, especially the Big Max.  I will keep both water bowls and hope this is the last of any issues with the operation.  I appreciate the good customer service offered by Diane at Pioneer Pet.UPDATE:  Still working and providing fresh water for my pets.  Knowing how to take the pump apart to clean is essential.  Regular cleaning is important.  4/28/13
1	1338076800	I selected this pet fountain because it was all stainless steel, less friendly to bacteria and had a nice fountain design.  When assembled and turned on the fountain makes an VERY annoying rattle and hum.  The strong but light weight metal top acts as a resonance chamber that continually gets louder up the three second mark and then maintains a loud hum the drives the cats away an me to insanity.  When I firmly press down on the lid the sound gets much lower and becomes acceptable.  When I take the lid off of the fountain it is completely quiet except for the light gurgling sounds of the water (perfect).  In short, the metal lid vibrates like a drum and is way too noisy for cats and humans.Be aware that the manufacture recommends that you change the filter every two to four weeks, i.e., you will need 13 to 26 filters / year ($$$, the same as all other fountains I suspect).I am considering purchasing a less acoustically dynamic ceramic fountain next time.
4	1337904000	OK, from the other reviews, it seems I may be the only person who had a hard time getting this puppy to work. Two tips - 1) be sure the spout on the filter lines up to the spout on the clam shaped housing unit, which must line up to the spout on the upper lid of the bowl. (This sounds like common sense, but it turned out my filter was already fastened into the housing unit, and I didn't pay attention to the fact it need to be removed and repositioned -- very easy to do). 2) be sure the water level is near the top. It needs to be higher than the housing unit to operate effectively.Here is a link to the manufacturer's short video to trouble shoot if you encounter problems as I did. [...]So far, the cat seems a bit offput by this new unit. But I am confident she'll be just fine with it, and she's an absolute "fraidy" cat. I recently saw an article on the importance of fresh water for your cat's health, and I ordered this right away. So far, so good!
5	1337817600	My cats love it. I love the shape and it is functional. Cleaning is easy and I have had it for 3 months now and there is no problem. Very quiet and although a bit pricey, I would say it's worth it.
1	1336780800	*************Updated Review:DO NOT PURCHASE FROM THIS COMPANY. They are a total scam. After filing a complaint with the Wisconsin consumer protection department, I got a reply from Pioneer Pets that was full of fabrications and lies. This company DOES NOT stand behind their products or provide any customer service. Furthermore, if you buy their product on Amazon, they will say you're not even their customer at all, but rather, Amazon's. What crap! Save yourself the time and money and DO NOT patronize this lousy company. They are liars and make an inferior and defective product. Seriously, go to an aquarium store and ask them how to use a bubbler -- same thing in any bowl you want much cheaper and it actually works and you won't be treated like crap. Good luck!************Original Review:All I can really say is save your money. I bought this on Feb. 12, 2012. I got it up and running as soon as it arrived. My cats were skeptical, but not so much as my husband. His words, "waste of $40," however, I was vindicated when all three of our cats began to take to it within a few weeks. Then, the motor went out. Mind you, I'd had the thing less than 6 weeks, cleaned it daily and deep cleaned it twice weekly, had replacement filters, the works. I called the company and was told they'd send out a new plug and bubbler piece. I waited. Nothing arrived. I called back, was again told they'd send a replacement part, waited a week this time and still nothing. Finally, on the third call I got someone to give me a tracking number of the replacement part they were sending me. Meanwhile, my cats are without this new water source for over a month now, and my return period is gone. The new part arrived three days ago, and worked fine for two days, and is now dead. Apparently the cord or plug or bubbler is defunct and doesn't work. I am so beyond frustrated! I am going to call the company and see if they'll refund me my money. Then, I'm going to my local aquarium store and buying some bubblers and some cool bowls and making my own fountain. Save your money and time as the product is obviously not meant to last long and the customer service is horrible, just horrible!
5	1336435200	This is our second purchase of the Pioneer Pet stainless steel water fountain.  After our first purchase, the cat (a large Maine coon) and dog were competing over the use of a single fountain --- so we set up a second fountain in another part of the house! They seem to love the bubbling action, and both were immediately attracted to the fountain.Expect to invest 10 minutes once per week cleaning the fountain (and replacing filters when necessary), but between cleanings the water seems appealingly clean to both pets. At the weekly cleanings, we put the plastic parts in a bleach water solution to minimize any mildew problems. Most of the fountain parts can be placed in the dishwasher for thorough cleaning.Our pets now drink from the "ordinary" water bowls only when their Pioneer Pet fountains are out-of-commission during weekly clean-ups.  Our pets love these fountains!
5	1336348800	To resolve the noise problem that some people have complained about, there's an easy fix. This is caused when the pump spout and the lid gasket aren't aligned correctly which causes the lid to rattle when the fountain is on because the lid is not seated flush with the bowl. Simply slide the case that houses the pump slightly towards the middle of the bowl then put the lid back on and press on the lid to see if it moves or is flush with the bowl. Once it's flush, no more rattle when the pump is turned on! Once you figure out the correct position, it's easy to do it again the next time you clean it.It took a little while for my cat to adjust to the Pioneer Pet Fountain but once he did, he stared drinking more water, which is a real plus for an elderly kitty. One comment about getting your pet used to it, make sure the pet understands there's water in there and on the slide. My elderly cat with poor eyesight didn't 'get it' until I splashed the water a few times with my finger and let him see the water splash around in the bowl and on the slide. Of all the fountains I've tried over the years, this one is by far the easiest to clean (less nooks and crannies) so I'm thrilled to have it and my cat seems to love having the option of drinking from the slide or the bowl.For those of you expecting a spouting fountain, might be disappointed, it's more like a bubbler than a spout of water but it does a great job of circulating the water to keep it fresh and oxygenated. The filter isn't perfect but that's the case on all the pet fountains I've tried over the years. It keeps the majority of stuff out of the motor but I still have to occasionally pick out some pet hair from the yellow gear that pushes the water through the motor. It's pretty easy to clean it with a pair of tweezers, so you don't have to take the motor apart. Plus it will extend the life of the motor.
1	1336262400	I was reasembling the pet fountain when I cut my finger on one of the unrounded edges.  It appears some of the pieces of the Pet fountain that are not rolled over are quite sharp.  As your pet is drinking from this fountain I would not advise buying this Fountain and I would NOT suggest buying this AT ALL.Their Extra large pet fountain works provided you get the black model but I would avoid the metal fountains from this company as they clearly do not have the proper attention to detail to deliver that product.
1	1335916800	This product is not good,when I first purchased this product it did not have enough flow to go through the top of the cover to form a spout. And now less than six months it does not work. I would not recommend buying this product you are wasting your money.....
2	1335744000	While my cats love this fountain and I bought it thinking it'd last for quite some time given it's stainless steel, I was wrong.  Just two months after purchasing and past the return time, it's already rusting!  When I called the company to inquire about it, they are willing to replace the part that's rusting, but state it's not guaranteed not to rust only that it's rust resistent!  Well if it's rusting after two months how rust resistent can it be?  I would return this product if I still could, but can only hope it won't rust anymore.  For the price and given this issue, I would not recommend this product.
5	1335657600	I purchased this product 2 months ago and it works really well.  It's very quiet (I live in a condo without children) and my kitten loves to drink from it.  The light hum does get slightly louder when the water runs lower, but I just make sure to add new water every couple days and this avoids the louder hum.  I've cleaned it a couple times now and it is SO easy.  It comes apart quick and the body of it is dishwasher safe.  I love this product and would buy it again.
4	1335312000	I had this for almost a year and had no trouble with the function of this unit.  My cats all adapted quickly to using it and I felt it was well worth the money and piece of mind know the cats were having access to a good water supply.  I have recently replaced it with the ceramic fountain of the same design.  Our water is very hard with lots of mineral deposits and the stainless was very hard to keep clean.  Since I keep this in a guest bathroom I wanted it to look neat and clean.  I finally gave up trying to keep the deposits off of it and ordered the ceramic which is wonderful!  I recommend both of them and continue to use the stainless just in another area of the house.  Well made and well designed product.
4	1335312000	I decided to wait a couple of weeks before writing my review, since there were a few iffy reviews about it.Pros: Nice appearance, minimum number of components, nice water flow.Cons: Fussy component setup, instuctions not entirely clearWhen I first set it up, I did not line things up properly, and it would not flow.  Looking at the instructions, there's nothing about how to specifically orient things.  After realigining the pump inside the housing, it worked just fine.The pump itself is very quiet, and the only real noise is from the water flowing... unless, here comes the fussy component part.  If the upper housing shifts, the water flowing down it will cause it to vibrate against the lower bowl which make for amazingly annoying metal-on-metal tinny noise.  Shifting the upper housing back ino place fixes it, but if your pet likes to mess with that upper piece, be prepared to do frequent adjusting.  That's really the only complaint I have about this sytem, it's an improvemnt over the Drinkwell fountain I used to have, which had what felt like a million and one pieces.  This has six, lower bowl, upper housing, pump, filter, and 2 piece pump/filter housing.I am very happy with this purchase so far.
4	1335225600	Continuous flow encouraged a fussy cat to drink more plus she is entertained with bubbling, flowing water. Other two cats also use fountain. First one was ceramic which broke during shipping.  Ability to put in dishwasher, quiet operation and overall small size of fountain are pluses. Filters are a bit expensive and messy cats tend to drop dry food into water making a water change and washing more often a must.  Hard water scale on metal parts is easily removed with vinegar.
5	1335052800	I adopted my two cats May of 2010.  Since then, I have only seen them drink water like maybe 5 times.  Of course, when I'm not around they probably drink water.  But ever since I bought this water bowl, I see them drinking water everyday pretty much for long periods.  I don't know what it is about this bowl, but they seem to love it.  It is also easy to clean.  The only downfall with this bowl and every other fountain is to maintain the filter every month.  Other than that, I give this a 10!
2	1334880000	At it's current selling price, this is one relatively expensive water dish.  Is it worth it?  When I chose it, I hoped so. One of my two cats was becoming picky about drinking water and I hoped the bubbling design would peak his curiousity.  At first both cats were turned off to the motor noise but eventually the female started to use the dish, but preferred a standard water dish. I wondered why both cats would try to drink but got turned off to using the dish, I assumed it was the motor noise so I waited a few months to see what would happen (and held off writing this review).After careful observation I see now what's happening.  It's not the motor noise, it's the design of the bowl itself.  I wonder how a company can make a water dish without understanding one of the first basics of cats ... they don't want to stick their faces into places that are smaller than their whisker span.  Duh.  The artsy design of this dish makes the actual drinking area extremely tiny and odd teardrop shaped, with a high wall (the water slide) imposingly placed adjacent to the bowl.  The cats just can't get their faces close to the water without their whiskers being squished and an unfriendly surface blocking their view (cats also need to be in control for protection against the unknown, the high wall prevents that).Yesterday after cleaning the bowl I had the idea of setting the motor to the lowest speed and leaving the fancy curvy top off.  Success!  It is much more cat friendly now and still has the bubbling effect.  But that leaves me with a very expensive plain water dish.As others have noted, I suspect this is not really stainless steel but rather chrome plated metal. Even with soft, filtered water the surface stains and scales something terrible and is not easy to clean.  I don't know why, but as others have noted it also gets slimy very fast (faster than a standard water dish), I suspect it's because the water is trapped under the metal cover and can't "breathe".  I finally ran it through the dishwasher and had to spend a half hour scrubbing it by hand after that.Looking back at the other bubbling water dishes, most have a large easy to access water surface (like the same company's Big Max).  I should have seen the issue as soon as I looked at the photos, there is no logic at all for having such a tiny teardrop shaped water surface ... it's purely design over function and it makes this a poor choice for a feline water dish.[ADDENDUM] After I wrote this review I decided to remove the motorized pump entirely.  Now without the odd top cover and the whirring sound of a motor my cats love this dish. The picky one drinks from it regularly throughout the day. And the water doesn't get slimy. I could have (and should have) just bought a stainless steel dog dish for a fraction of the price. I'm leaving it at two stars which means "I don't like it" rather than one star for "I hate it".
5	1334707200	I have a very picky Kitty who doesn't drink enough water.  This took her a few days to work up the courage to try and now she loves it!  At first it was a bit noisy, but then I realized you must keep the water level up and then it's totally quiet.  It's a nice reminder to refill it and/clean it out.  The fountain is also a nice "Feng Shui" addition to the room.  I'd recommend this to people who's kittie's aren't drinking enough water.  You can tell by the stool that her water intake has improved.
5	1334534400	The cats love it and have stopped trying to drink my water/the toilet water/the shower water. It holds a good amount of water and is fairly easy to clean.
2	1334275200	I bought this fountain because I thought it would be a good replacement for my cat's plastic fountain that was hard to clean.  This one is easier to clean but that doesn't matter when she doesn't drink out of it.  (Beware when cleaning tho, I sliced my finger when scrubbing the top part.  The metal edges can be sharp.)  I have had it for almost 3 months and I have yet to see her use it.  She would rather go down stairs and drink out of *gulp* the dog's dish!  It is also very noisy.  Wish I would have returned it earlier but I am now out of my return window.  Another $40 down the drain.
3	1333584000	It's a great fountain. However, what happens when one of the small plastic parts breaks on the fountain pump? They don't seem to sell these separately--for this brand at least.  So, the options are, (1) buy another fountain pump brand and hope it works, or (2) get a brand new fountain and start swapping out the parts.When I first got the fountain, I contacted their customer service to see if they had a PDF of their user instructions available (this is pretty much a standard offering these days). They told me they didn't, and closed the email with the comment, "have a nice day."Many a great product has been wrecked by poor customer service.Again, the fountain is good, but the support from the parent company seems lackluster.
3	1333497600	My cat does like this fountain, which is a big plus. However it is much bigger than I thought it would be, esp for one cat. It does need to be cleaned pretty frequently or the sides get a little slimy. The main negative is that the fountain does not always work properly. Sometimes I need to plug and replug several times before it starts working. Also sometimes it is quiet but other times loud, without changing any settings which I don't understand. I guess for over $50 I expected more...
3	1333411200	Stainless steel is not stainless.  It has gotten scaling from the water that does not come off.  It is noisy when water level gets low but it does not splash.  The pump has a lever that controls how high the water is kicked up.  I had the plastic Drinkwell and it is difficult to keep clean.  This one is easy to take apart and get into the nooks and crannies.
4	1333411200	This pet fountain has been easy to clean and maintain. My cats took a few days to adjust from the previous Drinkwell fountain, but now they love it. I had to put it on top of a small bath mat, as one of my cats likes to go "fishing" in the open dish if he sees anything floating in there, splashing water all over the floor. The small rubber-backed cotton bath mat has taken care of absorbed spills and keeps the fountain from moving around. Now, my cat likes to lounge by the fountain on the mat.The only negative with the product's top resting on the base without anything to hold it in place is that the cat can knock it out of alignment, causing the fountain to become very noisy. A little adjustment fixes the issue.
2	1333238400	I bought two of these first this model then the bigger one.  I cleaned it every week and the pump still gave out after a month.  Maybe I cleaned it too often?  I would love for this to work but even if I don't clean the filter every month I still think your should change the water out weekly at least.
5	1333152000	I had been using Drinkwell fountains for years. What I hated about them was the cleanup and the slime in the water after a week. What finally made me look for an alternative though was that Drinkwell was ruining my wood floors. Anytime the reservoir tipped over or the o ring seal failed I'd have a water disaster. Got one of the Raindrop fountains, and wow! What a difference. Cleans up in seconds, no slime in the water after two full weeks with no cleaning. I worried that without a reservoir I'd have to refill often to avoid grinding the motor. Turns out that wasn't the case. I can add water every few days and maintain a good level. 5 star product. Bought another one today and Drinkwells going in the trash.
5	1333152000	My four-year-old cat, Indy, stopped drinking from his bowls, so I was concerned about the health effects, especially a urinary track infection. For a male cat, this is too offend fatal. I knew he preferred to drink from the neighbor's pool--not healthy--so a researched various cat fountains on the market. The hands-down winner was Pioneer Pet's Stainless Steel Raindrop design. I checked it out at the local pet store, before buying it with Amazon.com Prime (no postage & handling, and the best overall price; about $40 compared with $55-$75 anywhere else). In sturdy steel (no cat acne as with plastic) it was a work of art. Better yet, it worked as beautifully as it looked. Within the first day or two, Indy was drinking four- or five-fold the amount of water as before. And its design makes it easy to clean. I could not be more pleased.Here's a hint on how to save money, energy, and wear-and-tear on the pump and filters: I bought a SensorPlug (with Amazon.com Prime, of course) for about $10 counting my points. I have it plugged into the outlet above Indy's heated cubicle in the garage where he sleeps (he's an outdoor cat, except for afternoon naps and at night). Now, when he gets up for a drink, the fountain turns on automatically using its motion sensor, then runs for 10 minutes or until he goes back to bed. The pump only pulls about three watts (the infared sensor needs 5-7 watts to work properly), so you'll need to buy a short, three-holed outlet bar (less than $4) at the hardware and plug a four watt nightlight into the SensorPlug along with the plug from the Raindrop fountain to make it work.Along with my Petzzzpad (which heats up to 102 degrees, but only when the cat is lying on it) inside the carpet-lined, 16"-diameter heavy cardboard, concrete form I turned into a cold-weather sleeper for him, my cat is good to go.Do-it-yourself is the only way to fly. I have plans for the cubicle, modular cat furniture, and an economical scratching post available on Kindle eBooks if anyone is interested (amazon.com/author/brads).
5	1333152000	Quieter than a laptop cooling fan.No rubber smell (after cleaning the parts in the dishwasher).Great size for a 9lb. cat and a 16lb. dog (Westie).I was a little hesitant about purchasing this fountain, because I wasn't sure it really would be big enough for my dog. It is perfect! The raindrop shape of the bowl is about 4" wide (front to back) and 6" long (side to side). My dog's 1qt bowl is about 5" in diameter, so this raindrop isn't too drastic a difference. Her muzzle fits easily when she drinks. She prefers the bowl portion of the fountain, but the cat drinks out of both the bowl and the burbler/slide portion.I also hesitated, because of other reviews about rubber odor and motor sounds. I am super sensitive to certain noises, and was worried that the motor noise would drive me crazy. Fortunately, the motor is very quiet. We started the pump on the lowest setting, and have increased it to the halfway mark. The motor is not even as loud as a laptop fan (the sound when a computer is working too hard, and the fan kicks into high gear).We do notice the water sounds. The trickle of water burbling out of the fountain and down the slide is similar to the sound our cat makes when she laps water. It is also similar to the sound of a faucet that didn't get turned off all the way. It is a slight sound, and is actually somewhat pleasant. I'm sure we will eventually get used to it, and stop thinking we need to check the faucet for a leak.I did not want my cat (or dog) to be affected by the rubber smell. There was only a faint odor when I sniffed it (fresh out of the package). I carefully read through all the instructions, and then proceeded to clean this fountain. I ran all the parts (except the motor) through the dishwasher in order to sterilize them and to remove any residual manufacturing odors.After filling the bowl with fresh water, I set it on the floor in our cat's usual water bowl location. I removed her other water bowl (and our dog's water bowl) to help motivate the cat to drink from this new one. We did NOT plug in the fountain until AFTER she had shown that she would drink from the fountain. After she had her first drink, I plugged in the fountain. She seemed intrigued by the burbling, and has accepted this as her new water dish.Our dog, a 16lb. Westie, was a little hesitant. However, she and the cat generally drink out of each other's water bowls anyway. Our dog is paranoid, and (at first) didn't want to be around the new water dish. After she saw the cat drink out of it, she decided it was safe.The only water mess happens as a result of our dog drinking out of this bowl. Her beard always drips water when she gets a drink, so I already expected drips on the floor (and had a mat in place to catch them). There is NOT any splashing of water as it burbles up out of the pump and down the slide. I followed the directions to start it on the lowest setting (barely made any burbling movement), and have only moved it to the halfway setting. I don't know how it would do on high, but have no intentions of changing the setting.The halfway setting attracts our cat, and that was the main purpose in purchasing a fountain in the first place. Poor kitty has uric crystals. She only has one functional kidney, so we really want to prevent her from getting to the point of having bladder stones. She has been drinking more frequently, because it is hard for her to resist the siren call of water moving.I like the stainless steel construction of this fountain.There are filters available via "subscribe and save".
5	1332547200	Have had about 2 months .  Works great.  Very easy to clean which i like.  Wish it had an on/off switch, i plugged it into an extwnsion cord that does.  I mainly just have it on at night.  Plenty of capacity for our lone cat, and the dog doesn't take an interest (you'd need something bigger for a dog).  Cat drank from it immediately and he is picky about always having running water.I find i need to clean and refill every two to three days or the cat loses interest.  Fortunately it only takes a minute.I got this to keep the cat from waking  me up at 5am to get me to run a sink faucet.  Works beautifully for that.
2	1332547200	My first attempt at this fountain was complete failure...sure, the pump was silent, mostly because it wasn't working.  So I exchanged it for a new one.  Even on the lowest setting, this new pump is louder than the a/c units sitting outside my window.  The noise doesn't seem to bother one cat, but the other refuses to go near it.  Granted, it could be the lack of "waterfall" and not the noise that keeps her from using it, but the noisy pump irritates me to no end.  This one is going to have to be returned.
5	1332547200	Quiet, well made and easy to clean, this attractive pet fountain has proven to be far superior to other watering systems we have tried. Thus far, we have not encountered any downside in this product and, as a result, recommend it highly.  And the review system at Amazon is most commendable. It assisted us in making what turned out to be a great decision.
2	1332374400	My cats love to drink from the sink and since I don't like plastic drinking fountains I thought this was a great idea.  My cats were a little leery of the design at first so I set it out without the pump on until they got used to it.  Once I turned on the pump, one cat used it and the other was scared of it.  The scared one might've gotten used to it, but I didn't wait to find out.I'm returning it because the pump is so noisy I can hear it in half the house.  I had it set up in the kitchen, where I spend a lot of time.  To say the sound was annoying is an understatement.  I even had it set up on a little rug to buffer the sound, but that didn't help because it's the pump that's noisy.  It has 4 pump speed settings and I tried them all.  I did have the water at the level the manufacturer recommended.I was disappointed in the quality of the stainless steel as well.  I'm going back to my ant proof stainless steel bowl.  It's easy to clean, looks a lot nicer and doesn't make any noise.
5	1332374400	I paid $89 for exactly this fountain and it was well worth the money. We have a cat who had to have bladder stones removed a year and a half ago. We tried the vet's suggestion to feed the urinary tract food. The cat broke out in hives from all the corn in the expensive food. We tried acidifiers, the cat threw up.Finally, we got a second opinion. The second opinion vet sent us a list of ways to get your cat to drink more water. One of the items was a bubbly fountain.We went out that day and bought one from a local pet store for the list price. I have zero complaints.Our cats all love the fountain. Some drink from the top where the water is bubbliest and others drink from the pool area where the water is still. The fountain's quieter than the plastic ones friends own and it's lighter than the ceramic fountains that the company also offers. Note: you're going to need to pick up this fountain once a week or more to clean it out, the stainless is MUCH lighter than ceramic.Yes, we've been very pleased with this product, but we're going to buy a backup fountain from Amazon, because it's HALF the price.Rebecca Kyle, March 2012
3	1332115200	The fountain is lightweight and the downstream was attractive to one of our cats.  The filtration system seems to work well and it's easy to set up.  But even after having the motor replaced by the manufacturer, it was still way too noisy (likely because it's stainless from what I've researched)-- even after repositioning it, etc.  The edges of the bowl were slightly sharp compared to other fountains we've used and the opening for drinking was too small for my cats' heads (they are larger breed cats but just couldn't use it at all).  The larger version of the item might be better for larger cats or even smaller dogs.
1	1331942400	The product worked fine, but the pump gave out after 1 month. The filter wasn't clogged with debris, it's just a cheap product. I may try to buy another, better pump, but for $40, it should last at least a little while.
5	1331596800	We have been using this fountain  for six months now, and our cat finally switched from the bowl to drinking from the falling water channel.  We  recently forgot to check the water level and discovered the pump had stopped completely, and the motor  was not even humming.  I thought Oh No!  The pump is burned out.  However after following the YouTube video  and disassembling the motor, I discovered that mineral scale from the overheated water had deposited on the magnetic shaft of the pump spinner.  After  cleaning some of this scale off with an abrasive pad, I used a manicure emory board to sand down the rest of the  white scale to the black magnetic finish.  After cleaning up the intake and reassembly the pump is running like new.  I suspect even running low on water occasionally may lead to such scale deposits and degrade pump performance,  since this scale is less soluble in warm water than it is in  cold water and our pump had been slowly losing flow.  Now it is back to like new! Took about 15 minutes to clean the scale off!
5	1331510400	I've had this fountain about a month now, and it's a keeper. I've tried two other pet fountains in the past, both plastic, and I must say this one makes me feel better about being healthier for both my cat and dog. Since it is made of stainless steel, it is so easy to clean...just a few minutes compared to much longer with the fountains that have all the nooks and crannies. My pets love the fountain. And the water level needs to be replaced every day, so I know they're drinking a lot. My cat has FUTD and I needed a way to encourage him to drink more water, and this does the trick. I have no issues with rattling, as I've read others say...nor leaking. Sometimes my cat will play with the water a little bit which results in a small puddle on the floor, but there's no way to prevent that.
5	1331510400	One of our cats has trouble with UTIs.  A friend recommended a pet fountain to encourage him to drink water. I bought this particular pet fountain based on the positive reviews.  When I first set the fountain up, my cat was so afraid of it, he ran downstairs and hid behind the filing cabinet.  However, as curiosity got the best of him, he ventured back upstairs and began the process of staring at it from afar, inching up closer and closer over the next two days.  Finally, on the evening of the third day, he took his first drink and then he was hooked!  He now drinks from it all the time and he drinks much more water than before. I can tell his urine is not so concentrated. I would highly recommend this fountain to anyone who has a cat with a similar problem.  The fountain itself is sleek and easy to put together.  I have it set on the lowest setting and have no trouble with splashing.  I have a plastic mat under it, but it never gets wet.
1	1331510400	i am editing my review because the pump on this thing died after 10 months of use. what a waste! i am looking into buying a replacement pump, but i see they're probably going to be about $20, so add that much more to the cost of this little guy. i kept the water level at the recommended height, but i did notice the water not flowing as well a few months ago. if i jiggled the cord it would get quieter and work better. i think the pump must be the cheapest thing ever. maybe a pond pump would do a better job... going to look into that and will report back!This was my original review:OMG this thing is SO LOUD. and not a pretty sound. the motor emits an unattractive grrr sound. but kitty likes her fresh water, and it is easy to clean. it also has a weird footprint - you pretty much need at least 180 degree access, which means a big space (at least in our small house it seems big) for kitty to get to it. the fountain is in front and the bowl is in back, so if i turn it just right she can get to either part, but it's still rather hoggy in the food tray department.
5	1331424000	I was a bit worried about how loud this fountain would be, but was pleasantly surprised that the motor is very silent. The filter cartridge is extremely accessible and easy to assemble, and the product itself disassembles into easy to clean, dishwasher safe parts! The teardrop design does allow the water to flow silently down into the main pool so if you're looking for a pet fountain that also contributes to a "white background noise", this will not satisfy the latter, unless the main pool gets low on water levels, which is not recommended for the product anyhow. Overall, with the sleek, non-bulky design, this is one of the best additions to a home for pet equipment I've purchased.
3	1331424000	I like the fact that it's stainless so it seems clean vs. plastic.  I find the design is complicated when putting together and especially when taking apart to clean. The water starts getting slimy sooner than I expected even though I use well-filtered water (Aquasana sink filter). Then you have to pull the electric cord through the small hole to unplug the filter.  I also think the filter change so often is annoying AND expensive.  I like having bubbling water for the cats, but not sure I'd buy it as designed - if I'd seen it in person. Design needs improvement.
5	1331251200	I was concerned that my kitten was not drinking enough.  I never saw the cat drink a dropof water from a bowl in the month I had him before purchasing this product.When I first set up the fountain he was curious but more about the water bubbling than anythingelse. It does make a bit of noise also which was a curiousity factor.  After a few dayshe was drinking from the bowl and I was delighted to see how much and how often.  He has taken well to it.I would recommend it.  As for the reviews regarding the items longevity, I can not make a review on thatbecause it's now only a couple of weeks old.  I am hoping it lasts for a good while.
1	1331078400	Ordered the stainless steel model for my two pups but only after a couple months the pump would no longer work.  I cleaned it often as instructed and also ordered additional filters which are of no use now.  I would NOT recommend this product to anyone and it is now a paper weight in the garage.  I wrote the Company, with NO reply. Surprise surprise. The specific detail I would have liked to know before I ordered it would have been:  DISPOSABLE WATER DISH
5	1330992000	My kittens took to this right away. I washed it thoroughly when I got it but then they immediately started using it. I make sure I don't let the water get low because the motor shouldn't be exposed. I've only had it a couple weeks, but it seems durable.
5	1330992000	The first time I filled it up my cat began to drink from the fountain immediately. I've never seen him drink that much from a sink, toilet, or water-bowl at one time.  The device makes minimal noise, but if  it is less than 95% full the pump is noticeably loud. My cat is still pleased and I would recommend this product to any cat owner.
5	1330905600	After much research, I've found that this is one of the most recommended cat fountains. The reason for replacing my other one is b/c it was plastic and I found that ceramic and stainless steel containers are better for cats. This was easy to assemble and will be easy to clean.
5	1330732800	As soon as I received this in the mail, we set it up. The cats were curious right away, and were going over to check it out. After realizing what it was the immediately loved it and now I feel so much better knowing that they're drinking more & healthier water. Excellent item at an excellent price, I would highly recommend this product !!
5	1330732800	This is a really nice drinking fountain for cats.  We have two cats and they both seem to really like it.  You just have to make sure you refill it every one or two days maximum, or else the motor could dry run which is bad!
5	1330732800	Get this fountain!  Being a Medical Doctor, I was surprised none of my Veterinarians suggested a water fountain for my cat.  Please tell your Vet about my and other people's success in getting our cats to drink more for their health. This is the same fountain model 6023 marketed by Pioneer Pet at a higher price than this one.  In other words, this is a better buy.Four and a half years ago one cat developed "sterile cystitis" with pain when urinating. He decreased water consumption and developed chronic dry poop. The Veterinarian visits with tests and treatment costs went sky high.  Vets had me trying all sorts of "treatments":  years of meds, sweet syrup 2x a day to encourage water drinking and countless expensive food trials with cries in pain from dry poop. Why no Vet suggested this (any) water fountain, I don't know.  It works in getting him to drink enough water and finally no cries and a happy, healthy kitty.  This fountain solved all his problems. He loves drinking from the bubbling aerated fountain part.  He also likes to sit and watch the water bubble and I think he is maybe "meditating". It mesmerizes him: that alone gets him to go to the fountain more and drink more.  We've been using it for 9 months now. My second cat prefers to drink from the open bowl side. This works well so they both can drink at the same time and not be in each others' way.I'm getting this second one to put elsewhere in the house so they will drink even more during dry winter time.  It may not be necessary to have a second one, but cats tend to seek water wherever it is. Both cats love it. I love it.Make sure you change the filters often. I signed up for the free shipping, auto delivery of filters here on Amazon to remind me to change them and the price and convenience can't be beat, as far as I know.  Also regularly clean the bowl and fountain pump.  I have very hard water, which the cats prefer to filtered water, so I have to clean the bowl and pump regularly to insure it works well for years.  I only clean the pump every 3 to 5 months, but I really should and will clean the hard water deposits out more often to insure the pump lasts longer.  The stainless steel bowl is preferred because it resists bacteria and other organisms from growing.  Use a soft microfiber sponge or cloth to never scratch the bowl.  Use whatever works to not scratch the stainless steel so future cleaning goes smoothly and easily.Another tip: when you put the fountain back together, be sure the pump is lined up pointing to bubble through the hole.  They make it easy to line up if you pay attention.  You can even adjust the pump to bubble higher or lower.  That's a nice feature.  When you put it back together with water and start it, give it 5 to 10 minutes to start bubbling and always make sure you run the pump with water full in the bowl. If you don't, you could burn out the pump.  The pump is like those found to bubble in fish tanks.  Another feature they don't mention is the cord is long to reach an outlet and you can unplug the cord via a female-male in line plug close to the fountain.  This way you don't have to mess with the long 7 1/2 ' cord when moving it to  clean; this makes it easier to clean.I hope this helps others.  If your cat has the problems my cat had, try it and then let your Vet know what a great solution it can be to encourage water drinking.  Or even better, even if your cats don't have these problems, please educate as many Veterinarians as possible about fountains for cats needing to drink more. Being a Medical Doctor, I always appreciate hearing from my patients what helps them.  Good health to your beloved animal companions!
2	1330128000	I initially bought this because of the "anti-bacterial" promise of the stainless steel make. One of my cats has feline herpes and gum disease but my other does not so I am always worried about him passing his germs to her. This water fountain works no better than the $20 fountain I had initially purchased from PetCo, except this one is a little easier to clean because there are no tight corners. It is a pain in the a** to put it together and the filter keeps popping out of place. The motor is also REALLY loud and kind of freaks my cats out - even though I have it filled to the brim with water, it is still buzzing loudly. Plus the reservoir at the bottom isn't affected by the motor so if anything gets in it, it doesn't get sucked up by the motor and forced through the filter. Not impressed.
4	1329609600	I like this because it is stainless steel and a decent size (but not to large) water capacity.  I was using another pet fountain that was plastic and I just felt like it was time to change to something better.  The stainless steel does not get a dirty as the plastic.  The plastic would build up a scum layer much quicker then the steel does.  I was cleaning the plastic one in the sink every other day and this steel one only need to be cleaned once a week.  I did have one issue where the pump stopped pumping water.  I eventually managed to unblock it.  I think a little bit of something got stuck in the pump and was causing it to be blocked.  It has only happen the one time.  So far I recommend this product.
4	1329523200	I have had MANY pet H2O fountains and this was and is still the best. 1st because the motor is NOT in the water. Any other fountain has the motor immersed in water and this is just not good. The latest fountain was the stainless steel fountain and motor failed after 4 months. Never mind the filters getting clogged within 3 days. The drinkwells also have motors immersed in water. The bubbler is easy to clean and my cats like the bubbles. I'm coming back Bubbler and my cats will thank me.
5	1329523200	I purchased the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel raindrop-design fountain to replace a Drinkwell Platinum fountain that my cats would no longer use.  It was an excellent choice, and even the cat who rarely used the other fountain is now using this one multiple times per day. This fountain is extremely quiet, super easy to wash and to assemble after cleaning. My only regret is that I didn't buy it sooner!
3	1329436800	Selected this stainless steel cat drinking bowl because this material is a superior choice for cleanliness and health, compared to plastic. It runs quietly. Filters the water of impurities great. Easy to clean. I love it. But, sadly, I have yet to see or be able to get kitty to drink from it. And I have creatively tried. The most he has done is stick his paw in it... unless he is sneaking water at night from it. We used to have a plastic Drinkwell fountain, which has more of a waterfall, and he loved that. I want this product to be a match and will give it a little more time.
5	1329264000	We had seen this Fountain while visiting our daughter.  Since we are away for extended times, we thought it might be good for our two cats.  After checking out the "plastic"models in our pet store for more money I checked out Amazon !  This model works great and looks great! VERY QUIET!
4	1329177600	After purchasing and trying the ceramic version of this fountain, I was skeptical but willing to try the stainless steel one.No over run or spilling and a much more quiet motor has made this one a keeper.Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel  Fountain Raindrop Design
5	1328832000	When I noticed that the litter box was not as wet as it used to be, I decided to try a fountain to encourage my guys to drink more.  I did ALOT of research on the different fountains and decided to try the Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Raindrop fountain. It arrive a couple of days after I ordered it. I cleaned it and put it together in about 15 minutes (that's reading the manual, cleaning and assembling!). Runs like a dream.Total bummer----my guys did not like it as much as I did. After a couple of weeks, I returned the fountain.  Having said that, it is a beautiful design with a nice flow.
1	1328832000	I purchased this cat water fountain on 10/19/2011.  The pump died on 2/8/2012.  The warranty on the pump is 90 days and it's made in China of course.  Now I have to ask myself, is it worth buying another pump for the filters I additionally purchased.  Oh yeah, the pump is not available on Amazon.  Good luck to the rest of you who may have purchased this item.
1	1328659200	This product is not worth buying.  It worked well for two months and then the pump gave out. Replacement pumps and shipping add up to just a few dollars less than the whole fountain purchased new.  If you don't want to replace the fountain every few months, don't buy this one!
5	1328659200	One of my cats used to drink from the bathroom faucet.  She enjoyed drinking from a stream of water.  As a result I have purchased and used three Drinkwell Platinum Pet Fountains for my cats over the past 5 years.  I liked the reservoir, the stream of water, but did not enjoy cleaning it.  I felt it was never really clean enough.  The last one developed a constant odor and finally the lever that controlled the strength of the water stream broke.  I had started to look into buying a fountain made out of another material - ceramic or stainless steel, both made by Pioneer.  I found the prices varied considerably and decided upon the stainless steel fountain from Pioneer and purchased it from Amazon at the best price.I have three cats that enjoyed drinking from the Drinkwell fountain.  The Fountain Raindrop fountain doesn't have a stream of water.  The water bubbles up from the pump and runs down a ramp into the main bowl.  Regardless, all of my cats seem to enjoy drinking from the new fountain.  One drinks from where the waters bubbles.  Another drinks from the ramp.  The other drinks from the bowl.The Raindrop fountain is made up of two main parts, making it extremely easy to clean.  The stainless steel does not collect algae, bacteria, etc. as the plastic fountain.  You can put the fountain in the dishwasher.  It comes out sparkling.  I expect this fountain will last a long time.A negative point concerns the two metal parts making up the main part of the fountain.  The two pieces rest metal against metal, which at times causes the fountain to make a rattling noise.  This issue is resolved by finding the correct water level and maintaining that level, or making sure that one of the cats didn't move the top piece out of place while it was drinking.
5	1327968000	My feline friend LOVES running water and sometimes becomes rather demanding at the sink. This fountain fit the bill for my most important requirements:-Made of a material that I wouldn't worry about harboring bacteria-Easy to clean-Not scare off my catI found this right when we were moving, and I was hesitant to try to introduce him to a new home AND drinking apparatus but I have to say - he warmed right up to it.I watched any clip I could find of the weird bubbling fountain aspect of this product, and I honestly thought there was no way my cat (or others for that matter) would be interested in this - but I put my trust in the reviews (thanks!) and it's a winner!Cleaning is super easy. I'm a little intense and clean it once a week - regardless of how often you clean it, it's a piece of cake. I even foolishly read the directions for assembly/cleaning - all unnecessary. You figure it out very quickly.If you are even thinking of buying a water fountain for your cat to beverage on, this is hands down the BEST option.Note: For some reviewers that said the top was light/their cats flung it off- I have had no such problems. If you shimmy it in flush enough (which is not hard at all) - you should be back in business!
5	1327881600	Our cat needed this - he constantly runs to the bathroom to drink out of the tub or faucet, or outside he follows us around the garden trying to drink out of the hose.As soon as we assembled the fountain (very easy) and filled it with water, he walked over and took a drink.  I could see his mind thinking "it's about time!"  He likes to drink out of the bubbling part of the fountain, as it moves the most.  Our two other cats - more timid - are also drinking out of this fountain now that they have gotten used to seeing it there on the floor.So the Good:  Stainless steel is the best material for a water basin, so bonus positive points for this fountain being made of stainless.  It was super easy to put together.  It is super easy to clean.  It is very quiet .... yes, when the house is silent at night I can hear it running when I am in the same room.  But it only makes a soft humming sound, not irritating or loud.  If the TV is on, or if I am at the other end of the room, I cannot hear it...I have good hearing.  The fountain has three places for cats to choose to drink; the little bubbling area at the top, the "slide" area that the water runs down, and the basin - for those cats who prefer a bowl-feel.The Bad: The only thing I can really say, which is not really "bad", is that sometimes there is a few drops of water on the floor.  I don't know if this is from drooling cats, or splashing water.  In either case, it isn't much water.  For me it hasn't mattered, because the very first day I put a nice rubber mat underneath the fountain so that my hardwood would be protected.  The water droplets have never been far enough from the fountain that they are off of the mat.So overall, this is a great pet product!  We are very happy with it ~ and most importantly, so are the cats!
5	1327795200	This is a great fountain! We purchased this for our four cats as a Christmas present to replace an old Drinkwell plastic fountain. At first they were a little hesitant to drink from it, we kept getting the "hey, what the heck is this thing?" look from them. Within about a day though, one started and then another, and another and then our most reluctant finally gave in after about a week. The fountain is super easy to put together and take apart for cleaning. And unlike our old one it will not contribute to plastic allergies. Over the last month it's become quite amusing to watch them drink, they all drink from the reservoir, but love to watch the bubbling from the top. Not only does it provide them fresh water but it entertains them at the same time! All in all this was a fantastic purchase and I'd buy it again in a heartbeat.
5	1327708800	THE PIONEER PET STAINLESS STEEL FOUNTAIN RAINDROP DESIGN IS GREAT FOR MY TWO FEMALE CATS.  ORIGINALLY PURCHASED TO ENCOURAGE MY CAT TO DRINK MORE WATER FOLLOWING A BLADDER INFECTION.  BOTH CATS LOVE THE FOUNTAIN.  THEY ARE DRINKING MORE WATER AND EVEN LOVE TO PLAY A LITTLE IN THE WATER.
5	1327363200	I have had them all.. the Drinkwell, the dome one, and another one.. all of them were plastic.. most were noisy.. and they all clogged and got icky.this one is WONDERFUl. Quiet.. easy to clean.. and I LOVE it.the best..
4	1327104000	Our last fountain was a store brand plastic fountain. This is definitely a step up from where we've come. I decided to go with stainless steel because I've heard it's better for cats than plastic and it's probably much easier to clean. The design is really modern and was not difficult to put together at all. I tend to not read directions so I rely on the pictures. It's very quiet. Our last fountain was not quiet at all but we got used to it, it was sort of relaxing at times. The only time I even notice the very low hum is late at night when I take my bathroom break and the apartment is dead quiet. The only thing I wasn't aware of, probably because I didn't read, is the water bubbles rather than spurts out like our old fountain. Kitty doesn't seem to mind and it still circulates the water. The bubbling also doesn't get the floor wet if we put too much water in the bowl so it's actually less work.
5	1326931200	I have a 1 year old Burmese male and a 7 month old female Maine Coon, and they absolutely love their water fountain! It took them about a day to get used to it, the stainless steel seemed to be distracting to them at first. They love to drink from the top bubble and the regular bowl, and they can both drink at the same time which I love. They definitely drink more water with this fountain and they get so excited when I fill it up between washings.I clean it once a week, and with only 3 parts...it is super easy to clean. I also lean the pump and rinse the filter with hot water when I clean.I have read a lot about people complaining about water splashing out and I have never had a problem with that with this fountain, and I fill it up over the rim. I do notice that I think my cats have trouble judging where the water line is with the stainless, so they always check with their paw first and shake the water off...hence the water splashing. Plus, my Maine Coon is obsessed with water and sometimes puts her whole paw in there to play.
2	1326067200	My cats  liked the fountain just fine, and it does clean easily. But the pump began breaking the first week. I nursed it along for 2 more weeks. Now it's dead.
3	1325980800	First, let me state that my cats love this thing when it works.  The when it works is the key.  Our first one lasted less than 1 week before the pump motor quit working.  Thanks to Amazon and their amazing customer service, they send me a new one.  The new one is performing as expected 1 week later.  Is this a necessity?  No.  Is it a semi-luxury item that when working your cats will enjoy, yes!  Our dogs, for what it's worth, just ignore it.
2	1325808000	This fountain looks great, certainly more attractive than the plastic models, but that's where the positives of it end.The fountain is loud with a vibrating sound and often the top piece rattles against the bottom piece so you end up with a metallic rattling noise.Since all of the water is always exposed to the air it evaporates pretty quickly, previously I had one with a tank and it had to be refilled much less frequently.If you turn the water pump to high it runs over the side of the fountain so you end up with puddles of water around the fountain.My cats don't seem to like this fountain as much as the plastic tank model that I had before.Overall save your money and go with one of the plastic tank models.
1	1325808000	I received the fountain in early Jan. 2012.  The pump quit working after only 3 months of use.  (i updated the review after the pump quit.)  We cleaned and replaced the filters per instructions.  The pets loved it and really increased their water intake, but it's pretty expensive for only 3 months of use. It seemed really quiet and the cat took to it right away. It took our Westie a couple of days to adjust to it.  I contacted the manufacturer and they will charge for the replacement pump, plus shipping.  On their website their guarantee is good only for 30 days.
2	1325548800	This fountain is a great concept, but it was far louder than I expected. This product should not be advertised as having an "ultra quiet pump"! (that is what it says on the box). It is far from quiet, let alone "ultra quiet". I was planning to keep this in my kitchen which is part of our living room/tv room but the noise would be constantly heard and drive me crazy. Also, i guess i was expecting this to have a soothing trickling sound to it, but the water makes absolutely no sound. All i hear is the motor. Unforunately going to have to return this product, which bums me out because I really wanted to give my kitties a drinking fountain. Guess they will have to stick to using the faucet water for fun drinking!
4	1325203200	I have two cats and used to own the plastic Petmate water fountain.  I bought this fountain when one of my cats developed chin acne - the recommended solution was to eliminate all plastic food and water dishes.Anyone who buys this after using the Petmate fountain will be a little disappointed, because the Petmate fountain is completely silent and this one is not. It makes kind of a low whirring sound that I quickly got used to.  The fountain is about ten feet from where I sit to watch TV, and if I have the TV on I can't hear the noise at all.  That's the only downside I've discovered so far (I've owned it about three weeks).  It doesn't splash, but the water does seem to evaporate more quickly than with the Petmate fountain.  I came home from work once and the pump was not drawing any water because the level had gotten too low.  Since then, I pay more attention to the water level and haven't had the same problem.  It's easy to assemble.  I've seen the replacement filters at a pet store for $10 for a package of three, which doesn't seem outrageous if you're replacing them once every month or two.Every cat is different, but my cats seem to like this fountain more than the Petmate one.  I see them drinking from it more frequently.  Also, the chin acne is starting to clear up.
1	1325203200	I am extremely unhappy with this product.  I used it for less than 45 days when it started humming and not pushing the water up thru the unit.  Yes, it is easy to clean but that is not helpful if the motor does not work well. It stopped working just beyond the acceptable return date so I am stuck with a $50 + pet fountain that does not work.
5	1325030400	My cat refused to drink from his water dish, instead drinking only from the sink, my glass, and whatever other source of fresh water he could get. This fountain dish solved that problem. It is quiet and looks nicer than the plastic fountains.
4	1324944000	Love it! Water quality is much better. Easy to assemble.Quiet. Only problem is that my dog is afraid of it. LOL. He is afraid of anything new though. Overall great product!!
2	1324684800	I have had mine up and running for about 2 months now.  Like alot of other reviews, my two Siamese took to it right away.  So from a functional standpoint, this item is user friendly...as long as the 'user' is the cat.  But from the human perspective, there are some flaws that I'm finding that are making this not such a friendly device to deal with on a regular basis.  I guess you can't avoid maintenance on an item like this.  Any time you have standing water, there will be a cleaning regimen that needs to be adhered to.  Coming from a 'feeder' style water container, there is a definite change in my cat maintenance routine.  So with that in mind, I would like to see some improvements on the design and the quality of materials used.The very first thing that popped into my mind upon assembling this product, was a concern about the cord.  My cats have a tendency to want to touch, swat, chase, or chew things that look interesting.  (Stupid me didn't think of this until the item shipped.)  It just so happens that the cord on this fountain is somewhat interesting to them.  In my situation, there is an area rug in the room with the fountain that leaves about a foot of exposed hardwood floor around the edges of the room.  So I can neatly tuck the cord under the rug.  But the cord still has to go up to the recepticle and about 2 feet is exposed.  So I wrap the cord around a post on their nearby cat condo up to the adapter in the wall.  But the cord is right at a spot where they like to walk through and rub their little scent glands against it.  Now...that's not so bad as they have yet to yank it out of the wall....and as long as the fountain remains in place.  But the recommendations for this fountatin are regular cleaning and rinsing of the filter.  Although I don't have to take the 'wall wart' to the kitchen sink, since the cord unplugs from the transformer, I still have to mess up the 'tuck and wrap job' to take the fountain away from it's spot.  And of course...my guys get very interested when watching me take this fountain away for cleaning.  As I found out, walking away with the cord dragging behind me, was an unconscious invitation for playtime.  And with water still in the bowl...do you get the picture?  So now, I have to make sure I get the cord wrapped in my hand before I walk away with it....still with water in the bowl.  I have tried to think of a way to hide the cord in some wall mount conduit or something.  But then I would still have to take that apart to get the whole fountain over to the sink.  Something should be done to be able to disconnect the cord at the fountain.  It would make things so much easier...at least in my situation.  It's a clumsy design.Then comes the pump disassembly for cleaning.  They recommend this to be done weekly...ugh.  The second thing I noticed about this fountain, is how you have to fish the cord through the hole to get the pump out for disassembly.  This requires a bit of patience with an empty bowl sitting on your counter.  It wants to slide all over the place and it just starts to get the aggravation juices flowing.  Then comes pump disassembly...having had aquarium pumps in the past, it was not to hard to figure out.  But still, there is a learning curve with this procedure, and if you get in a hurry, you could end up dropping tiny pump parts on to the floor.  It didn't happen to me...YET.  But the parts are small enough if you're fat fingered, and the prying apart that is necessary, could cause some or all of these parts to pop off...ending up on the floor, and taking that oh-so-familiar bounce under the stove or refrigerator.Next...and back to the cord.  You have to remember EXACTLY how you took the pump out, and fish the cord back through the plastic housing.  And if you don't have the cord lined up properly, the white pump housing will refuse to snap shut.  The quality of this 'clam shell' is lousy at best.  It barely wants to stay snapped shut with nothing inside of it.  In fact, I can just touch mine and it pops open.  So this whole cord thing is truly something that the designers need to take a look at IMHO.So once the filter/pump assembly is together...barely staying shut by itself...you have to get it lined up with the outlet of the pump to the lid of the fountain.  It would be nice if there was some sort of markings on the bottom of the bowl to do this.  It takes some guess work.  And if any of you have ever dealt with suction cups under water, they tend to want to stay attached when you want them unattached, and they tend to want to come unattached when you want them to stay attached.  So as you are sliding this clamshell around the bottom of the bowl to line up the hole with the outlet, lifting the lid and setting it down repeatedly, then the stupid clamshell falls apart.  I have been keeping the lower portion of the clamshell in it's place while cleaning.  But then I can't get the whole thing cleaned like I'd like to.I don't know....this is my first fountain.  I bought this based on the reviews and the apparent opinions on other fountains being inferior.  My cats are happier...but my patience runs thin with tedious cleaning procedures like this.  And then I have to get the fountain back in it's place and deal with that stupid cord again.  And I won't even mention the buzzing from the lid that tops off the entire procedure of cleaning.  Kind of like the thing is now laughing at you.  You got to go back and fiddle with the lid to get it to stop buzzing.There must be a better way.  My cats rate it 5...I rate it 2
3	1324512000	My cats love this running fountain and the cold water..they drink out of it constantly.  However, I am not a big fan.  Having two cats I find myself having to put more water in it daily.  I figured having one of these would allow me to not have to constantly refill their water supply.  Its a little noisy (vibrates)and gets even more noisy when it runs low.  Ive had it for 1 month and today I awoke to find the fountain stopped flowing.  Ill have to check the filter tonight and clean to see if this fixes the problem.  If not I may have to return.  I needed stainless steel due to my cats plastic allergy and this has helped.  I just wish this had a larger water supply and wasn't so high maintanence.  I have a feeling its getting clogged with hair and needs to be rinsed out about once a week (or more) which is a pain in the butt.
5	1324252800	GREAT product.  I have 2 fussy cats that insist on drinking water from a running faucet.  After reading the other reviews of this product on Amazon I took the plunge and bought one.  The minute I plugged it in and set it on the floor they started drinking from it.  I will need to buy a large rubber mat because they keep dipping their paws into the water but at least I know they are getting fresh water now that I don't need to be home for!  Thank you everyone for your reviews - it REALLY helped my decision making.
1	1324080000	Too noisy ...they hate it. Very disappointed. I even tried keeping it out without the pump on for a while but they remember the first day so i can't even use it asa regular bowl now. One star for the idea. that's it.
5	1323820800	I have had many pet fountains in the past, but this one is by far theeasiest to refill with water and especially clean.
5	1323734400	***UPDATE: I'm bumping this from 4 to 5 stars. The water pump has since gotten much quieter. I assume there must be some sort of break in period on it. It was about 2 to 3 weeks for me. I also noticed some of the noise was coming from the top piece (the part the water runs down). It was apparently rattling a little on the bottom piece as it just loosely sits on top. Adjusting around helped to reduce the noise as well. Everything else still works great so far.***Bought this water dish while it was on sale. Overall I am very pleased with it. It looks nice and has run well since I received it about two weeks ago. It looks nice setting on the floor and its easy to clean. The pump can be disassembled for cleaning as well which is a nice feature.My only complaints are:1. The pump is not the quietest pump in the world, but I wouldn't call it noisy either. You will notice it from across the room provided there is little to no ambient noise.2. Initially there is a bit of a plastic smell that comes from the water exiting the pump. I would recommend thoroughly washing it upon arrival and running plenty of water though it before allowing your pet(s) to use it.Otherwise my cat and small dog seem to enjoy it. I don't know if they have more of a preference for it over their old plastic bowl, but at least I know the water stays much more sanitary.
5	1323648000	Nice and quite, clean smooth look. The cats drank right away with this fountain. Nice and shinny goes great with a stainless steel bowl.
5	1323648000	I have 3 cats, one of which is very particular about his water.  They all like this fountain.  They do get upset when I'm bad and forget to fill it.  When the water is like 30% it stops flowing from the pump and just sits in the basin.  The pump proves to be very resiliant but does require cleaning once a month. (see video below).I'd also look into the ceramic one as well but this fountain has lasted the longest and is the easiest to clean and I've had a lot of pet fountains.Is it getting sluggish?  See this video:[...]
4	1323129600	It has only been a few days, so I am hoping my 13-year-old cat warms up to this soon. It LOOKS so much nicer than the plastic monstrosities, but my cat, who had been in the habit of demanding I turn on the bathroom faucet for her, has yet to give it more than an alarmed glance. The fountain part of it does not go very high, and the channel that the water flows down is rather narrow. That said, the construction and quality of the unit is very good. Time will tell if my cat will decide it is awesome or not, but that is not the fault of the fountain.
3	1322611200	They advertise this bowl as having a quiet motor and moving water which is appealing to your pet. Firstly, the motor is not very quiet. Even when the water level is full, I can hear it from anywhere in the downstairs of my house. It is louder than our refrigerator, kegerator, and I can even hear it when the TV is on. I am trying not to be too picky about this though since I have really good hearing, and it doesn't seem to bother anyone else in the house. Also, cats are supposed to be attracted to the moving water. We have had the bowl for a few weeks now and they still seem to be pretty wary about the moving water portion of it. They always drink from the still reservoir.All that being said however, it does do a great job filtering the water. It keeps the water much cleaner, and my cats are drinking more water now because of it. The bowl is easy to clean and I don't have to wash it out as often as their old bowl.
3	1322524800	LIKES: Stainless steel, easy to clean, fits together nicely, adjustable flow.DISLIKES: hums loudly even on lowest setting, my cat likes the vacuum better than he likes this fountain, no non-skid feet at the bottom, noticed a distinct "fishy" smell when cleaning filter after a couple of days (I can only imagine what the cat smells then).Both my cat and I disliked this product due primarily to the noise level. After he got used to the noise I noticed my cat tried to drink from the fountain part but clearly didn't like something about it. Maybe he's weird but he likes drinking out of his ceramic cereal bowl more.
5	1322265600	I purchased this bowl for my cat about a month ago. He was using a plastic fountain and he's a good water drinker, but the plastic fountain was a job itself to clean. This one can be cleaned easy and fast and the water flows smooth and quiet.
5	1321920000	I bought this fountain to replace a 5 year-old Petmate plastic model that was a pain to clean.  My family members have a plastic Drinkwell, which seems to have the same cleaning issue.  I'm recommending to all of them that they replace their fountains with this Pioneer.  Simply put, it is much, much easier to clean than the Petmate and, for whatever reason, does not seem to get as dirty.  My cats seem to like it better, perhaps because it stays cleaner.  It also looks significantly better in my home.If I were to nitpick one flaw, it would be that it's not quite as silent as the Petmate when the Petmate was running its quietest.  It is not loud by any means, you just have to make sure the top part of the fountain is seated well to avoid vibration noise from the pump.  If you even notice the extra noise, it will blend into the background very quickly.Pioneer made a better mousetrap, and if you're sick of cleaning your plastic pet fountain, this one will make your life easier.  Highly recommended.
5	1321488000	Well made, love the design, not too big or too small.  Perfect for my two dogs (34lbs. and 12lbs.) and my cat. My cat took a few days to get used to it, but once she did she loves it!  Easy to clean.  Water always looks fresh and clean.  Pump is pretty quiet.  I would recommend this to anyone.  You may need the bigger version if you have really big dogs.
5	1321488000	It was very easy to set up and clean.  Wastes less water than my prior pet fountain.  Keeps the water cleaner.  Have two small dogs and two large cats very happy that all adjusted.  I feel that it is designed very well. The Pioneer Pet Fountain is a great product for our needs.
1	1321228800	This fountain DID NOT WORK! Defective product!! Sent back for refund!! Very disappointed!! The piece that was supposed to cause the fountain to flow upwards did not operate, so the pets were only able to drink from the water sitting in the bowl. Not acceptable! I could put a large bowl out without the expense of this item!!
4	1320969600	I purchased this stainless steel raindrop design fountain as a gift for my loving cat so that she would have clean, filtered water available to her & alleviate the need to constantly replenish a stagnant water bowl. I did allot of research & read allot of reviews before settling on this product & I'm glad I did as I love it! The bowl is a little larger than I anticipated but the design is aesthetically pleasing & functionally adaptable with both the flowing fountain & the still water available, I purchase this item thinking I may have more than one cat someday. My only gripe about it is the annoying hum of the pump! I've had to move the fountain to a less occupied part of the house so I didn't hear it as much (it does help to keep the fountain topped up to-the-brim full to alleviate it a little) but still it is there like a buzz in the corner! It would also be helpful for the sones (sound) level of the pump to be displayed for this item. I recently bought a bathroom vent fan & it is 0.3 sones & I was stoked to not hear it! Why would that not be possible in such a small pump for this fountain? My cat is very sensitive to noise, she dislike wind for example & it took her a few months to get used to this shiny humming thing next to her food! She was abandoned when we found her & so still has a wild flight-or-fight streak in her but also has the softness of a nurtured loving cat! I rarely see her approach the fountain but I purposefully placed it right next to her food so she would get used to it & that seems to help. I'm pretty sure does drink out of the still water bowl but it's not going to be her hang out (like a human social water drinking corner!) due to her sensitivity to the hummmmmm...I'm sure there's something out there that would be quieter that could adapt to this small size (I'm sure James Bond has it, why can't we?)...it would be SO much more pet friendly with a quieter pump! I'd even willingly pay a little more for the silence...ahhhh!
5	1320364800	Well made, nice design, very pet friendly.  I would recommend this to anyone with a dog or cat. It sometimes looks so refreshing and enticing I want to drink from myself. (Of  course I don't however.)
5	1320278400	The water bowl is great for my pets. Easy to clean stainless steel. My two cats love to drink out of it.
2	1319932800	My cat was used to only drinking running water from the sink. This fountain worked great and he used up but a few months after having it, the motor gave out. I'm disappointed it didn't last longer. I'd replace the pump/motor if it were easy to find/purchase.
5	1319673600	Kitty wasn't drinking enough water. I tried other plastic fountains that were difficult to clean, this one is amazing! If your cats don't like it keep the pump on the second lowest setting... it could be too high.  I have not had a problem with splashing on the floor either. It's Purrrfect!!!
3	1319673600	This is a fantastic idea, and better for your pet, because stainless steel does not absorb odors or bacteria like some plastics do. However, I have to say that this stainless steel is pretty thin, so that the whole thing seems a little "tinny." I wish it was a little more substantial, and also wish sellers would publish the GAUGE of stainless so buyers would know in advance how thick, heavy and substantial the waterer is (or, in this case, is not).
5	1319587200	My kittens like it, I like it.  Not too noisy and the build quality seems good.  A lot of noise could be abated if there was a silicone gasket between the top part of the fountain and the bottom, as that is where the vibrations from the pump cause noise.  Perhaps that will be included in future revisions of the product.
3	1319587200	The cats love it. But. I have to constantly refill it and I have one that likes to "paw" at the water, and when he does he frequently knocks the top askew making the flow go all over the place, except for the bowl.  So the cats do enjoy it and do drink out of it alot.  But I do have to refill it alot, even if Mr. Pain-in-the-Neck doesn't spill it everywhere.  And when that top portion gets knocked out of place, you have a major spill going on.  Otherwise it's a nice unit if you have one nice, quiet non-pawing kitty.
2	1319414400	I tried this fountain after searching for one that was non-plastic. I am becoming increasingly concerned about the BPA in plastic and thought it might be best to get a non-plastic fountain for the cats. This fountain seemed hopeful, however, once it was assembled and running the noise and vibration it generated were just too much for my cats and myself. Since it is metal and the top piece rests on the main bowl directly there is a lot of area for vibration and noise without the benefit of plastic to dampen it, my cats were simply too scared of the sound and I was also not going to be able to tolerate it from the next room.If you are concerned about the noise a fountain could generated this is not the model for you. I also tried the original drinkwell and found that it had design flaws relating to noise as well. The petmate fountain is the quietest of the three I've tried and the one I am using now.
3	1319328000	I put everything together, started the pump and it just... hummed.I waited. The instructions say to wait 1-2 minutes for water to begin pumping. I waited some more. The pumping action never happened. First bowl gets 0 stars for the rating - It was defective upon arrival.I sent the defective bowl back and waited for a replacement. This was the best-rated non-plastic bowl I could find so I wanted to give it another try. The second pump started right up upon plug-in and now me and my pets are happy customers (so far - I only started it up yesterday). It does have a bit of a humm to it, but it's not horribly distracting as described in other reviews. I'm now averaging my review to three stars. I think I'll come back and bump it up another star if it lasts for awhile. Other reviews have said the pumps tend to go out after a couple of weeks, so I'm half-expecting a short life span (especially after my defective experience). We'll see!
5	1319328000	After owning this stainless steel pet fountain for almost one year, I have to write a review to express how awesome it is for my two cats. They absolutely love it. One drinks primarily from the pool of water on the right side; the other primarily from the fountain spout where the water come out. She is a maine coon, and they are known to love running water, so this fountain is especially great for her. In fact, I have seen her lie down next to the water fountain at times and watch the moving water contentedly. The fountain is a breeze to clean, just like the company says. I think it is important to try to clean the pump and parts once a week, because cat hair (especially from long haired cats) will clog the pump. I tend to refill the fountain daily with a glass of water to keep the water level up high enough for the pump to function. Excellent design, excellent idea -- your cats will thank you for it.
2	1319328000	The stainless steel bowl and design are wonderful. Great size, cats love it. The pump on the other hand is loud. And it broke after 4 months of normal use. I am currently waiting to hear if I will get a new pump sent to me, or if I am out of luck.
2	1319241600	I purchased this fountain to replace an older plastic Drinkwell fountain.  My cat had developed acne on his chin which I learned can be caused from bacteria growing on plastic bowls.  Since the problem did not develop for some years I believe the plastic developed fine scratches in the bowl which allowed the bacteria to grow.  The good news is the problem cleared up quickly with the new stainless steel fountain that I have now been using for several months.  My cat loves the bubbling aspect of the fountain and drinks plenty of water.My biggest issue is with an annoying noise caused by the metal lid vibrating on the lip of the bowl.  I finally fixed the problem by cutting three small strips of rubber (from a piece of insulation) and wedging them between the lid and the bowl.  It has fixed the problem nicely, but one should not have to resort to this type of arrangement to have a satisfactory product.I originally had some issues with cleaning it (which I do once a week) but since have learned a technique that I will pass along.  After taking the plastic pump housing apart and rinsing everything I fill the bowl with white vinegar and place the parts (including the motor) back in the bowl to soak.  I use a q-tip to clean the orifices including the pump orifice.  Hopefully the plastic pump housing and pump assembly will not become a bacteria breeding ground causing another acne problem.  I soak the filter in Hydrogen Peroxide and change it every third week.I would only recommend this product to someone who is willing to deal with a possible noise problem.  I do note that many reviewers did not seem to have this issue with their units.  I am still debating whether or not to just go back to using a simple ceramic or stainless steel water bowl which would be a lot simpler.
1	1319155200	Not mentioned in description is the plastic holder for the pump and filter. yuck. Cats get acne from plastic, and vet said to use ceramic, glass or stainless steel. Well this SS model still has plastic inside, AND spits on the floor as an added negative. And yes, I did adjust the flow to low, even though the directions inside said 2nd to low. Not a good product for my guys. We will stick with a big bowl of water without a fountain. The acne first came on from PLATINUM fountains which everyone seemed to like...except my cats got sick from them...I had 2 of those, not returnable since they were gotten too long ago. My new kittens seemed most susceptible to the acne, so although I've had plastic fountains for years, the problem just started with the Platinum model...interesting. But I'm not going to risk it again with ANY plastic. If anyone hears of a fountain made entirely of ceramic, and white or light in color, with a low-ish edge so my old girl can reach over too, AND safe with no lead etc. in the glaze, please let me know. This was returned.
4	1318982400	I just received this fountain today.I had a Petmate that worked fine for years except it was too hard to clean and my cat just started developing acne on his chin, I will assume from the plastic.He usually lays in front of the Petmate and rests his chin on the rim while drinking water.It is also entertaining for him just watching the moving water.I setup this new fountain and it was simple after reading other comments here.I like the stainless steel and the unit is definitely easier to clean.No nooks and cranniesHowever,it is noisy.The Petmate is ultra quiet.This one is NOT.I adjusted everything,took the motor apart to make sure all clean,lined everything up correctly,turned the water pressure down to lowest,filled water level to highest,but it continues to hummmm.The lid rattles from time to time but it's not the lid.It's the motor. It is on the kitchen floor and I even put a towel under it hoping it would absorb the noise,but it didn't help.That type of noise is very irritating.Plus neither of my cats like it,so far,due to the noise.I may learn to endure the noise,but if my cats don't,it is going back.So all in all it may be a fine water bowl,but they need to buy better motors.*********************Update 11/15/2012**********************I have been meaning to update this for quite a while.Originally my ONLY problem with this product was the noisy motor, so I replaced it with a another motor, from an Aquarium Supply store. The new motor was very inexpensive(under $10) so I gave it a try. It appears the motor that comes with thia Pet Fountain is designed to fit with the clam shell charcoal filter basket, so my new motor wouldn't work with that. I am pretty good at innovating, so I just took the clam shell case out and used the new motor without it. My new motor has a suction foot on the bottom so I could just stick it directly to the bottom of the bowl and it worked just fine. Also the output hole of my new filter didn't quite reach the output hole of the fountain lid so I just placed a small piece of aquarium grade pvc tubing to the motor and through the hole on the lid and voila I have a perfectly working QUIET pet water fountain. I know. I went the distance in innovating but it was worth it for me.The stainless steel bowl is excellent and for me does NOT get slimy unless I haven't changed the water in over 3 days(only happened 1x) and that is a very big no-no for health of your pets. I know I wouldn't drink water that old. So overall I have to change my rating to a 4 star for excellent quality of everything EXCEPT the original motor. And yes my cats love it, drink from it all the time and we are all living happily ever after.
5	1318896000	We were long-term (5+ years) users of the "original" Drinkwell type of cat fountain.  Last fall, I mistakenly left it running during vacation, and came home to a melted motor and stinking plastic.  We evaluated the alternative Drinkwell models at the time, but quickly decided to order an exact replacement.  The replacement came with its own set of problems, in the form of ill-fitting gaskets and such.  Big mess, which we at first blamed on one of the cats.  When we discovered the leak(s), we opted to research other fountains, and landed on this one.Now I wish that I had discovered this one long ago.  It is so much easier to clean and keep clean.  The ease starts at carrying it over to the kitchen sink, without worrying about spilling anything, and continues on through ease of disassembly (not nearly so many difficult-to-separate parts), even including number of "tools" that AREN'T required (no brushes, etc., as with the Drinkwell).A number of other reviewers have mentioned how easy it is for their cats to displace the cover, resulting in water everywhere.  I guess everyone's experience is going to be different in this regard.  I have one cat who likes to play in the water, but so far (1 month on) he has not upset anything.  In fact, I am beginning to remove some of the splash guards, pads, and other things I always kept around the fountain before.The fountain lacks the reservoir that the Drinkwell had.  That means that it needs refilling more frequently, but on the plus side, it can be refilled from a glass of water (rather than carrying the reservoir to the sink, unscrewing the cap, being careful when you tip it upside down putting it back, as with the Drinkwell).The filters for this are just a bit more expensive, but not significantly.  Overall, the convenience more than makes up for that.One more thing: I went with the stainless steel over the ceramic mostly because I think it's going to be nearly impossible to break accidentally (by dropping, or whatever).
4	1318809600	Overall, I think this fountain was a good buy. The design is sleek and it's not very noisy.I bought the pet fountain because my cats seem to only want to drink out of the faucets or the toilet. When it arrived, I found the instructions a bit confusing (there are pictures, not many words), considering this device involves water and electricity, I wasn't really eager to mess it up. Eventually, I figured it out.The initial reaction from my cats was pretty poor, to my dismay. I have three cats, one seemed completely disinterested in sampling the water (the biggest faucet-water fan, she actually sits in the tub and mrows until I run it for her), the other two seemed disturbed by it, one was actually frightened by the sound and very jumpy. I almost returned it but after about two weeks, leaving it unplugged some of the time, they have finally started drinking out of it. I'm not sure they like it any more than a regular bowl of water, but at least there is a filter in the device which maybe makes it worth it for this particular bunch.
5	1317254400	I never write reviews and the only time I ever think about writing one is when I am unhappy with a purchase.  This is not the case.  I love this drinking fountain.  Best one ever!  I had gotten my cat a Petmate one 2 1/2 years ago and I really thought I liked it a lot.  After about a year, the motor in the pump died so I bought her another Petmate fountain.  The second one just recently quit working so I did some research and bought this one.  My cat loves it more than the other ones.  She is constantly drinking out of it.  This one is so much easier to clean.  I never felt the Petmate fountain really got clean.  It was hard to get into the inner areas to clean it and it got a built up residue around the edges because it was plastic.  This one is stainless steal and comes apart very easily and you know its clean!  Tip *I add ice cubes after I fill it up to make it really cold.  I also drop a few in daily.  My "Sierra" likes her water super cold ;
5	1317168000	Easy to install first time. Easy to clean and encourages pets to drink water. Just the correct size for two or three pets. Need to add a little water from time to time.
2	1316390400	It works - and the cats like drinking from it (we have 3). I'm just not sure the whole thing and the filter work as advertised. In warm weather the sides of the bowl and parts exposed to the water become slimy in just a couple days, requiring disassembly and cleaning... and, of course installing a new (not cheap) filter. I'm not sure what the filter does exactly, but it doesn't stop bacteria from growing within a day or two (same as a regular water bowl), cat hair and small food pieces remain floating on the surface and are not removed or caught by the filter. So basically we use it as a regular water bowl with a fountain. It requires cleaning and replenishment just about as often as a regular water bowl. Not super impressed.
5	1316217600	This is a great little fountain. It's very quiet and my cats like it. I have the pump switch set to the lowest setting (far right). The other settings make it flow a little out of control.The pump quit working after a few months. While trying to find a replacement pump, I came across a video on youtube on how to clean the pump called "Pioneer Pet Raindrop Fountain Pump." Cleaning made my old pump work like new. (The Pioneer Pet rep in the video said these instructions are also available on page 9 of the owner's manual.)The only thing I would add to the video's instructions would be to say that the impeller on my pump was so clogged with mineral deposits that I had to use needle-nose pliers to pull it out. (I pulled on the round yellow part, not the fins, because I thought the fins might break.) I had to pull really hard.Also, I couldn't get the mineral deposits off of the impeller until I soaked it in apple cider vinegar, then they came right off. Inside the pump where the impeller goes was also gritty, so I used vinegar on cotton swabs and it came clean, too.Glad I didn't have to buy a replacement pump! I'm going to use bottled spring water in the fountain from now on. Our well water has too many minerals.
5	1316131200	I had a Drinkwell for years.  The plastic would get nasty and the filters gummed up quickly.This steel version is much more attractive, much quieter, and so much cleaner.Some reviewers complain that theirs is loud.  I've certainly not had this problem.  Other than a little water trickle it's whisper quiet.  I'd suggest making sure that the filter and the inner metal bowl are seated correctly, if you are having this problem.You should clean the bowl every week or so, and if you do, and if you use filtered water to begin with, then the filters should last much longer than the manufacturer states.Most importantly, of course, my cats love it.
4	1316131200	After reading about harmful chemicals leaching from plastic into the cats water, we replaced our plastic water fountain with this one and love it. It's so easy to clean and the cats like it just fine. My one tweak that resulted in a star deduction is that the metal top of the unit sometimes rattles and buzzes. My husband fixes it with what he calls "the Fonzie touch"--basically a light tap with his foot and that stops the rattling/buzzing sound for a while. It also helps to keep the fountain filled to the brim with water.
5	1316044800	After going through many different plastic fountains, I really prefer this over any of them. First of all, it is very quiet. I rarely hear it making any type of noise whatsoever. It's very pleasing to look at as well. I have one cat and she loves it. It takes five minutes or less to clean, which I do only once per week. I also now feel comfortable going on vacation for a few days to a week and leaving it knowing she will be able to have fresh clean water regardless of whether there is power in house. Other plastic fountains used to take up to thirty minutes to clean, and then it still wouldn't seem fresh. Not so with this product. It is still working very well even after a year of constant use, so so far so good! I really love this fountain!
5	1315353600	I had a fountain before this which I had to replace as it was leaking due to a hairline crack because it is ceramic.  I don't want my cat to be drinking from plastic so I thought that ceramic would be good but it wasn't.  This is why I purchased this stainless steel fountain.  I don't have to replace it as it really is a great fountain, and I will stick with it and so will my cat. Thank you for making life easier for me and my cat.Mary
5	1315267200	My Cats they love it. I have 3 cats and it is very good!I would recommended it especially if you have a problem with a cat that is not drinking water.
2	1314576000	I bought the drinking fountain because one of my cats loves drinking from the bathroom faucet and I'm constantly leaving the water running. I was excited to find one that was stainless steel, since the rest were are plastic and my cats don't eat or drink from plastic. Anyway, I set it up and find it to be very loud. I think my cats do too because they freaked out! There was sheer terror and they would go near it. If I tried to place them near it, they would get stiff and squirm away to avoid it. This was followed by circling and rapid paw slaps (which was highly entertaining at least). Now they are at least used to it (after a week), but they absolutely will not touch it. I'm sad, I think if it were quieter, they wouldn't have such a problem with it.as a follow up-the cats did get used to it, but will not drink out of the fountain part-they drink out of the bowl! Be careful not to put this too close to the food-it gets peices in and gets really gross, really fast.
5	1314489600	Purchased this water dish about 4 months ago. So far so good! Still runs great and is easy to clean. I add water to it everyday and clean it at least once a week. Usually soak the dish itself for a couple minutes and use a scrub brush to get rid of the build up. It does get a layer of scum in between washings but always cleans up nice. I use water from my reverse osmosis system so I dont have to replace the fliter very ofter, maybe once every couple months. If you use unfiltered water and clean it less often you will need to replace filter more frequently. It is fairly quiet if you keep the water level up and this will also help prolong pump life. Took the cats a week or so to get used to but now they love it! Hopefully it continues to work properly because it is a really great product!
2	1314144000	I bought this for my cats because they really dislike drinking out of a bowl. We'd been leaving the bathroom faucet dripping for them- until I looked at the latest water bill. Anyway, I've had this thing for a month now and they HATE it. I've seen one cat drinking from it once. They hate this faucet so much that they somehow taught themselves to turn on the tap in the shower. So now I'm out $45 and my water bill is still high.Details- it's larger than it looks- takes up about as much space as a football or a serving platter. It's flimsy- very thin steel. It's also noisy- louder than my fridge. It looks like a fountain, but the water runs down a slope. If I could do it over again, I'd buy the cheaper plastic version that actually has a waterfall.
4	1314057600	I can't explain why my cat will walk away from fresh water in a bowl and then hound me to turn on the sink in my bathroom so she can have a drink.  All I know is that since we purchased this product, she will drink from something other than the faucet I am trying to use.The product seems well-made.  The pump is not noisy.  I would probably rate it 5-stars, but how can you love a water dish that much?
5	1313971200	In simple terms, the Pioneer Pet Stainless Fountain guarantees fresh filtered water for your cat. We love it and our cat, Socks, feels pampered! Socks was cautious at first, wondering why his water dish was bubbling, but now he drinks more water than he ever did with a normal bowl. The device is attractive and easy to clean plus the filter is also easy to install. I recommend it highly to all cat owners,
5	1313712000	My cats love this, but for some reason - while we were on vacation and someone else was caring for the pets, argh - the pump stopped working. I tried the YouTube video on disassembling and cleaning the pump, but the impeller magnet was cracked. When I called Pioneer Pet to inquire about obtaining a new pump, they promptly put one in the mail - no questions asked!I'm guessing our *former* sitter let the pump run dry. Don't do this!The cats got so used to fresh water, while the pump was out of action, every morning, they'd sit next to the half-full water dishes that I'd just cleaned the night before, waiting for a dump-out and refill.
5	1313107200	Yes, $50+ for a glorified water bowl is shocking.  But in our case it was completely worth it.  Our extremely picky kitten had no interest in drinking from any non-running source of water.  We tried different bowls and cups in all sorts of places.  Even the toilet, which has seemed so enticing to so many cats I've known in the past, did not attract her.  She developed an UTI as a consequence.  I had messed about with cheaper, plastic fountains with previous pets and found them to be a giant, germy hassle.This is so much better.  Two stainless steel pieces, a two part plastic case for the electric fountain, a water filter, and the fountain itself.  Everything comes together and apart very easily.  She loves it.  The stainless steel makes bacteria much less of a worry.  And everything but the running motor is dishwasher safe.  I just pop everything apart every three or four days and run it with the rest of the dishes to keep it clean, fill it up, and then top it off with a splash from the Britta pitcher once a day.  She has tripled her drinking and watches it as entertainment.  She's happy, the vet's happy, we're all happy.For those who complain about cleaning it-- one should wash out a water bowl every day.  Washing this twice a week is great, IMHO.  It's not an enclosed pitcher kept in the fridge.  It's open to pet hair and particulates and it's going to need regular cleaning.  The filter can only do so much.  Speaking of which, it will probably need changing every 4-8 weeks.  For us, 8 weeks is definitely too long.  Five weeks is about right.To those who complain about leaks, I've had it leak twice.  Once was a consequence of overfilling.  The second was because I misaligned the "raindrop" lid, so that water splashed over the side as it ran down from the fountain.  So long as we keep the waterline from completely covering the shell of the motor, and put the lid on correctly, we have no leaks.As for the noise, it makes about as much noise as our fridge, so long as the water level is right.  If the water level is low, it makes an annoying grinding noise, which I find to be a helpful reminder to refill.
4	1313107200	I got rid of our old plastic cat fountain because my daughters insisted that wear and tear caused scrapes in the plastic, which encouraged bacteria that adversely effected our cats health.  While my cats were not sickly I gave in to the nagging and bought this cat fountain. It works well and the cats transitioned easily and quickly. While the exterior is stainless steel the pumping chamber, pump and filter is plastic. I don't know if this plastic will be a cause of concern for my daughters. Also the fountain is a bit more noisy than the previous Petmate.
5	1312243200	For several years we had a Petmate Fresh Flow Pet Fountain for our cat.  That was a good product, but it was quite high maintenance in terms of cleaning and the plastic warped when we put it in the dishwasher.  The Pioneer Pet Stainless Steel Fountain Raindrop Design is an OUTSTANDING product.  It does its job, it's easy to clean, and the carbon filter means that the buildup of dirt and mold on the Petmate simply doesn't happen.After about two months of use the pump started to act up, as other reviewers have mentioned.  Although it wasn't clogged in any way, it would only work if you jiggled it and then not always.  I e-mailed Pioneer Pets customer service directly ([...]) and within an hour of the open of business the next day I had an e-mail from Diane.  After a brief exchange she sent us a new pump, free of charge. We intend to buy a second fountain, this time for the dog!!  Great product, great company!!
5	1311724800	Very easy to clean, there are no crevices for buildup, and this can be placed in a dishwasher. The water pump is difficult to clean, but is still cleanable.
1	1311638400	Worked OK at first, but was always a bit noisy. Then, after 6 weeks, the motor stopped working. Too bad that didn't happen when I still had the chance to return it to Amazon. Not a quality product.
4	1311379200	I bought this for a couple of reasons.  The first thing right off the bat was that I liked the design and liked the fact it wasn't plastic.  Secondly, after deciding that I needed a water dish for downstairs, I wanted one that was easier to clean than the Petmate FreshFlow fountain.  That water bowl is a nightmare to clean with all of it's little nooks and crannies that if not properly cleaned will cause the water to become gunky too quickly.  This fountain is a breeze to clean compare to most others.  The only thing that takes a little more time to clean than I would like it to, is the water pump.  PEOPLE PLEASE DON'T COMPLAIN WHEN YOUR AUTOMATIC WATER FOUNTAINS STOP WORKING BECAUSE IT IS MORE THAN LIKELY YOUR FAULT FOR NOT TAKING THE MOTOR APART TO CLEAN OUT THE GUNK!  It really should be done at least once a month.  If you haven't taken your pump apart, take the time to do so and use q-tips to clean it out good.  This will prolong the life of your pump by many years.  I should know, the Petmate fountain pump has been running for more than 5 years..... yes 5 YEARS!!  Never had to replace it.  Anyway, like I said I bought this because of the looks, but my cats don't seem to like it too much.  I catch them once in a while drinking out of it, but the cat that I got it for would rather sit in the bath tub and meow louder and louder until somebody goes in there to turn the water on for her.  This is probably my fault, but at 15 years old, I think it's going to be difficult to change her ways.  The bowl is bit expensive, but it's stainless steel so the higher cost is somewhat justified for that.  The pump is not loud like other people complain about and it doesn't splash all over the place.  If it does for others then maybe they have the flow on the pump adjusted too high or maybe their floor is slanted....LOL.
4	1311379200	I love this water fountain, but it's taking Cleo a while to get used to it.  The one I had before was a free falling water fall, like a water faucet.  She's slowly using it more and more and it's so much easier to keep clean and the water stays fresher.
4	1311292800	I got this for my cats when we got a new place, I've had it for about a month and a half now.  It is quiet, but if you have it in a room without audio video equipment, or another device that produces a low hum, you will hear it (as I did for the week before my TV was hooked up).It is expensive, but with most nicely designed products you end up paying for it.  Not all companies have the inclination to make their products look good, or hire some to do it.  As a designer myself, the cheaper plastic ones were not an option.  I was reluctant to get the stainless steel version because I thought ceramic would look better, and, honestly, the idea of my loved ones constantly drinking out of a metal vessel skeeved me out a bit.  But after considering the utensils I use every day and reading a review complaining about the heavy weight of the ceramic one I decided to go with this one.  It turns out, it is relatively light and manageable when full of water.  Although using a plastic plant watering can for the bi-daily (for two kitties) fill-up makes things much easier. You cannot forget about filling it, or when the water gets low the pump will make a hideously loud screeching noise.  But when you fill it up again, and unplug it and plug it back in to start it up again, it'll be back to normal.  When this happened to me the pump did not burn out, but I imagine if you are not in the house when this happens, it will.  And I noticed the company doesn't sell just the pump.It does get gunky, and needs to be cleaned at least once every month or so.  It's pretty easy most parts just need to be wiped under the faucet.  You'll need the brushes (check related items) because the smaller brush is the perfect diameter for the white tube of the pump casing, which gets quite nasty and can't be cleaned with just a rinse.  I suppose you could use your pinky, but yuck.My younger cat is a shorthair and Siamese mix and has a tendency to stick his paw in a water bowl and pull it forward, spilling water (I guess some primal instinct).  So I was concerned when the other reviewers said the lid did not stay on and water went everywhere.  But since he drinks out of the spout of water, and the side of the bowl is a bit high (compared to feeding bowls) that instinct to dig is discouraged.  He doesn't stick his paw in it or mess with the lid, but I think if he did, the lid is so snug it would be ok.My older cat is a fifteen y.o. chocolate point Himalayan.  She's pretty spry (and took to the new spiral stairs quicker than I imagined), but when I decided to keep the old bowl full of water upstairs for her (so she wouldn't have to go downstairs at night), I didn't realize she stopped drinking from the Fountain.  She gets UTIs and it just occurred to me this morning that I hadn't noticed the normal amount of pee in the boxes. So I checked her hydration level by pinching the scruff of her neck.  If they are dehydrated, the skin will not bounce back as normal. Sure enough, I had forgotten to fill up the old bowl and she had stopped drinking for a few days.  I know she did drink a bit from the fountain, but when I filled up the old ceramic bowl she was grateful and drank for a long time.  So I think the claim that the sound, etc. encourages drinking from the Fountain may work with younger cats, but in my experience, given the option, my old cat won't be taught new tricks.So, as with ALL cat related products, it really depends on how your opinionated kitty will take to it.  If it doesn't work out and you are too late or too lazy to return it (as I always am) you could always give it to a friend's cat or donate it to a shelter.I'm quite happy with mine.Hope this helps.  Please help the rest of us spend our money wisely, and be a conscientious consumer, by writing at least one unbiased review for a product or service per month.
2	1310515200	The style is the best out there on the market for a pet water fountain.  I know the Drinkwell brand is popular, but it's so bulky & ugly looking.  The stainless steel makes it more sanitary.  The product design is easy to clean, but I have to clean it way more often than expected.  I was expecting the filter to work a bit better.  Sometimes cat hairs and/or dust will float in the water.  I would expect the filter to pick-up these things.  Instead, I have to end up changing out the water every 2 days to prevent it from getting cloudy.  I'm just going to stick to regular stainless steel bowl of water and change the water everyday.  It actually ends up saving me more time then disassembling the unit every 2 days.
5	1310169600	My dog has always loved to drink from the water hose, so I thought the fountain might be a good inside choice. I am amazed at how much more water the dog now drinks. He loves the fountain. It is quiet. Occasionally we do get a little water around it, but not enough for it to be a problem.
2	1310083200	I have two cats who will only drink from fountains with running water and I needed to replace my Drinkwel 10 year old fountain.  I wanted to try the stainless steel because of hard water deposits that formed on the plastic and I wanted a fountain that is easy to keep clean.  My cats loved this fountain until it just stopped.  It stopped after just 3 weeks useage!  I returned the machine.
4	1310083200	I bought this fountain to encourage my cats to drink more water.  Upon unwrapping all of the components, I found it very easy to assemble and set up.  The electrical cord was long enough to find a place to put it without being right next to the outlet.  Once it was filled and turned on, the cats were curious (of course) of the new 'contraption.'  Throughout the 3 1/2 weeks that I had it, they smelled the water and dropped toys in it, watched them go down the slide, and fish them out.  Never once did any of them drink from it!  I cannot fault the fountain for that.  It was very easy to clean and change the water.  It is a bit large, as stated by the dimensions, so be sure you have a place that will fit it.  If the cats actually used it, it would still be in our house!
5	1310083200	I purchased this fountain over a month ago and it still works flawlessly. Some of the other reviews complain of noise, but I would say it sounds like a fish tank, pretty soothing really. The key is to clean the fountain weekly, and always ensure you keep water to the full mark to prevent the motor from burning out. Stainless steel is a great option because it cleans easily, and is dishwasher safe. My two kittens, 9 months and 4 months love the fountain and hydrate themselves frequently from it. It took a day for the older kitten to warm up to the fountain but she loves it now. Overall I am happy with my purchase and I would recommend to a friend.
5	1309651200	The bowl is big enough to hold enough water for all 3 of my cats without me refilling multiple times a day.  It is much easier to clean than the plastic one I had been using.  And, it is really quiet.  I love it.
5	1309219200	I have used the Pioneer predecessor, a larger ceramic fountain with the same type of filter, for a couple of years now and all of my kitties LOVE IT! I bought the model shown here in ceramic roughly a year ago to provide filtered fresh water for the boys when they are segregated overnight. I was so happy to find that it is now available in UNBREAKABLE stainless steel! I was THRILLED that it is cheaper on Amazon than in the big box stores! by $20+ cheaper at $48+! YAY!I have a tiny floating yellow duck and a little pingpong sized floating ball that I sometimes place in the fountain because one of my Siberian boys likes to play in the water. (There is an aluminum tray AND a puppy pad UNDER the fountain)The fountain will also accomodate kitty greens, which my boys love. BONUS, the Pioneer Pet people are extremely supportive should you encounter any problems.Details: The fountain holds about 1 qt of fresh water and the main components are entirely dishwasher safe. Of course, you must handle the ceramic fountain parts with care, but the stainless model will be a real trooper! The pump and filter housing is plastic and it will melt in high temp cycles of your dishwasher.I wash the large fountain weekly in the dishwasher. The smaller fountain, shown here, can go about 2 weeks between washes because it is deeper.I put the plastic pump & filter housing on the TOP SHELF ONLY and run a normal cycle. I delouse the fountain parts with antibiotic dish detergent & a paper towel prior to loading. You will see some scum & fur appear along the walls of the fountain. This is normal, but shouldn't be allowed to build up for longer periods of time. The running water in the fountain is still pretty clear.I put the actual filter in the rack for flatware during the normal cycle. The other, larger components are safe on the bottom rack. Everything comes out sparkling clean and ready to reuse.THE PUMP cannot be cleaned in the dishwasher. I put it in a small jar with hot water & antibiotic dish detergent and run it while the dishwasher runs. Then I empty the soapy water and rinse, refill with warm water, add the actual filter and run it again, adding a few drops of Uncle Harry's Breathing Mix (available on Amazon, etc) with eucalyptus, pine, thyme, clove, etc. Aromatherapy for me, naturalizes & lubricates the filter & pump surfaces.Reassemble, refill and plug it in. My kitty congregation all crowd around, vying for the first drink (AS IF).
2	1309219200	I had high hopes for this fountain because it is attractive and easy to clean. However, it was far too noisy. I traced the noise to vibration of the stainless steel lid when the pump is running. Even after taking it apart and making sure the suction cups were all securely seated, it was still so loud I could hear it from another room. This seems like a design flaw to me. The stainless is very thin and light, so it doesn't surprise me that the base and lid rattle against one another. This fountain was meant to replace an older Petmate fountain that is difficult to keep clean. But the Petmate is much quieter, so I'm sending the Pioneer back.
5	1309132800	I needed a fountain to encourage my cats to drink more water - I am a registered veterinary technician and one of my adorable resuce cats has FLUTD (struvite crystals).Anyhow, at work we have the Drinkwell fountain. It has so many parts! It has all these little nooks and crannies and is really hard to clean. We have to bleach it weekly at work for our clinic cats.This fountain is so easy to clean, quiet, and my cats love it. It come apart easily into 4 parts. There is the silver top, the silver bowl, and a case for the pump which looks like an oyster. The pump case is really easy to open. I wash it out once a week with soap and water and it take about 5 minutes. It's much better than the 7 or 8 different parts of the Drinkwell.I have 3 cats and refill it once during the week to keep it full. If my puppy drinks out of it, I have to refill it more often (he has a separate water bowl).I highly reccomend this fountain!
1	1308873600	I was back and forth on deciding to purchase this item as it looks like it caters to cats more than dogs. My dog keeps getting UTI as she doesn't drink enough water. I asked the vendor that sold this, they're great by the way and so helpful, if it's used for dogs and they did say yes so finally I bought it. Unfortunately it's now a feng shui item and not a drinking fountain. It's been a month and my dog still wouldn't drink from it. I still keep cleaning it once a week, housing and motor. It's my first drinking fountain so I can't compare it to other fountains but it is easy to clean. I do notice I might have to clean twice a week as I notice the water gets icky and the base slippery all over. It's very quiet. All in all seemed like a sturdy item but am not sure if my dog will ever drink from it.Update: After 2 more months my dog still doesn't drink from it and I'm still cleaning it AT LEAST twice a week as I'm noticing a lot of build up around the walls. I haven't given up on it as I'm hoping she will finally drink from it. I must be doing something wrong. Hence one less star :(
5	1308614400	It didn't take long for my 13 year old cat to really start enjoy drinking out of this.  I had a Petmate fountain prior to this that she also loved.  The design of this one looks great anywhere and it's very easy to clean.  I usually clean this once a week.  I use filtered water from the refrigerator to fill it but the water is so hard here that it will still leave water marks.  I would highly recommend this product.
5	1308528000	I previously had a Petmate Freshflow Medium fountain, which started leaking after about 2 years of use.  It was hard to clean and I began to worry about bacterial buildup with my aging rabbit.  This fountain works great!  It is a bit noisy, but is incredibly simple and highly unlikely that it will leak- it might splash if you turn the flow up too high, but it is a solid bowl on the bottom.  I also like that all of the water is being circulated unlike the Petmate, which had a reservoir which did not always function properly.Overall a great product, however you might want to have it in an out of the way place if you don't like the motor noise.
5	1308528000	I have had this for a year now and it still works great. My dog and both cats drink more water then ever before. Through this year I have learned several things that help keep my fountain running smoothly.*Keep it full of water. It has ran dry before and I just unplug it for a few hours, refill it and walla it's running again. *If it is running sluggishly, check the motor (the black thing in the white casing)and remove any matter/hair that has accumulated there. *The sliding tab on the motor will increase/decrease the amount of fountain pressure. *And lastly, when I was going to throw it out because I couldn't get the motor to run, I googled and found  youtube.com/watch?v=TYyTFv_u3Sw  a video showing me how to take the motor apart (seperate casing and pull out magnet-easy) and clean it-then it was running like new again.No question, I would buy this again (and I agree with others, it did take a few days before the pets starting using it).
3	1308441600	Bought this in early January 2011. Was fine and the cat seemed to like the bubbling action and not mind the noise. He used this as his primary drinking source. I cleaned it every couple of weeks unless it needed it more often (metal did tend to get slimy) and usually had to add water every other day. Not really a big deal. However, it stopped working last week so it lasted less than six months. The motor works, but not strong enough to make water bubble.  I like the electric fountain idea, but not crazy about spending $50 every six months for a new one hence the three stars.
3	1308182400	My cat did not like the fountain, i think because the water does not flow at the base, only on the side. the water at the bottom of the bowl looks stagnat so she preferred to stick with her glass water bowls.  the fountain is well designed, quiet, sturdy, and looks exactly like the picture, it functions properly but needs stronger flow at the bottom.  i'll have to return it.
5	1307664000	I love this pet fountain! It's quiet and looks amazing in stainless and matches the rest of my appliances. The best part is that my 2 cats seem to be drinking more water since I got it! Would definitely recommend!
5	1307577600	I had an old Petmate Fresh Flow fountain for many, many years and the pump finally died.  My cat loved the old fountain, but it was very hard to clean for me.  There were all kinds of hard to reach places that gunk could build up in. I had to get a replacement fountain because my cat was stalking my drinks after the old fountain broke!The reason I decided to purchase the Pioneer Pet Fountain was because of the reviews that said it was easy to clean.  There are not any hard to reach places inside.  Also, you can take apart one side of the pump so you can clean it.  This is a huge plus and should help make the pump last longer.  The base of the fountain is stainless steel and it holds a good amount of water for a small pet.  The top of the fountain is also stainless steel.  The pump and filter housing area is plastic, so I feel like I need to be gentle with that part of the fountain.My cat was unsure about the fountain at first because the water came out differently than the old Petmate.  She has gotten used to that now, but she still won't drink out of the top of the fountain like I've heard some animals do.  I placed the fountain the kitchen at first and she didn't want to drink. I think the unfamiliar noise was freaking her out.  Once I moved it to the living room where there is carpet, she drinks out of it all the time since it makes a lot less noise on carpet.  She drinks even more water now than she used to.Overall, this was a great purchase for both me and my cat.----UPDATE----Don't forget to clean the pump!  See pages 9 and 10 of the manual and there is also a very helpful video on youtube if you search for Pioneer Pet Raindrop Fountain.After almost 4 months of use, my fountain's pump stopped working.  After searching around online, I found the video on how to clean the pump.  I followed the instructions and the pump began working immediately after cleaning.  I had cleaned parts of the pump before, but did not realize that the propeller would also pull out for cleaning.
1	1306800000	I had this on my wish list, dont know how to send back because dont have the confirmation or anything and hate to tell the person that bought this for me that it stopped working after 2 weeks.  I have no idea what to do.  wish list is great concept but should provide information to the person that recives gifts in case there is problems.
3	1306540800	My cats enjoy drinking out of this fountain, and I like the fact that water is available in the bowl portion of the fountain when I have the fountain turned off.There are some negatives.  The instructions for putting it together are not very helpful.  Also, it is noisy, even it is full with water.  I have had experience with other water pump items, and the key to keeping the noise down is to make sure these items are filled with water - that does not help with this product.I would recommend you find another product.
5	1306281600	Never had a fountain for my picky cats, but this one seems to do the trick.  It's quiet, easy to clean and looks stylish in my SS kitchen.  You do have to be careful to add water every day as it puts strain on the motor when the water level gets just a little below the maximum level.  Otherwise, love it!
5	1306108800	[[[Update: I purchased this fountain in 2011 and wrote my original review in May of that year.  It is now August 7, 2013 and I wanted to write an update that the fountain still works great.  The motor has gotten a tad louder over the years (though it is still pretty quiet), but it still functions as well as it did when we first got it.  I don't have a single complaint about this fountain.  I am impressed that it still works so well, and has not given me any problems.  Definitely a "winner"!]]]---Original Review---One of my cats went through a bit of a health scare a while ago - the vet thought it was kidney problems.  Luckily, he is fine, but my husband and I wanted to encourage more drinking in both of our cats.After reading lots of reviews, we first bought the Drinkwell 360 Pet Fountain.  It was great - my cats drank noticeably more water from it (after having to take a few days to get used to it).  The water seemed to stay clean and it was cold (which my cats seem to love).  After about a week, though, we decided to return it and get another fountain.  The reason for this is that my cats didn't like the water falling from the top spouts.  Plus, the  fountain was huge and we didn't like that it was plastic.So, back to the drawing board - after researching other fountains, we decided on this one.  In addition to the good reviews, the reason we chose the Pioneer Stainless Steel Raindrop Fountain (and love it now) was (is) because:1. It is stainless steel!  Love this because it is more sanitary, and looks better.  Th filter and case for the filter are still plastic, which sucks.  But, I can't find any fountain without at least some plastic in it.2. The water flows into a larger bowl.  My cats weren't crazy about the waterfall effect of the Drinkwell.  So, the Pioneer is great for them.  They are able to get water that circulates, but stays relatively still in the bowl.3. It is smaller:a)  Perfect for 2 cats.  The Drinkwell was overkill.  The Pioneer, on the other hand, is a reasonable size.b)  It is MUCH EASIER to clean.  Both the Drinkwell and Pioneer are dishwasher safe, but the Drinkwell was solarge that it didn't fit in our dishwasher.  Plus, because it was plastic, we didn't feel safe exposing itto such high heat.  The Pioneer is great though - all the pieces fit on the top rack.  And, because it isstainless steel, we don't mind the high heat of the dishwasher.  It is also SUPER EASY to wash by hand too!4. It is very quiet!  As long as you keep the water at a good level, all you hear is the water circulating.  We hardly ever hear the motor.  The Drinkwell was much more noisy - probably because it was so large.5. No splashing!  Because there is just a small stream, you don't have splashing with this.  We still keep it on a mat to keep if off of our floors because water does spill out occasionally (usually because we fill it too much). But, it isn't too bad.  The Drinwell was ridiculous with splashing - it makes sense given that there was water dripping from so high up.Overall, we prefer this fountain over the Drinkwell!  We have had this for 6 months now - it works well and our cats love it.
5	1305331200	I have owned the raindrop fountain for a little over a year now.  I purchased it when I adopted my first kitten at Petco.  I chose it just because it looked clean compared to the plastic models.  I must admit, I cheat.  I wash the entire fountain in my dishwasher (my least favorite chore - washing dishes).  I wash everything in there each week except the pump, which I haven't had any problems with aside from my second kitten chewing the cord up (spliced it back together - works fine).  The kittens and my miniature pinscher love it.  I catch them sitting and watching it, just watching it.  One of them likes to play in it sometimes, but they drink up to about two cups a day which I just pour into the bowl to refill.  I don't particularly like having to pay for filters, but I just bought some polyester fiberfill and charcoal and plan on reusing the old filters by opening them up and replacing the contents.  Works for me!
5	1304726400	I'd tried several different water systems for my two cats and this one is by far the best. The Steel makes clean up much easier and something I don't need to be constantly doing. Also, it holds a huge amount of water, making constant refills a thing of the past. Cleaning is also very easy. Breaks down into three parts, all of which are really easy to clean, unlike the Drinkwells. I can't recommend it enough, it's fantastic.
5	1304553600	This is a nice item and performed very well.  Regrettably, Her Highness is much too fraidy dog to try something that actually has movement.  I am donating it to our local no-kill animal shelter.  You would not be disappointed if you purchased it.
1	1304121600	Great concept and design but it stopped working after only 5 hours!!!!  Cheap plastic pump.  Will be returning it ASAP.
5	1303689600	Having 2 cats with piddling problems I had to have more fresh water available to them. What I like about this water bowl, is it is easy to break down to clean, and it's not made out of plastic so no bacterial problems.
5	1303603200	I love this water fountain! It is very attractive to the people in our house and the cats love to play in it! The stainless steel is also great for my kitty with acne.
2	1303516800	I was very much hoping that this product would be a win for my cats.  I previously had the Drinkwell Pet Fountain, but that one was impossible to clean.  I was looking for a design that was easier to clean and made of stainless steel, and this one seem to fit.It ran reliably for about 10-12months, after which, when I cleaned the motor would stop working.  First, I would fiddle with it, and sometimes it would work again.  Now, however, the motor is completely dead.Originally I thought that I could replace the motor, but I realized that my cats never liked this fountain like they liked the Drinkwell.  They will only drink out of it as a bowl (the drinkwell had a true fountain and the liked to drink the running water portion).  In fact, they are more likely to drink out of their other waterbowl, which is just a bowl.  I think I will go back to Drinkwell products now for my cats.
4	1303257600	My daughter bought this for my three cats. It is excellent in many ways, especially its quiet operation and ease of cleaning thoroughly.Advice: If the water is splashing out, turn down the water flow rate with the tiny switch on the black pump. It still flows nicely on the lower speed, but does not splash out.Note: I thought it didn't work the first time I put it together, because I didn't have the pump turned on. The directions really could be better.Advice: If the unit is noisy, readjust the pump and filter housing AND the cover. As other reviewers noted, it does have a "sweet spot" and cats can shift it.Advice: Yes, you do have to add water regularly. After all, they drink it, right?I suspect this is one of the best fountains on the market, particularly for cats who have plastic sensitivity, which I understand can cause acne on the chin.I agree that the plastic filter and motor housing would be better if it were also stainless steel, and that the cord is awkward to remove for cleaning. This is why it gets four stars.That said, I definitely recommend this fountain.It's sturdy, quiet, and clean.
5	1303084800	I have two cats and one recently had a urinary blockage.  The vet recommended we get a self- filtering water bowl for it.  One consideration was our other cat's acne.  For these reasons we settled on the stainless bowl and self watering system.  The stainless bowl helps with the acne since it carries less bacteria and the self filtering bowl works well for our other cat.  A perfect compromise.They both love the bowl now and it works well.  The one cat was incredibly afraid of it at first, hissed at it and thought it was alive, so we had to slowly get him comfortable with it and keep the old bowl around for a few weeks.  I would definitely recommend this product.See above review:  yes it was great.  It is a pain to clean and we had to scrub it weekly so that the mold/ mildew that constantly formed wouldn't harm our cats.  It was the grossest and messiest thing to clean.  And I guess it has been 4 months and the motor has died all together.  I would no longer recommend this product because it was expensive, hard to clean and broke after only 4 months.
5	1302825600	This is our third water bowel for our cats and this is by far the best for quantity of water, ease of use, and especially cleanliness!
5	1302739200	There are NO complaints about this product.  I had previously purchased another fountain, a Drinkwell, which both of my cats rejected, even after leaving it available to them for weeks.  On the other hand, both cats immediately took to the Raindrop.  It has everything and it's so pretty, I have it in my livingroom, where my cats and I hang out.  You won't go wrong with the Raindrop.  Highly recommended.
4	1302480000	This unit has been great so far.  Cat had no problem taking to it as we had one of the plastic varieties previously.  As noted by others, there is a narrow window between under and overfill that creates a "sweet spot" for noise free operation.  I just have gotten used to dumping a glass of water in it every morning to keep the unit noise free.
1	1301875200	Our cat keeps turning it over.  We finally stopped using it.  This unit is much to light and is very easily tipped.  We are unable to return it because we didn't keep the box.  We bought extra filters and now we have to pay to return them or just take the loss.
4	1301702400	I purchased this for my cat and the new additional kitty in the house. I'd been using stainless steel bowls, but between the two of them, they drink water faster than I can fill it up in a day.That said, this fountain works wonderfully. At first, it didn't make any noise, but it's a little louder now...just not to the point that it's bothersome. My worst critique, however, is the shape. I have a kitchen smaller than crawl-away storage under the stairs. I only have limited "tuck away" space to put this, and I have to plug it in in the other room. In other words, it doesn't fit the angular dimensions of my kitchen, so unless you have space enough to keep this away from low cupboards, I don't recommend it because I always have to kick it around to get into cabinets.HOWEVER, the cats love it, and I wouldn't dream of returning it.
2	1301616000	My cat loved this, but we stopped using it for about 6 weeks and when we plugged it back in, the pump didn't work.  Can't return it -- there is only a 30 day warranty from the manufacturer, so it's $50+ that was wasted on a faulty product.
5	1301529600	This is our 3rd different pet fountain and by far the best. Easy to clean and easy to fill.It requires additional water at least every other day and I just put a few ice cubes in it to melt.  All that is necessary to keep it from splashing out is to set the pump on it's lowest setting. Our cat took to it right away.
5	1301443200	This is a very good filter.  It is easy to clean.  The only issue I have with it is I wish it were slightly larger.  With several dogs and cats, I fill it twice a day.
5	1300665600	This is a great product, we've been using this with 2 cats for about 3 months. I like it because we don't have to change the water so often with the filter and large reservoir. I just throw the pieces in the dishwasher ever couple weeks and change the filter about once a month. The cats love it, one of our cats will sit in front of the fountain and fall asleep, which looks strange because it's in a corner. Sounds strange, but it's true.
4	1300406400	All 3 of my cats drink more water as a result of this fountain.The only problem is in putting it back together in correct alignment.
4	1300320000	Our cat just loves her new fountain.At first we were attracted to the ceramic version of this fountain. We ordered it from Amazon, but it arrived broken- it was not packed in a big enough box with appropriate packing material.So, we ordered this stainless one. I wish the material was a higher gauge- it seems light weight. I was afraid our cat would knock it over, but that is not the case. A larger cat or dog might.It is very easy to set up & to clean. I am thrilled that we know longer have to worry about the bacteria that was developing on the Drinkwell fountain's plastic bowl that we have been using. We also were replacing the fountains every year. This new one looks like it will last allot longer. I also like that the filters are in a casing.
1	1300147200	I had this in my cart and was going to buy this,it went up 25.00 overnight,that's 75% markup.I don't think so Petco.I will never buy anything from them again........
4	1300060800	So far, so good! The Pioneer Pet fountain has been just as advertised. It is very quiet and easy to assemble; I barely had to look at the instructions! My two cats took to it right away, and they are definitely drinking more water than before. I like the small number of parts as this makes things easy to clean. I find the flow works well at the lowest setting. The only concern I have is the way the power cord is routed through the case. There is no grommet or other protection or strain relief, and the cord runs under water. Once the warranty expires, I will install a grommet, and may figure a way to route the cord above water. Also, although the bottom pan and upper cover are stainless steel, the pump and pump/filter housing are plastic. Water constantly contacts this plastic, so the claims of the water staying cleaner is true, but exagerated. It would be nice if the pump housing was also stainless steel. Overall, I have been impressed with the quality and especially the quietness! I have a competing plastic fountain that hums and is starting to get mineral build-up. Not so with the Pioneer Pet fountain! (I still use both of them.) Also, a low-water auto shutoff would be nice, but I've yet to find a fountain that has one.
1	1299974400	I bought this fountain because my cat refuses to drink out of regular bowls, and I figured this would be better than leaving the tap running. It is quite small compared to other fountains, but this was a plus because I would be using it for only one, very small, cat.Aesthetically, it resembles a bedpan. Whether this is pleasing or "elegant" I will leave for others to decide.The deal breaker was the pump. It was so noisy, it was like having a moped in my kitchen. Changing the water level or motor speed made no difference. It was either defective, or other reviewers here suffer from hearing loss. Either way, I couldn't have it in my house.I returned it for a refund the same day. I'd like to get another fountain for my cat, but I'm wary of the noise now. Ah well.
5	1299974400	I have previously owned 2 other drinking fountains both the drinkwell and drinkwell platinum for my 2 cats. What I disliked was the plastic would become hard to clean over time and pitted. It also started making a lot of noise which was annoying after a year of use. So I decided to look for stainless steel. I wasn't sure if this would be sufficient for 2 cats since it only holds 60oz vs the drink well platinum which held over 2 x more. After reading many reviews it seemed it was sufficient and quiet. Well it is! 2 cats and I don't have to fill it for 3-4 days..just top it off. It is very quiet and the cats took to eat easily though mine are not finicky. Easy to assemble, easy to clean and good size. If you're worried about the size go to the Max version which holds twice as much and made for larger dogs.
5	1299888000	I purchased this pet fountain to replace an old Drinkwell pet fountain I had and so far I, and my cat, like it so much better. My cat used to beg me to drink out of the faucet and now she doesn't even follow me into the bathroom. I mean, she would sprint to the bathroom behind me so she could get me to open up the faucet for her and she hasn't done that since I bought this fountain. So I believe the Drinkwell water was simply not clean enough for her and she was doing it so she could have good water. I must admit I probably didn't keep it clean enough because it was impossible to reach every nook and cranny that it had but with this simple design it's so easy to clean. This fountain has three parts: The lid, the motor and the basin, that's it, and they don't even latch onto each other, they sit perfectly on top of one another. The plastic material for the Drinkwell fountain allowed for hard "dirt" to get stuck on it (I could never remove it), but the stainless steel will probably repel any of this stuff. So if you are a fan of the Drinkwell fountain I believe they have a stainless steel model now, I'd still choose this one over it because of the design without hard to reach areas, and with the easy dis-assembly I can put it in the dishwasher once a week. It is also by far quieter than Drinkwell, I can barely hear the motor's hum. I think a reviewer mentioned that it goes below the water line quickly and then the water doesn't flow out the top anymore, this is true, however, for me it serves as an indication that I should change the water and put fresh water in for my kitty, so I prefer it this way.
5	1299542400	I've used this for about a month now. Before, I had the plastic Drinkwell which was really hard to keep clean. The Pioneer is very simple and easy to keep clean. I wedge two small pieces of styrofoam from a disposable plate, between the cover and the bowl to keep the cover from vibrating. The submersible pump and the sealed filter work well. Every few days I change the water and wipe the bowl with a paper towel.My only complaint is that some edges felt a little sharp and I had to sand them down with emery cloth. Also it took a few days before my cats were comfortable with it.
5	1299196800	After reading the negative reviews I did not want to buy this fountain. I decided to just use a water bowl and do away with the Drinkwell fountain I did have, my two cats were developing acne from the plastic fountain. I cleaned that fountain twice a week, despite my effort they still had acne under their chin. I discovered my one cat would not drink from the plain bowl of water so I ordered this stainless raindrop fountain.I love it, it washes up so easy like a mixing bowl not like the Drinkwell with all it's nooks and crannies, it's quality is very good not flimsy like I have read, it's quiet and I like the design, my two cats looked at it suspicious like cats do but I'm sure they will adapt to the new fountain. Buy this fountain you will not be sorry do not let the negative reviews sway you into thinking it is not good.ETA 10/31/11 Pump stopped working called Pioneer Pet 262-376-0768, they were VERY helpful, answered right away. Pump needed cleaning, took it apart, was clogged with hair. Did the trick and is working like a charm.Still love this fountain!!!
5	1298678400	Our cat started a nasty habit of drinking out of the toilet.  She was throwing up a lot, which I attributed to the bacteria in the toilet.  She stopped drinking out of her ceramic water dish altogether, and I figured she must like the cool, fresh (fresh according to a cat!) toilet water.  I considered purchasing one of the cheaper fountains, but 1) I didn't want plastic as that can harbor bacteria and she's already had a problem with chin acne and 2) I didn't want to risk getting one that was loud.  The design of this fountain was appealing to me because it holds a lot of water, almost looks like a toilet bowl (to a cat at least!) and was stainless steel so it wouldn't harbor bacteria AND would keep the water cool how kitty likes it.  When I got the fountain home, we immediately began the habit of keeping the toilet lid closed and I put the fountain -- just the basin with no power yet -- next to the toilet so she could get used to it.  A couple days later and a lot of finger crossing, we placed the fountain by her food and plugged it in.  She loves it!  She used to whine when we would leave the toilet lid closed because she wanted the water, but she no longer does.  I am very please with the product -- the design, the look, and it's quiet.  Highly recommend for cats who are picky about water!  I went ahead and purchased the nine-pack of filters because it was a good deal.  They say you should change the filter once a month.
1	1298592000	We have the drinkwell fountain which is awesome, however the plastic was a concern and has alot of nooks to clean. So we decided to splurge and purchased the the stainless steel raindrop design fountain by Pioneer Pet. Don't waste your money if your cat likes a fountain that resembles a trickling water faucet. This is not a fountain, it is a water slide that bubbles. It splashes water from every angle, so have plenty of towels on hand. Very disappointed, I wish the Drinkwell would make the original in stainless steel. I prefer cleaning it, rather than constantly wiping up water from the floor. I found a ceramic fountain by Lucky Kitty that looks great, easy to clean and it does not use filters! Sadly they do not ship to the U.S.A. In the meantime my husband is designing his own creation.
4	1297900800	My kitties love this fountain. It isn't too big so it fits perfectly in my kitchen. One of them loves to drink from the "slide" and the other one likes to drink out of the bowl so they are both happy with it.The only reason I wouldn't give it a 5-star is that the set-up instructions could be much clearer. Note: read the "clean your unit" section to get the proper info on how to set it up. My first few tries were frustrating and at first I thought the unit didn't work. You have to flip the tiny switch on the pump to the highest setting before you set it up (This is not in the set-up instructions)---go figure. If you don't, there won't be enough pressure to make the water rise up through the tube--it will be barely a trickle.Also, be careful that you align the tube correctly over the hole.Once it was up and running, it took only 5 minutes before they were both drinking out of it.
4	1296864000	this fountain is a good purchase for cats who beg at the faucets for water!i think the pros outweigh the cons and it's a good product in general.Pros:-cats took to it quickly (less than a day) and now they don't paw at their water dish before drinking.-my cats didn't have any issues with the motor noise-noise is minimal as long as the water level is kept VERY high-most extra noise can be quickly stopped if you tap or shift the lid a little-cats did not get scared of their own reflection as other reviewers stated but they've been using stainless steel dishes for their whole lives.-i don't have any problems with spilling or run-over water and i have it on the middle setting-east to take apart to clean-does not need refilling as often as other reviewers stated. every few days (3?) just add a glass of water. this is simply to avoid noise. it will still work even if you let it get lower (like on vacation).Cons:-hair/fuzz needs to be brushed off the motor's intake every few days (it works fine if you don't but i'm sure it has to work harder)-water 'trickle' noise that recently started a few days ago can be annoying.-price. definitely buy it online. it's a cheap as you'll find it.-kind of ugly. looks sleek in photo but in person it's just sort of weird. plus the black cord should not be black.-speaking of the cord, there should be an easier way to remove the motor's cord from the bowl when you need to clean it.
5	1296864000	This is by far the best watering system I've purchased. It's as quiet as other reviewer's have said. I have a small dog and a cat that share it. They are drinking more, and seem to prefer this type of water flow to  that of the Drinkwell I used for years. The stainless steel is easier to keep clean and healthier that plastic.
1	1296604800	1) The design of the water flow is prone to splashing out of the dish and making a mess. Especially if you fill it too high. Which means that you have to fill it A LOT because the fill target zone between splashing out and going below the line at which the pump will work is relatively narrow.2) The weight of the stainless steel is significantly lighter than it looks in the pictures. It feels chinsy, but more importantly, because the top piece is not heavy, it tends to rattle from the vibration of the pump.3) It also appears the filter is not working because the pump seems to be prone to clogging from hair.4) The pump is not as quiet as in described and will make a lot of noise if the water gets to a certain level which is not very low.
5	1296604800	I like it better than the others I've had.  Once I assembled it and put it back together a couple of times I finally figured it out.  The cats like it and the flow is adjustable so that you can get a hard flow or soft flow.  I like the flow at the medium setting. There was no "getting used to it" as far as the cats were concerned.  They took to it immediately. It's easier to clean which I do weekly. I feel it was well worth the price.
5	1296259200	Love it! My boyfriend got it for me since he new I was thinking of getting the cats one. I love it. I keep it in the bedroom where the cats hang out, and it's almost completely silent. Occasionally the metal top gets a little out of its resting place and rattles, but that's easily fixed by just touching it. There's the smallest moving water sound I can hear, and it's actually quite soothing.The cats love it (I can tell they're peeing more, too). They were immediately interested and took to it right away. It's next to their cat tree and bed and favorite window and I see them taking a slurp all the time.All in all I adore it and would recommend it to a friend in an instant!
4	1295222400	I wish I could say my cats love this bowl.  I didn't go over as well as I thought it would.  One of my cats loves drinking out of the sink, so I thought this would be perfect.  Both of our cats do happily drink out of the bowl though, but neither of them drink from the fountain portion that I have seen.  They do, however, seem to appreciate the always fresh water.  It looks great and matches our chrome cat bowls.  I also have to say that it's very easy to clean!
3	1295222400	My cats do use the product but I got the impression (prior to purchasing it) that it was a more aesthetically pleasing fountain. It looks like a stainless steel, old-fashioned urinal. The image online is accurate but once you get close, you'd swear you're hovering over a toilet with flowing water. It is quiet and the cats seem content and those are both important features.
5	1295222400	In the past, I've had two plastic fountains that always got so dirty and were difficult to clean. When I came across this fountain, I was excited. My Ragdoll, who never went near a plastic fountain, is drinking from it. It's very quiet. None of my cats play in it or drink from the running water, but that's just my cats. I have 3 cats, and I think the amount of water it holds is fine. An adult cat should drink about a cup of water per day. (Excessive thirst can be a sign of medical problems.) I'm very happy with this fountain! Update: these fountains seem to get dirty very fast. I'm not sure they are worth the maintenance work and have gone back to plain stainless steel bowls. :(
5	1295136000	I bought this to replace a cheap small cat fountain that was splattering water all over the place.  The fountain design is great.  The motor is quiet and it is very easy to clean.  My cat drinks from it frequently.  I am very happy with this product!
5	1295049600	My two cats began drinking from this fountain right away!  This is the 3rd fountain I have purchased. Previously, I had  Petmate & Drinkwell fountains that were not easy to clean, but this one washes easily; plus there are fewer parts and they are all in one place.  The plastic fountains eventually developed white deposits from the water that could not be removed.  I believe the stainless steel surface will eliminate this problem and is more sanitary.  Don't turn the pump up to the highest setting as the water runs too fast and splashes out on the floor!  After looking at the latest fountains put out by other companies, I chose this one because of its design and composition.  So far, I am very pleased with it.
1	1295049600	I bought this fountain and was dissatisfied right from the beginning. The parts did not fit together well which made the fountain rattle loudly while operating. The encasing where the motor was housed would not close properly no matter how hard I tried. Within two days the motor failed and was not pumping the water properly through the filter. I spent a lot of money for this fountain and was thoroughly disgusted on the lack of quality of the product. I would recommend buying any of the Drinkwell fountains...at least they last far longer than two days.
1	1294963200	This fountain is VERY small and very light weight. When the box arrived I was shocked! it was the size of a shoe box so that told me right then, this thing is SMALL!!!!It doesn't hold much water and is very loud.  I have it sitting on a tile floor and thought maybe because it was stainless and sitting on the tile floor that was causing the loudness.  NOPE, put it on a padded place mat and it's STILL loud.I have 4 small cats and so far they seem to like it, but I don't. You will spend your life filling it and if you fill too much it makes a mess.  The place mat is always wet.I am going to look for something else. This is SO not worth the price!!!!
4	1294704000	this product is as expected - nice design, solid build, works well.  it arrived very quickly and my cat seems to like it.  good purchase.
5	1294704000	I received this as a Christmas gift my 5 cats, and so far its been a real treat. Three of them are going on 10 years of age, one is going on 5 years of age, and another is a little over a year. The older ones I'd been worrying about getting the proper hydration to stave off any urinary tract infections and crystals in the urine. It has not been a problem yet, but you never know as they get older. However the youngest one has developed "kitty acne" on her chin, its scabby and had open sores from her scratching at it. She also fancied herself a Labrador retriever; she digs in the water bowl, quickly emptying out what I just put in. After nearly killing myself on a wet tile floor one morning, enough was enough.So it is with that in mind I give this water fountain 5 stars.PROs:- It has completely stopped the water bowl spilling. She tried to put her paws into it the first night, stopped, and hasn't tried it since. It seems the fountain action distracts her enough that she just drinks instead of playing with it.- It has also stopped the fascination with being in the kitchen sink to lick the faucet and conversely eating my orchids clustered around my kitchen sink. Running water in a gadget on the floor is apparently much less effort and less dangerous (for them when I find them on the counter).-It's kept the water clean and moving in such a way that they all seem to drink more.- Its largely cleared up the "kitty acne" problem and kept it at bay. We scrubbed her chin with a diluted benzoyl peroxide cleanser then instituted the new bowl, and so far not a single sore in almost a month.- Both halves of the bowl is easily cleaned and disinfected in the dishwasher with the rest of our dishes.CONs:The only thing I don't like is that if it gets even a slight bit low on water, the fountain starts sucking air and doesn't want to run, so you do have to refill it frequently. Again, its not that much of a detractor, just a mere inconvenience. I think if they would have made the filter housing one piece, with an opening in the bottom for inserting the filter cartridge, it wouldn't be a problem. But it sucks air about halfway up due to the clam-shell like housing.
1	1294358400	This fountain worked fine for about four days, then the pump stopped working.  I took the fountain apart, rinsed the filter, and got the pump to start working again.  Unfortunately, I didn't notice that the pump was now forcing water out of the dish (I assume it was trickling down the back, but I don't know for sure) and two days later discovered my wood floor soaking wet and water-damaged.  I've got a space heater on it now but the floor looks bad, it may be an expensive repair.  We're sticking with a basic, flat, pumpless water dish from now on.
3	1294272000	Does all it says and what other reviewers said. I previously was using a pet fountain for my cats which I bought at Petco, but realized only later after a vet visit, that plastic is not best option the cats I have. There are lots of reasons why, so, I was not going to argue with the trusted vet so I took them off the plastic pet fountain and filled a porcelain bowl up 3 times a day. They were okay with this. The only problem had to do with when I am away for more than a day and they need to drink.Alas I bought this pet fountain as stainless steel is about as sanitary as you can get, granted you actually wash the thing out every few days or so. THey though it was a little weird at first, probably because they could see their reflection. After about a week I noticed a lot more water was consumed.Pros- Cats like it (isnt that all that matters anyway?)- The noise can freak them out at first and they may not want to approach it.Cons- I dont like the pump settings from the pump. Its one of 3 settings (Flood, Power stream or trickle.)- Can be bit noisy as compared to my retired water pump. You really have to position the lid portion correctly and fiddle with it until its quiet. It has a tendency to rattle. I placed some rubber stoppers underneath the bowl to quiet it a bit.
3	1293667200	Pros:-Clean water-Cool water-Stainless steel dishCons:-High setting causes it to overflow and drip down the side-Drinking opening is small - dog didn't like that she bumped her head when she tried to get a drink-Short cord requires a nearby outlet-Instructions are semi-unclear on how to set it up correctly. Initially I put the motor in wrong and it would not pump the water out. It just gurgled and sat in there. Just be sure the opening on the motor lines up with the opening in the case.-Inner parts are plastic. I originally bought this because our Pom was thought to have a plastic allergy.-Doesn't hold much waterMake the opening larger and fix the few glitches and this is a nice dish, however I prefer the large resevoir types. I ended up sending it back because it did not meet expectations. I would have been better off spending my money elsewhere. May work for cats, but long-nosed dogs tend to bump their heads.
5	1293494400	We just threw out the ole Drinkwell Platinum and good ridens!!!! This one is soooo much better! Love that it is stainless steel! The Drinkwell used to get black slime in all of its nooks and crannies plus a million pieces to put together. It is not a water spout like the Drinkwell, but it works just the same. The cats love it. I highly recommend!
3	1293148800	Got this for our ancient cat, Bruce.  The pump was installed backwards, so we fixed that, and then the power was set so high that the water ran over the edge, so we fixed that.  Then it vibrated and made a lot of noise, so I put rubber bands between the upper and lower parts to keep them from rattling against each other.  Now, it's still a bit loud, but quieter than the fridge.  I depends on your tolerance level, and we are more sensitive to noise than most. Looks sort of like a bedpan, but who cares?  Brucie likes it.
5	1292803200	Really like this fountain.  It is super quiet and the cats (all 4) took to it almost immediately.  The oldster (17 years old) took some time to use it. He kept looking at the old dry fountain, but we put a regular water bowl next to the new fountain and in a few days he was using it.  It's super easy to clean, no fuss, the filter just slips in to place easily, and no corners to scrub.  We selected the stainless steel because of the uncertainty of the origin of the ceramic material, but we think the water actually stays cooler in the stainless steel. It is, so far,the best fountain we've tried, and we've tried several! I would certainly recommend this product to my friends.
5	1292544000	I bought the stainless steel version and it has performed very well.  It is super quiet and the cats took to it rapidly.  I had heard some complaints about it overflowing onto the counter - that could only happen due to either error on the owner's part in putting it together correctly or if the surface it was sitting on was uneven.
5	1292457600	This is one of my few reviews for any product.  But since there were so many mixed reviews on this fountain, I wanted to share my experience-especially since it has been such a good one.  My cat had a blocked urethra about 2 years ago,  when we switched him to urinary tract health food and a water drinking fountain.  After my vet bills and the fear of him ever having to go through this again, I bought the best water-drinking "encourager" apparatus I could buy.  That was the Drinkwell Platinum water fountain.  That fountain proved to need very frequent cleaning (we only have the one cat) and was a major pain to clean.  It has about 8 separate parts that all have to be disassembled to be washed, fit very awkwardly in the dishwasher, and don't even seem to get squeaky clean after being in the dishwasher and being scrubbed by hand. It is also big and having just the one cat, I wanted something smaller. (By the way, it would be perfectly fine for 2 cats.  If you have 3, then you will be filling it a lot, still worth it compared to cleaning the other though).  About 3 months ago, I was looking for a smaller, easier to clean alternative.  I found it!  My cat did not take to it right away, but did within a day or two.  After he got familiar with it, he loves it.  My husband even commented that he is drinking more water.  That should say enough, but I will mention a few more things.  Even with more frequent visits to this fountain, it needs far less frequent cleaning.  I don't know if its the stainless steel or what?  It is compact, quiet, and a breeze to clean.  It has three parts.  Simple!  The base, the pump, and the cover.  I throw the base and cover in the dishwasher and scrub the pump by hand.  Squeaky clean.  I know some reviewers said the pump is loud.  Well, mine makes some noise, but only for about 10-15 seconds when I first turn the pump back on after cleaning (while the water is being circulated again).  I do need to refill it more than the Drinkwell, but not everyday or even more than twice a week.  My cat and I could not love this thing any more!!!
2	1292371200	We used to have a Drinkwell fountain that had lasted for several years before the plastic broke. I saw this fountain and thought it was going to be an upgrade. However, the fountain is noisy and constantly needs to be refilled. If you keep the water level to the top it's not as noisy, but you must refill it at least once a day (sometimes more often). I've also found that the filter doesn't last long and a lot of debris builds up in the main dish even after I've just cleaned it. Lastly, I feel the design isn't quite right. They give you a power cord to thread through a hole and then place down inside a casing that goes inside the bowl. I'm okay with the pump getting wet obviously, but a little uncomfortable with the power cord being exposed to water and feel it's an electrical hazard. I've owned the fountain a couple of months now and the cord already seems to be wearing down too much from the constant water exposure. Other than that the design is cute and fits compactly in my kitchen. Both my cat and dog like running water, but we'll probably end up getting a new fountain in the next couple of months. I would not recommend this fountain, it's not worth the cost.
5	1291939200	I decided to get this pet fountain after one of my cats got a UTI. I became very skeptical after seeing several reviews stating that this product was not the best. To my great relief, after receiving it in the mail, this fountain is just what I was looking for! It is quiet, looks good, and has not spilled one drop of water outside of the dish. My cat seems to be fine with it and it looks really nice with our appliances (I am happy that I didn't have to get a plastic one). would definitely recommend this to others!
5	1291680000	I bought this bowl because my cat got kitty acne from her former fountain and refused to drink still water. I liked her former fountatin, and so did she but she was getting kitty acne (a sore from rubbing against the plastic seam) on the underside of her chin. This bowl isn't very heavy, but it's the perfect weight for an average sized cat. I also like the fact that it is made entirely out of stainless steel (minus the pump) which eliminates the slime and the algae that would grow in her former plastic drinking fountain. This bowl is also very easy to clean, it's very easy to take apart, and you can put it in the dishwasher (minus the pump). The stainless steel also keeps the water cooler. It took about a week for her to get used to it but after the transition period she drinks more out of this fountain than she did her previous fountain.
5	1291507200	My cat loves this product, he would not use the catit fountain because the pump was to loud, he and I both lilk this as this cat lives in my room exclusively.
3	1290643200	I was excited to find a fountain made of an unbreakable material that didn't leach plastic into my cat's water supply, as our  Drinkwell did.  BUT, as much as my three cats like a fountain, this one seemed to spook them.  They would come up to drink and slink away.  I kept it out for 10 days and they continued to slink around it and come up to it, but would never take a drink.  I think it confused them.  If it had the same dull finish as a ss fridge, it might solve the problem.  Had to send it back - which was no problem.  Ordered directly from Amazon, not an individual vendor, so return was simple.
1	1290384000	I got this for our girls ( 1 doggie, 1 kitty )...they refused to be around each other let alone share a water dish. I got this in hopes of 1 Keeping the water fresh and 2 in hopes with the differnt drinking areas that they would share and I could eliminate a water bowl.  They were completly freaked out by it at first but now?? Heaven!! My doggie loves the large open water bowl part and my kitty loves the water fountian. Thank Goodness!! They are sharing!!! So far, So good...When the water gets even a little bit low it does make a slight humming sound so I would say I have to put a drinking glass of water in it everyday to keep it quiet. Other then that no comliants!9/4/12- Im sad to say that this stopped working a month after having it. I would not recommend this any more!
1	1288828800	While the concept of encouraging my cats to drink more water is excellent and the stainless steel material is healthier than plastic, I found that the motor oozed a pink fluid after about 3 months of usage.  The fluid could have only come from the motor, because the dishwashing liquid I use is blue (Dawn).  This was my second Pioneer Pet fountain purchase.  The first one was the black ceramic fountain - same manufacturer and same motor.  It also oozed the pink fluid.  Two for two.  Consequently, I do NOT recommend this product for at all.
1	1288828800	Some of the problems we have had with this product might be due to defects, but despite that it is not as elegant or easy to clean as other reviews had led me to believe.  Less than a week after receiving the fountain, it stop working.  My husband thought that I had overfilled it.  We took it apart let it dry completely and started using it again a few days later with less water.  It stop working a few days later again.  We discovered a lot of harden crud stuck in the openings of the motor.  We again let it dry completely, put in a new filter and proceeded to start using it again with Culligan water only; no hard tap water.  Again, it stopped running in a matter of days.  Even if this problem is one of defective parts and a replacement would work better, I still cannot rate this item above one star because it looks like cheap metal not sleek stainless steel.  In a matter of minutes after you plug it in it is covered with unsightly water stains and takes a bit of scrubbing to remove the gunk that adheres to the bottom and sides.  We will be going back to using a simple ceramic bowl that we will fill with fresh, clean water twice a day and wash in a matter of seconds once a day quite easily with just soap and warm water.  I think this fountain is just a container for bacteria to collect and is not nearly as nice looking as the pictures on the website.  Unfortunately, because we kept giving the product the benefit of the doubt and thought it might be something we were doing wrong we are probably too late to get a refund. And I am not nasty enough to sell it to some unsuspecting buyer to try and get some of my money back.  If this product was perhaps only $10 I could possibly recommend it, but in my opinion you are better off just buying a really nice decorated ceramic bowl for even less than $10.
5	1288310400	This is a great fountain.  All four of our cats love it.  We had been using a Drinkwell 360, but one of our cats developed severe chin acne so we had to restrict her access to plastic dishes.The reservoir is fairly small compared to the 360--it needs to have water put in it every day or the pump starts making an awful noise.  But cats should have fresh water daily in any case so this is not a problem.The metal used is pretty thin and light, and that's actually a nice feature, even though it is a little cheaper looking than the photos suggest.  It's nice for cleaning purposes that the parts aren't too heavy.We've been using it almost 3 months and no problems so far.  If you buy one, get the 3-pack of replacement filters too.  One of our cats upchucked in the water recently and that filter was done for--I was very glad to have replacements on hand.  And my cat's chin acne did clear up since we got rid of the plastic dishes.
1	1288224000	I ordered this fountain so that my cats would have fresh, clean water. I felt the stainless steel would avoid the etching problem that occurs with plastic fountains. The parts that are stainless achieve this goal. HOWEVER, the pump housing is plastic and there is a rubber gasket from the pump to the fountain top. After about a month, the rubber gasket developed heavy black streaks of what I can only assume is mold/mildew. This is despite my cleaning the fountain thoroughly every 3 or 4 days.  I had to discontinue using it as a fountain because of this - one of my cats has developed urine crystals (probably from not wanting to drink from this fountain) I am now using the bowl part just as a plain stainless water bowl - just like any $10 stainless pet bowl you could buy in Target. I should have just bought several water bowls and washed them every day to start with - would have been less expensive and better for my cats.
5	1287532800	We replaced a "Drink Well" fountain with this one.Great choice. Silent. Cats took to it right away.There was a very slight rubber smell that was eliminated with one soap & water washing.Great design. I highly recommend this product.
1	1287273600	My cats loved this but it broke after two months. After replacing the filter the water flow slowed and eventually just stopped. It was too late to return it (2 months). What a waste of $80 !
5	1287100800	After reading all the reviews of this product I was hesitant to purchase it. But I am very glad that I did, our two cats love drinking from both sides of the water dish. We had a plastic waterfall dish prior to this one and it was always a fight to keep it clean. My children cleaned this water dish without prompting and didn't  have any problems putting it back together. The other perk of this dish is the height, I can open my lower cabinet right over it! This dish has made the entire family happy!
1	1287014400	After reading the positive reviews, I had high hopes that my cats would be enticed to drink more water. For the first few days they were very cautious and gave it a wide berth.  Since then they have completely ignored it. Unfortunately, 30 days has passed since I received it.  I guess I will thoroughly clean it and give it another try in a different location.  If that doesn't work, well, I'll know that I wasted $57.  If it does work out, I'll come back and update this review.Update, 10 minutes later:Never mind. When I lifted the cover off, I discovered there was some sort of black greasy material smeared around the pump housing and a strange odor. I emptied the cloudy water and when I went to wash it out discovered the pump housing and the dish are both slimy. Absolutely disgusting. IMO, If I wouldn't drink it. Why should they?  The garbage leaves in the morning.P.S. And no, this is not the first time it has been cleaned and thoroughly rinsed.
5	1286323200	If you are in the market for a pet fountain, I highly recommend you spend the extra $20 or so and buy a Pioneer Pet raindrop fountain. My cats took a week or so to warm up to it but now they seem to love it. Cat #1 prefers to drink from the "babbling brook" part and Cat #2 prefers the well. I actually "tested" the fountain when I first bought it (I know, I know) and the water tasted fine. The sides of this device are high which cuts down crud/hair getting swept into the well.I had a Petmate Deluxe Fresh Flow Pet Fountain before and didn't really like it. The plastic got slimy quick and there were so many nooks and crannies to clean. The Pioneer Pet easily comes apart for a hand wash or trip though the dishwasher. I always wash the inside plastic shell and pumping device by hand of course. I don't use the filter that was in the box but just fill it with Brita filtered water.And finally, the pump is dead silent and I think the design/material is sharp. Give it a try!!
5	1286236800	I had been using a drinkwell fountain for my two cats, and along with the pump being noisy, it was not horribly attractive and one of my cats would rip the lid that covers the area housing the filter to drink out of that part of the fountain only.  Along with that she was constantly moving the fountain about and spilling water all over the place.  By ordering the heavier ceramic verison of this raindrop design I have eliminated PoohBears ability to create massive spills on my countertop.  Also the fountain was so so easy to put together , it seemed too easy to be true.  When I first plugged in the fountain,  I was pleased right away to note how much more quiet the pump was compared to the one on the drinkwell fountain.  Also PoohBear took to drinking out of the fountain within mere minutes and the fountain is way more asthetically pleasing to the eye and looks like a fountain you would add to your home decor.  I have had it for over a week now, and no problems, no complaints!  I am very pleased with this fountain and would recommend it to anyone.
3	1286236800	This is a great product in concept BUT its only drawback is the fact that it's rather noisy.....too noisy to be kept in a bedroom, for instance.The elevated noise may be made worse by the stainless metal material as a plastic or ceramic version MAY soak up more sound....I reiterate...MAY!On the other hand, the product is well made and is relatively easy to clean and refill.......We're keeping ours as a backup water dish for a bedroom with 3 older female cats who like to drink water in the shower..........Steve
5	1285977600	It took my cat a couple days of wary watching before she would try this fountain, but once she did she was hooked! She is now drinking more water than she used to, which is good for her health. I was a bit surprised that she chose to drink from the bowl side and not from the trickling water side. Be sure your pet can access all sides of the fountain until you see which part they like.It is so easy clean and assemble that I think if she had thumbs my cat could do it herself! Because it is stainless steel it does not cultivate bacterial growth as the plastic fountains do. I have the pump on the medium setting and have no problems at all with noise or splashing. An excellent product!
4	1285804800	Our cat took to this product immediately.  First she only drank from the bowl, but after a few days she began drinking from the bubbler and still does to this day.  It is perfect if you leave the cat alone for a weekend as you know the cat will have an ample supply of fresh filtered water.  We also got this as we had heard from numerous sources that cats drinking from plastic bowls can develop kitty acne from the plastic leaching chemicals.  Only reason I didn't give the product 5 stars is the fact that this is our second one.  The first only lasted less than 30 days and the motor burnt out.  Since it was within 30 days though, got a full refund and actually bought this this $5.00 cheaper the 2nd time.
5	1285200000	I have been told that running water helps our feline friends to drink more water... which helps to prevent uninary tract infections. I had another (plastic) version of a cat drinking fountain, but after needing 3 new pumps in less than a year plus the hassle of taking it apart and cleaning the various cracks and crevices... it is in the trash.  This stainless steel pet drinking fountain is a big improvement... simple design, easy to clean, quiet AND my cats like it!  Their metal ID tags bang on the side of the bowl when they drink, but it doesn't seem to bother them.  This one is a winner in my book!  Now, let's see how long the pump works...
5	1285113600	My cat and I LOVE this fountain.  The stainless steel keeps the water cool.  It is super easy to clean.  It is quiet so people don't hear it and it doesn't scare the cat.  The filters are easy to insert. I have not had any problems with water overflowing or the water levels of the fountain.  I had a Drinkwell, but I thought it was a big hassle, this product is a breeze to use for both of us!!
4	1284768000	At first the cats in my household were afraid to approach it, but now they drink from it all the time.  I love that it is easy to take appart to wash.
2	1284595200	i bought the stainless steel version, the design looks good, but its not easy to wash it, you have to unplug a lot connection.the worse part is the water got very cloudy easily, some whitish cloud like dirt develops in just about 3 days, and you have to wash the whole system again, the filter doesnt works well, and the parts holding the filter is not that easy to clean. Now i dont use any filter at all, just let the water run.The system is quiet which is very good ( because the filter system is very tiny). one of my dog loves drinking out of it, the other which dont drink a lot of water doesnt.
3	1284508800	This pet fountain is good in theory. In practice the instructions were really simple, but putting it together wasnt. The holes in the pump, filter casing and the body of the fountain must be lined up, and this has to be done manually as they arent lined up straight out of the package. This is not included in the instructions. Neither is the switch on the body of the pump which has to be turned all the way to the right to function. Once I had all that figured out and tinkered with so that the fountain was actually functioning, the finished product is loud and splashes water over the body of the fountain and the floor. The noise has made it a tough sell for my cat.  Not satisfied for a 60 dollar price tag.
5	1283385600	I have three cats (two kittens, one adult) and they love it. My older cat just sits there and keeps drinking and she's the one obsessed with the toilet. One of my kittens is a complete water monster and she sleeps cozily next to the bowl. I don't agree with other people who say this isn't well-made. It is the standard stainless steel thickness similar to all pet food bowls. I really don't know what they are expecting. It is SO easy to clean and put together. Filter easily changes and I love the fact that it isn't plastic (as one of my kittens is prone to acne). All in all, this is money well spent! My chihuahua, on the other hand, doesn't really trust it yet. She literally looks like the dog in the picture where she extended her neck to sniff it and was a little freaked by it. I'm sure she'll come around :)
5	1281225600	I have gone through three pet fountains well before their natural lifespan because the calcium and other sediment in our local water builds up so badly on the plastic that no amount of decalcification and cleaning will get it off.  While it's theoretically no harm to our cat, it bothers me that it ends up looking so icky and that the plastic starts feeling rough.  I've even tried using the water that's gone through our Brita filter, but either we forget to use it or the build-up just happens anyway.  One of the fountains we had used in the past had a stainless steel track but a plastic reservoir.  I thought that might help, and it did.  The track was easy to clean and stayed nice, but the plastic bowl and reservoir got the same build-up.After my most recent fountain started looking not-so-fresh, I decided to search again for a pet fountain.  Finally, someone has made one of these fountains almost entirely out of stainless steel!  I ordered it right away.  In fact, I ordered it on Friday and it arrived on Sunday (yes, SUNDAY).  Setup was very easy.  The design is very elegant, and, thanks to the curves, there's no corners for things to get caught in.  The stainless steel parts are incredibly easy to clean.The only plastic part is the case enclosing the pump and the filter.  It's a plastic clamshell piece.  It's small enough that I think the calcification won't be as much of a problem with it.  Also, it's hidden, so if it is just a matter of it not looking as nice, you aren't looking at it.Best of all, this fountain operates silently.  I know many of the fountains say this, but this one really does run silent.  I think that is part of why my cat took to it right away.  We usually had to wean him from one to another, but this one he went right up to and drank...no "break-in" period.It's also just beautiful to look at.  You could put this in your bathroom and guests would think it was one of those zen fountains instead of a pet fountain.
5	1281139200	We switched to this steel fountain, after our previous plastic fountain gave our cat "Kitty Acne". About a week after we made the switch, her black acne spots on her chin cleared right up. The only drawback on this fountain is that the unit that houses the actual pump, sits so high up in the base of the water, the the fountain has to be full of water all the time. Otherwise it makes noise like the water level is too low, & it is really only 1/2 empty. Not a big deal though.
4	1280707200	We have a ceramic fountain, it is too heavy & cumbersome for us to clean (needs cleaningtwice a week).  Cats love it.  Am buying this one, since it weighs a lot less.
5	1279324800	I love my stainless steel water fountain. The cats are drinking more water andthe stainless steel keeps the water cooler. It is quite and easy to maintain andkeep clean.
3	1279065600	I love the design, but the filter isn't very functional.  It certainly doesn't protect the water pump from debris. After 3-4 days, the pump fills up with hair and barely flows. It's a real pain to clean when this happens. I have a medium-hair cat and a small short-hair dog. I can't imagine what would happen with more fur around.
3	1277424000	my cats totally LOVE this fountain. i had a drinkwell before, WHAT a nightmare. so many nooks and crannies for debri to hide in, guh, so glad i found this bad boy! I loveee... That i can put it through the dishwasher. I am borderline OCD.. So i really need to feel that i can thoroughly sanitize everything for my family and animals! I actually have the black ceramic one, which is very appealing to the eye as well as to the cat. I have three snooty persian kitties who like their things just so, and when they saw this thing hit the floor they were STOKED! one of them, Squishy, has hardly stepped away from the fountain since i set it down at 4 pm today (now 10:24 pm.) Hes in maddd love. Its worth the money, its so easy to clean, not hard to disassemble. Its amazing. I'd buy it again for sure.
5	1276300800	I searched around for a stainless steel pet fountain for our two cats and puppy. The cats had been drinking a lot from our bathroom faucet, so they really like flowing water. The Pioneer Pet Rain Drop Pet Fountain is sized reasonably, the water flows down the ramp and into the "still water" area, and is very quiet. Our cats drink from both the sill area as well as the top of the water flow. Our puppy loves to drink the water as it falls down the ramp.A huge positive in my opinion is that I have been re-using the filter by refilling it myself. The filter casing is plastic and is in two halves that fit together. You can carefully separate the filter top and bottom(it has small plastic posts on one side that fit into holes on the other side of the filter casing)and dump out the old filter floss and activated carbon. Then go to a pet supply store and buy a bag of floss and activated carbon, I fill up one side with the carbon, then put some filter floss on top and rejoin the top and bottom halves. The result is a fresh new filter. A big bag of filter floss is $5 at the pet store, and a big jar of activated carbon is also about $5. So for about $10 I have over a year supply of the materials for new filters - which is much cheaper than buying new filters themselves. I've been changing the filter 1X per month, washing out the filter housing and pump, and running the pet fountain itself through the dishwasher. This pet fountain has ran reliably for over 6 months now. Our cats and puppy love it and we highly recommend it. It also looks stylish, which is a nice bonus.
5	1275868800	I purchased this fountain for my cat, Willie, who is going to be 20 years old this month.  He is unbelievably healthy for his age but does have CRF.  Because he should drink as much water as he can and loves it from the faucet, I thought this would be the perfect solution.  Well . . . it still could be.  It's been operational for 10 days and I've seen him actually enjoy a refreshing drink from it twice.  Since I'm not watching him every minute, a few kitty licks could go unnoticed.It took some time for him to figure out that the object on the floor was for him, that it was a source of water, and that there is more than one way to capture his drink.  He seems to prefer the water at the source where it bubbles up or as it runs down the little ramp toward the bowl.The fountain runs very quietly.  Willie does not hear well anymore but if he did, I don't think the pump noise would concern him.  There is one suggestion I do have, however, when you're preparing this fountain for your kitty.  After you've gotten all the parts washed and have filled the fountain with water, let it run a short while, then empty that batch of water.  Refill with fresh water and run it a while longer.  Now comes the funny part--get down on your hands and knees and sniff the fountain where the water bubbles out.  When I did this, it was no longer a mystery why Willie was not immediately drawn to drink from his new fountain.  There is a rubber grommet where the water flows out and it smells so strongly of rubber that's it awful!  No one would want a drink from something that stinky, especially not a kitty with a sensitive nose.  Keep running fresh water through the fountain until you're convinced that YOU would be willing to take a little drink from your kitty's new fountain.  When there is no more smell, your kitty will eventually be tempted to investigate and hopefully taste the water that flows from his new gift.Good Luck!***********UPDATE*************6/19/10I have updated my rating of this fountain from 3 stars to 5.  Willie is really enjoying his new source of water!  He's tried drinking from the bubbling source, the ramp, and the still pool at the bottom.  He likes having a choice.  Just in case this didn't make the cut with him, I left his "old-fashioned" regular bowl of water setting next to the fountain and he walks right passed it in favor of his new gift.Also, you should know the cleaning of this fountain couldn't be easier.  After I've washed the human dishes on Saturday, I simply unplug, disassemble, and hand wash the entire fountain.  I put it back together and we're good to go for another week.  My plan is to disassemble the motor and clean it when I change the filter--which is going to be the middle of July.  I think 45 days will be appropriate for both activities.Well, once again, good luck if you purchase this pet fountain.  I hope your experience is as favorable as ours.  Two paws up from Willie, the 20-year-old cat.
1	1274227200	I had multiple problems with this fountain. We first tried the ceramic version, but our cats broke it within the first week. Luckily, Amex loss and damage protection covered it. So next, we tried the stainless steel version. We ended up returning it, again within a week for a number of reasons:1) The design of the water flow is prone to splashing out of the dish and making a mess. Especially if you fill it too high. Which means that you have to fill it A LOT because the fill target zone between splashing out and going below  the line at which the pump will work is relatively narrow.2) The weight of the stainless steel is significantly lighter than it looks in the pictures. It feels chinsy, but more importantly, because the top piece is not heavy, it tends to rattle from the vibration of the pump.3) The pump itself failed within the first week. It also appears that there is no filter, so the pump seems to be prone to clogging from hair.4) The pump is not as quiet as in the drinkwell models.5) Our cats wanted nothing to do with it. Perhaps it's the shiny metal, but they seemed to prefer the plastic drinkwell fountain much more.We're ordering the Drinkwell Platinum instead.
1	1274140800	Well I thought it was great but once again another product that doesn't last.  I would have hoped for a couple of years at least.  I was very careful with it cleaned it out (including the motor as instructed) but it just pooped out.  So now it's sitting in the closet.  I bought a whole bunch of filters too so they will also go to waste.  It's just sad that nothing lasts anymore.  My cats really liked this one.Here is my old reviewI stopped using fountains because they were all made of plastic which breeds bacteria easily.  So I was really happy that someone finally came out with stainless steel.  It is pretty easy to clean and is well constructed.  There are a rubber part that connects the two pieces that you have to make sure is cleaned well.  My cats love it so I am happy!
2	1273795200	She took a drink as soon as I set it up, so I was hopeful.  Then, she stared at it for two days.  Finally, she completely lost interest.  I changed the water for a couple of weeks, ran it through the dishwasher, and gave it away.  It appears to be of higher quality in the photo than the actual product received.
5	1273276800	Great item.  My cats love the circulating water, and it is much easier to keep clean than the bubbling dispenser I had.  I love the stainless steel.  Shipping was extremely fast....can't go wrong here!
4	1273104000	Just set this up and was very impressed with how quiet it is. By that, I mean I don't hear any pump noise what-so-ever. We tried a Petmate fountain some time back and it made considerable noise that our cats never got used to. I'll have to wait and see if the cats take to this or not, but noise is certainly not a deterrent.The unit was very simple to get up-and-running. I don't think this would be as good a fountain for dogs as I think that while drinking from the odd shaped opening, a dogs snout would easily dislodge the top part of the fountain.Another thing I'll be interested to see is whether this fountain gets scummy like all the others do. It has a replaceable filter, but so do the others and that hasn't prevented the scum in-and-of itself. I'll post back after a few weeks or if something noteworthy occurs.
4	1273104000	This fountain is great if you have one or 2 small animals-our dog and cat share it and they are the same size. It does spill over where the water runs down into the bottom if you fill it too full. Our rug was soaking one morning and we didn't know why until we saw the fountain nearly empty! And it does make sputtering noises if it gets low at all-sounds like it's really low but it's not-but it's nice to have a circulating fountain for fresh water for them. It has to be filled probably every other day and cleaned once a week but the filter seems to last 2 weeks and it stays way cleaner than the plastic variety! That's the best part!
5	1271376000	I was getting really worried about my cat, Zoe, as her water bowl did not appear to be getting any action. Ad this to the fact that Zoe would literally LEAP the moment any faucet would turn on, I was very concerned about her being at risk for a urinary infection. It's not at all sensible to keep the taps running all day for her, so this was a fantastic buy!It's about the same cost as all the other kitty fountains out there, but I feel it is hands down the prettiest out there. I was really attracted to the black ceramic fountain, and probably would have gotten that one if it wasn't back ordered. That said, the steel fountain looks really slick on my bamboo floors.Zoe immediately took the fountain (though she played with it a lot in the first few days, that calmed once she got used to it and there are no more puddles on the floor!). She loves drinking right out of the fountain, but she also likes licking the water right off the incline as well. I've never seen her drink out of the pool part of the bowl, but we already knew she didn't like bowls :)I have the fountain on the highest setting, so it's definitely noticeable when you are in the room(my living room is connected to my kitchen). I quickly got used to it though, once I convinced myself I didn't have to get up to make sure that sounds wasn't the faucets running! This might bother someone so I'd like to note the lower setting was nearly silent.Aside from my Breeze kitty litter system(LOVE!), this is my favorite purchase for my kitty. She loves it cause it makes the right noises to get her excited about drinking, and I love it cause she's drinking!! And it's very pretty and fits in well with my apartment. I would highly recommend.Would like to note that cleaning looks simple, but I haven't had it long enough yet to report on this. Will update at a later time.***UPDATE 5.18.10*** Having just cleaned out the fountain today, I can assure you it was incredibly easy to clean, and clean thoroughly.. even for tired, grumpy, just got home from work me :)There are four main pieces on the fountain: The top piece that sits in the lower bowl, and a plastic container inside (that holds the motor and filter) which just snaps right apart. It takes a few seconds to pull out the motor from the inner piece, but once it's out, it was very simple to wash down all four pieces with a sponge. The insides are all large and curved and easy to scrub down with a sponge, no tiny areas you need to dig into.This was a big feature for me, because I know I am not good at keeping up on intricate, detailed cleaning. I couldn't bear to have a fountain that wasn't easy to clean.. it would just be a pain for both me and the cat! This fountain really is beautiful, easy to clean, and the filter works like a champ!
4	1269302400	I had ordered the ceramic fountain, but got the stainless instead as the ceramic one was back ordered.  While not as pretty, it is more practical, as it will not break if knocked around.  The parts go together easily, and the cats took to it quickly. Some drink the flowing water, and somedrink in the "quiet " part of the bowl.  It is not as much of a fountain as some of the other styles (the water runs down a trough into bowl) but the cats don't seem to want to play in it quite as much.  One star taken off because while it hold 50 some odd ounces, if it gets down a third the pump will not move water, so it needs to be refilled more frequently than I had expected.  It is easy to clean, and that is a big bonus.  The filter needs to be replaced once a month (at least at my house, where the well water has a lot of sediment) and that might get pricy.  All and all I am pleased. I do not use it for my dogs though, as I would need to refill constantly.  A good choice for people who want to encourage their cats to drink more (Kidney disease, urinary tract problems)AFTER A YEAR 2/11:  Had to stop using this, as the cats did want to play with it.  They would dislodge the top and I would find water everywhere.  The filter was not useful, and the pump screen got clogged easily.  (I have many cats.) I bought two, and on the first the pump motor died after a few months.  Went back to the drinkwell.
