5	1395360000	I was in a car accident a few years ago which resulted in a herniated disk. Ive had back pains and problems sleeping ever since. I spent a lot of money on chiropractors, physical therapy, massage therapy, etc. I decided to search on amazon for equipment that could help and I came across this mat. $40? Sure why not I'll give it a try. Its cheaper than one session at the chiro, pt, or mt.Right when UPS dropped it off, I gave it a try. I laid on it and was thinking that there is no way that this is going to help at all. It was kinda painfully annoying to help relax me. So I put it aside and tried the other products that I received in the same order.Later that night I decided to really give it a try. I got ready for bed and laid on it without a shirt on. Honestly I didn't like it, I was thinking it was too painful for me to fall asleep on it but i was waiting to see if the pain would go away. The next thing I know my girlfriend is poking me and saying, &#34;HEY! You're snoring really really loud.&#34; I was amazed! After a few minutes of bearing with the pain, i literally just passed out into deep sleep.This mat is GREAT!! Once you can get past the painful few minutes, it def does the job extremely well! I recommend it to anyone with back pains or problems sleeping.
5	1395014400	It takes some getting used to, especially without a shirt, but this is incredible.  Have a tough headache you can't get rid of, or neck tightness, or back pain?  Here is your tool.  Does the trick.
5	1394755200	When I first tried the Pergoda Massage Mat it pricked my thumb when I tried to pick it up and I was almost afraid to try it and called it a bed of nails.  I had a bad backache and needed to try it so I bravely and slowly eased myself on to the mat.  It didn't feel at all prickly like it did on my thumb, just a little harsh.  After I got settled on it, it was fine and it began to feel warm, as others have said, then my back felt warm and it was very comfortable.  After using it for several days and a couple of times a week since then, my back no longer hurts, and I have had a chronic back and neck problem for years  I have only had this for about 3 or 4 weeks but my back felt better after the first week.  I plan to get the smaller travel mat to use under my neck.  A great back aid!
5	1394755200	I grew up in the Far East part of Russia, where my parents used similar mats a lot.  As a child, I found them to be too &#34;prickly,&#34; but when I got sick, my grandmother forced me to lie on it for 10-15 minutes - and according to my family, I recovered faster.I started searching for such a mat here in the US, after being diagnosed with an autoimmune condition, and looking for the ways to aid my healing. Here, however, the problem was not to find a mat, but to find an ECOLOGICALLY SAFE mat. There is a great number of mats on the market, most of them are produced in China, and I knew that the off-gassing from the materials would endanger my already compromised immune system and potentially undo the benefits that I seek to derive from the mat. After a long time of contacting manufacturers (and a couple of trips to my local &#34;green&#34; stores), I settled on Spoonk mat - because its cover is made from organic cotton and hemp, the their eco-foam is made in the US, and their spikes are from the safer version of ABC plastic.I have now had this mat for only 2 days, but am coming back to report...that my grandmother was right, when she insisted that I lie on the mat to heal. First, I am sleeping through the entire night - first time in many months. Second, I awake much more rested. Third, my blood pressure is rising (I have a problem with low blood pressure, 85/45...and it hit twice to 110/60 after the treatment).  Finally, my tai chi practice have improved tremendously. These are only the 2 days of use observations, and I know that the effects of these mats, like accupuncture itself, are cumulative.I do have to say that I did not go for 5-10 minutes &#34;get used to&#34; sessions, but started right away at 30-45 minutes duration. And yes, it still hurts a good bit for the first 5-10 minutes. But what comes after that is really worth the pain.I am so encouraged with the results of just these first treatments that I am thinking about ordering another mat for my aging mother in Russia - as a token of remembrance but also a vital tool of health. Thank you, Spoonk.
5	1394496000	I love it and feel great after using it.  Highly recommended!  I also like that it is made from natural materials.  Nice work!
3	1394409600	Didn't receive the carry bag, its hard to get off of the mat without hurting, hard to store without the bag
2	1394236800	I do not use this item.  It has sharp plastic needles sticking up.  Lying on it is not comfortable or healthy!
5	1394236800	My daughter-in-law gave me a Spoonk mat as a gift.  The best gift ever.  I suffer from sciatic pain when I vacuum and wash the floors. Follow-up housework with a Spoonk session or 2 at home and I am good to go.  Initially a bit of discomfort, but relaxation sets-in.  Shoulder stiffness, knee pain, foot pain, even the rare manicure I had from a well-meaning manicurist who gave me a hand massage that later set my on again off again arthritis pain into motion&#8230; all relieved with my Spoonk.  I believe my daughter-in-law presented the mat to me so I can continue to be active and pain free with my young grandchildren.  It works!
5	1394150400	Good product with good results!Suggest that  you use it in bed or a chair.Would buy another one again.
5	1393891200	I received this as a gift over the holidays, and I couldn't be happier!The Spoonk Mat is always out at my house. Since I've gotten it, I haven't put it back into the bag. Personally, I use it on my feet and upper back and shoulders. It creates a feeling I love that I can't get anywhere else. A great mat to relax with, to meditate on, to ease tension - for me it's a great body work tool!
5	1393891200	I absolutely love my Spoonk massage mat.  After I showed it to several of my friends, while we were traveling together, the Spoonk community increased by 5!  My shoulders are so relaxed now and I generally sleep better.I put a heating pad underneath mine and the combination of warmth and the mat are perfect.They ARE sharp so be careful when rolling it up.
5	1393891200	TRIED A FRIEND'S MAT, THEN DECIDED TO GET MY OWN. LIKE HOW IT MAKES YOU FEELRELAXING YET STIMULATING. CANNOT WAIT FOR THE TRAVEL SIZENICE TRAVEL BAG ALSO, HIGH QUALITY
5	1393891200	Okay. I was skeptical. My yoga teacher recommended the Spoonk mat because I wake up in the morning with sore, tight and stiff feet. So, now I stand on the mat every morning for a few minutes and I can feel my feet loosen and warm up. I also use the mat at night while reading in bed, and I love the way it makes my skin tingle. Falling asleep has never been better.
5	1393718400	The Spoonk mat is delightful. I bought it for my husband for Valentines day in hopes that it would help with his continuously knotted back and neck. The first time was a bit intense and I had to set a timer for five minutes to get him through it. Each time we lay on it, it becomes easier and easier. Our bodies have adjusted and we have loved the results. After a stressful day, we lie on the mat and find that our bodies relax and the spikes melt away the stress. Thank goodness for the Spoonk mat.
5	1393718400	Yep sounds really crazy.................but it really works.  My husband was a little skeptical ................but once I got him to try it he loved it. Very relaxing...................does take  a little bit to get use to .
5	1393632000	I love my spoonk mat. It's sensation is like nothing else. It does hurt a little but in a 'hurts so good' kind of way. I like bringing it to bed and laying on it while I watch a movie. I would totally recommend this mat to anyone looking to relieve back pain or just relax.
5	1393632000	I recently began using the Spoonk massage mat.  I have sensitive skin, so I used it with a thin tshirt.  I've used it several times and feel completely relaxed after a half hour on the mat.After you order you may get an email saying if you give the product a good rating within a month, you will get a smaller, travel Spoonk.  This is just a ruse to get you to give the product a good rating.  I've waited months and have received nothing.
5	1393286400	First, item construction: well built and appears to have high build quality. Acupuncture nodes are made of white plastic and are sturdy enough, fixed securely to the fabric backing.Second, user experience: my wife absolutely loves it and uses it for 15-20 minutes every night before bedtime. She says it's extremely relaxing and helps her fall asleep; it relaxes her back muscles which her massage therapists have always mentioned to be overly taut and tense.  Even if she wakes up at night and can't fall asleep, she whips this mat out for 15 minutes and it helps her relax enough to go back to sleep.When using, give your back 2-3 minutes to get used to the pain -- it gets much better than after you immediately lie on it!  That's why it's not for everyone, if you can't withstand 2-3 minutes worth of mild pain, you may not be into this pad.
3	1393286400	Bought this based on the crazy awesome reviews.  So far I have not noticed any changes or improvements in the inflammation of my joints. No increase in energy and no other benefits save for my pain threshold for spikes is higher.
4	1393113600	I originally tried acupressure mats based on the universal positive reviews. I have suffered from back pain ever since I began working at a computer. I have tried all sorts of remedies from massage to gadgets. Naturally, nothing beats a good massage, however, they are expensive so I don't get them as often as I would like. The back gadgets available do provide some relief, but they just don't give you the euphoria of a massage. These mats do! You get that hard-to-explain euphoric feeling after and during using these mats - not a massage but pretty good stuff. Keep in mind the first time I got on one of these it was painful (and I consider myself tough). Stick with it for a week and it gets much, much better - even great. The knots are much better now and I look forward to time on the Spoonk mat. If you are reading this you probably discovered there are a lot of different companies providing these mats. I tried over 2 of them including some of the cheapest and some of the more popular ones like the &#34;Heavenly&#34;. Long story short they are not made the same as the Spoonk mat. The Spoonk is many times better quality in both the spikes and the cloth cover. Most of the cloth covers were very thin. The Spoonk has a feeling of quality and you can tell this mat was made by people that care. And the shipping was incredibly quick. I ordered from Amazon to the Middle East and it took only 3 days to arrive and the price was like 50% of what I would have paid locally.
1	1392854400	I got this mat for my wife.  She has chronic pain and I thought this would help her out.  She loves it.  She uses it daily and feels that it helps her manage her pain better throughout the day.  I also have tried it and have become a believer.  I just got back from travelling for work and my feet were killing me, my wife told me to stand on the mat for 5-10 minutes.  After standing on the mat for 5 minutes I got off and my feet felt substantially better.  I would recommend this product to anyone.  I bought a second one for my dad.5/4/14 Update.  Although the mat works this company does not back up its promises.  With the shipment of the mat there was a paper that stated if you went on Amazon and offered a review, they would send you a travel size mat at no cost.  I did exactly as the paper outlined and I have never received the mat.  I have followed up with the company several times with no response.  I am very disappointed.
5	1392768000	I bought this mat based off of the reviews and I needed relief for my back pain.  My husband tried it first and gave me the play by play on how it felt so needless to say I was a bit nervous to try it.  The pain is intense for maybe the first 5 minutes until you feel warm sensations and than pure bliss.  I have used it frequently and it loosens my back.  I would recommend this product to anyone who has back pain or just needs to relax but doesn't have the money to get regular massages.
4	1392681600	I read almost all the negative reviews before I bought this because I hate to waste money.  That being said, I don't think I wasted my money.  It costs less than any kind of hands on therapy and I can use it every day.  I don't have a high pain tolerance and I don't think this thing hurts that much.  It does hurt if you accidently pick it up wrong and scratch yourself with it, but not if you are lying still.  I'm glad that I got it and we've been using it a lot.  I get it out after the kids have gone to bed. It helps me relax.
5	1392595200	Great, affordable relaxation & massage alternative. I use it nearly every night to work out the day's stress & take me to deep relaxation.
5	1392508800	Love the Spoonk! Truly a life-changing item. Almost every adult in my family now has one. I use it before massages and before bed. I actually have two! The Spoonk pillow is next on my list.
5	1392336000	I bought Spoonk acupressure mat because I have fair to moderate pain in my neck, shoulders and feet.  I have 3 children and don't have the time or extra money for a massage.  I read the reviews by Food Babe and Dr Oz and thought the Spoonk mat be be able to help.  I have been extremely pleased with the mat.  I have been using the mat daily at night for about 15 minutes and it has been beneficial in both mental and physical relief.  It has helped with my stress relief and physical tension.  I started using it wearing a tank top and a shirt but I have transitioned to using it with only one shirt.  I have sensitive skin so I started that way, although the instructions say to use with a very light shirt or with none at all.  I always feel better after I use it.  I tend to like non-traditional medicine because there is no bad side effects.  I will agree with the other reviews saying there is a little bit of a learning curve to figure out how to use it.  I have found it's best to lay down in one move and not try to wiggle around to get a good position.
5	1392076800	Yes, when you first lay on it, it kinda hurts.  All your body weight is on this thing.  But I lay there anyway.  When I get up, my back is bright red all over and my husband still doesn't get why I continue to use it.  He says it looks like I enjoy torture.  But seriously, it tingles all over for a while after you get up too.  It helps with my lower back pain and I think it puts me in a very relaxing mood as well.  I don't use it everyday and would never be able to fall asleep on it but I do like laying on it every now and then.  I use the pillow more than I do this pad/mat.
5	1391990400	I've had terrible backaches for a few years now. I went to the Dr. and took some medicines, but nothing helped. Especially when it came to period....omg....Honestly, I just wanted to cut my lower back off! I got this mat about a month ago. The first time I laid on it was a little painful, but the pain went away after 2-3 mins , then I felt super relaxed. The morning after, I woke up, and for the first time in a long long long time, my back didn't hurt anymore.
5	1391990400	I've used this a few times, seems like a niche thing.  Its def not comfy, but maybe I'm not giving it its full due.  I guess you have to get used to it, we'll see
5	1391990400	A friend of mine sent me a link to this after I told her about my back pain and I am truly grateful. I have a chronic muscle spasm from a car accident and when it flares up I am miserable. The sensation of laying on this mat is different to anything I have experienced. It almost makes you feel weightless in the area of your body that is on top of it. It provides immediate relief and is so relaxing that I fell asleep on it the first time I used it.The main reason I bought this mat over any other is because it is &#34;Made in USA&#34;. Not only do I like to support workers in this country but I also feel there is a higher standard of quality and safety in goods manufactured here. A lot of things from China have a peculiar chemical odor that I am sensitive too. This mat is very well made-the fabric is thick, the stitching is strong and there is no smell to it. I'll be buying a couple more in the coming months as birthday presents.
1	1391990400	I don't know how so many people think or say this is awesome ??? They must be selling them on Ebay after they get their free travel size... This is nothing but a gimmick... I am a Certified Massage Therapist and a LVN... I was so tired of trying to massage my back that i was willing to try ANYTHING !!! This product is a joke... I don't see how anyone could lay on this for 5 min. much less 40 min... It does nothing but PRICK your skin and subcutaneous fat ... Don't say give it a chance with a T or a week... i gave it a fair chance... NO WAY does this promote relaxation... !!! Keep up with stretching and meditation... Don't waist your money on plastic pins that make your skin SCREAM as evidenced by your blood raising to the surface of your skin in DEFENCE !!! That's all it is !!! Shame on scammers !!!
5	1391817600	Lots of warnings that it hurts a bit when you first try it, but do it anyways.  For reasons I don't fully understand, it just works.  Obviously stimulation is occurring, and presumably blood flow, and the result is relief.  The day I received is a migraine was just starting and a bit of Spoonk cut it off right then.  Thank you Spoonk!
4	1391817600	But I come off of the mat feeling better then when I first lay down.  On bare skin, it is painful, but it's the only way I've ever used it.  Definitely gets better as your tolerance grows.  It may just be distracting you from the pain, but it works without having to take a pain reliever (and is more fast acting too).
4	1391644800	I bought this mat for my girlfriend who's experiencing upper back and shoulder pain, and she loves it! Her aches are almost totally gone.
2	1391644800	It states lay on it and you will get used to it, that's a lie.  Not a single person in the entire free world could subject themselves to the pain an ddiscomfort needed to get to the point of relaxing and enjoying it.  I believe this was designed by either a torture proffesional or a very sick person who deals in misery and torment of loved ones.
5	1391558400	It is nice to lay and relax on this.  It takes some getting use to laying on it but in less than five minutes it is quite relaxing.  I enjoy using it on my feet while I am watching TV or reading -- relieves the stress of the day!  I am very happy with my purchase!
5	1391385600	I was skeptical about this product, but my friends said it was awesome and I was willing to try anything to help my wife&#8217;s chronic back pain.  So I ordered the item, it arrived promptly and I surprised my wife with it.  She tried it out, and it works.  Her Back pain has diminished and an added bonus, this thing puts you to sleep.  The first time she used it, it relaxed her so much that she fell into a deep sleep.  I had to wake her up to get it out from under her so she wouldn&#8217;t sleep on it all night.  She now uses it every night.  She is sleeping better and longer and her back is not troubling her like it used to.  I also use it about once a week when my lower back pain flares up, this thing is amazing!  The best part is no longer needing to take any ibuprofen, just get on the mat and my pain goes away.  If you are on the Fence, it&#8217;s time to climb off and buy this, it really does work.
4	1391385600	I bought this for my husband as a gift. He was skeptical at first and, after using it for 20 minutes before sleeping, he has found that he sleeps more soundly. He uses it quite often. I think this was a successful buy!
5	1391212800	My husband loves this.  He literally falls asleep on it. Even our 9 and 11 year old children like to lie on it with t-shirts on (which is how I also tried it).  I also relaxed and fell asleep on it.
5	1391212800	I had always wondered if this product actually works how it says it does. I finally ordered one and I love it! I have issues sleeping at times and after laying on this mat for about twenty minutes before bed I go to sleep right away. It does take some getting used to, but any discomfort goes away after about five minutes. My husband laughed when it first came in, but now he uses it too.
4	1390521600	Item arrived within 2 days...I'm still getting used to it but I think it's great so far!  The plastic spikes feel far worse to the touch than they feel when you lie on them...it's actually quite a nice experience providing you don't move in the time you are lying on them bare-backed...can be a little sore afterwards but overall my sleep has improved and the tension in my back is releasing with upkeep of use.  Have been recommending it to all my friends!
5	1390348800	I was looking for a back massager for my husband and stumbled upon this little guy. My husband is a blue collar guy who is on his feet all day, but refuses to treat himself to the occasional professional massage. I was really surprised that he thought it was &#34;cool&#34;, and even more surprised when he raved about how wonderful it was. And then I tried it, and all I can say is- wow. It is definitely painful/burn-y at first, but once you get through it you can actually fall asleep on it. Now we both use this thing a few times a week and have noticed reduced tension and better sleep. This thing will save us tons of money on professional massages! Love it!
5	1390262400	I was having some back pain so I decided to order one of these. After reading the reviews, I was so excited to get mine that I had it shipped to the hotel where I was staying for the week!  As most other reviewers have noted, the first 5 minutes or so that you lay on this for the first time can be uncomfortable. But after that... BLISS!  I suddenly felt completely relaxed and I could hardly keep my eyes open.  I fell asleep on it the first night and had the most restful sleep I've had in ages!  I highly recommend this to anyone who has back pain or who wants to have more restful sleep.
5	1390176000	Received item in two days, can't beat that for a free shipping. Lay on mat first time for about 20 min. or so with direct skin contact. Burning sensation first few minutes , but if you put your mind to it and want back pain relief , you can try and relax and just do it! Pain goes away fast. Very hopeful for long term results. Good luck. The quality of the mat seems to be very nice.
5	1390176000	My husband was skeptical when this showed up. &#34;You want me to lay on that? It will puncture me and I'll bleed to death.&#34; He had such a backache last night so he decided to try it. I did lay a thin blanket over it but when he laid down the bottom of it rolled up. The part with no blanket was on his lower back where the pain was. He lasted about 15 minutes but when he got up he said his back wasn't hurting as bad! He even gathered it up and took it to the bedroom in case he needed it over night. This morning his back was better than usual also! Guessing the world lost another skeptic!
5	1390089600	As a bachelor, I can't tell you how many times someone bought me one of those crappy wooden backscratchers that only pisses you off when you try to scratch your back.  With no shirt and 3 or 4 passes with the Spoonk, the job is done and oh so well.  It's like long fingernails on steroids. Get it.
5	1390003200	I bought these for my 2 adult daughters. They both love lying on them. It takes a few tries to get comfortable, but the tension in your boday dissipates as you relax on the mat.
4	1390003200	I've never done accupressure or anything like that, but saw this on a lightning deal and it looked interesting, so I read some reviews and decided to pick it up.  I don't have anything else to measure this against, but my experience is the same as most of the other reviewers... laying on this thing shirtless definitely takes some getting used to.  Personally I think the meditation required for me to get through the first few minutes is actually an asset, but I can see how many wouldn't like it.  It took a few sessions, but after using this for 15-20 minutes a day I noticed a persistent stiffness in my neck lessening, and of course there is the general feeling of relaxation after each use.  I use this at least 3-4 times a week, and am very happy with it.  The only thing that keeps it from getting a five star rating from me is that it's rather short.  I'm 6', and when I lay on this so it's on my neck, it only includes the top half of my back.  I'd like for it to be able to cover from neck to lumbar region all at once, but that's the only even remotely negative thing I can say about this.
5	1389830400	My wife surprised me with a Spoonk as a gift. She said it was suppose to help me sleep, but I was very skeptical since I didn't know how all those sharp edges were relaxing in any way. I tried it out before bed anyway just to see what would happen. Wow! I was surprised to wake up the next day feeling better rested than I have in a long time. Now I'm obsessed with my Spoonk. My wife bought another one for herself so we didn't have to share!
5	1389744000	My mom came to visit me and saw my acupressure mat. "What's this thing?!"  She tried it and loved it. She gets all sorts of body pain from an auto-immune disorder, and this provides some relief. I bought myself a second one to counteract the effects of long hours at my desk. You probably need to try it to see if you like it. We think it feels amazing and makes a noticeable difference in loosening up tight back muscles.
5	1389744000	I gave this as a Christmas gift to a couple. They both love the benefits of this mat. The husband said he felt good after using it the first time. Awesome!
5	1389744000	This was purchased as a gift for my husband.  He wanted an acupuncture appointment but I could not bring myself to enter the spa knowing it had that many needles in it. Again as the title states, I am a wimp.  His first try he wimped out too.  The initial sensations are extreme!  He tried to put a t-shirt on but that took away all sensations.  After another try, he was able to breathe through the original sensations and relax.  After several uses he was able to fall asleep from the use of the mat and he has trouble falling asleep.  The key, he says, is to relax and breathe.  After the initial sensations, according to my husband, your back will get warm and you will feel so relaxed.  I am still trying to get past the initial sensations but I have trouble relaxing.My husband loves this mat.  He uses it everyday to help him fall asleep.  So, it works and is a great product, if you are not a wimp like me.
5	1389657600	I ordered my Spoonk mat, and the day it came it was a little intimidating (I knew what I was getting myself into though), so I asked my husband to try it first - BIG MISTAKE!  He stole my Spoonk mat and claimed it as his own before I could even try it.  Thankfully they are reasonably priced, so I hopped on Amazon and bought another.  Out of the 5 days of owning it I had only gotten to use it once because of my husband hogging it the whole time.  So, today our second Spoonk arrived and we can Spoonk happily ever after :)Again, it may be intimidating - but I can assure you it is an awesome tool for relaxation!  &#60;3 my Spoonk :)
5	1389657600	I purchased this on a lighting deal.  The price was right and I was very curious.  This is a phenomenal product.  Both my husband and I agree.  It helps you sleep better, clears your sinuses, gives you energy and a revitalized feeling.  When I lay on this mat for a period of time it feels like i have had a nice long relaxing massage.  You do have to go slow in the beginning.  try wearing a T-shirt.  Enjoy all the kharma this brings to you.  it was wonderful for us..  may have to buy another so we do not have to share. This is heaven&#8230; (when you get over laying on spikes)
5	1389571200	I was in a car accident 6yrs ago and I now I suffer from periodic back pain even after months of physical therapy.  I bought this after reading many reviews.  Once I got past the first 5 minutes (which was uncomfortable in certain areas of my back) my entire body relaxed and I literally felt the tension melt away.  The first time I used this, I stayed on the mat for 20 minutes and once I got up, the pain was gone.  I realize now that the parts of my back that were uncomfortable were the parts that held the tension...obviously!  I really didn't expect that!  I'm a believer in this product and I'm so happy I purchased it!
5	1389312000	I will start my review with the "pain" aspect of using this awesome mat.Some people think this really hurts. It doesn't at all. However I think it depends on your -- body type. Mind you I've only used this mat on my bed (shirt off) so I cannot attest to how it feels when you use it on the floor. BUT what most people seem to have pain with this mat is standing on it. I stood on it for 10+ minutes the very first time using it on my feet. No socks. I tried it with socks at first as it suggested. Using socks didn't give me enough pressure so I took them off. Standing on it doesn't hurt at all, unless you lean forward and it pushes tons of pressure on the tips of your toes!The only pain you will feel (if you are a fit individual [I'm speculating]) is AFTER using it. After you stand on the mat your feet will be tender. It'll feel as if a butcher tenderized your poor ole feets. So I recommend using it by the bed or a chair if you plan on standing on it. So you can sit down immediately afterwards. After I stood on it the first time I stepped off it onto hardwood flooring and that hurt like... Also, after laying on it (for 40+ minutes) when you situp your back is ON FIRE... luckily this sensation only lasts a good minute if that. I would recommend not walking for a minute after standing on it. When you lay on it I recommend that you don't put your shirt on for a minute and don't lean your back against anything or lay down.This mat worked the first time I used it. Back pain gone! Foot pain gone! I've suffered from upper back pain for years. It's in the scapula area. Both sides. It use to only be in my left side. Now its both. The pain is weird it's a flare up type of pain... kind of like plantar fasciitis, which I suffer from and I have fibromyalgia and RA....This mat has "fixed" my feet and my back!If you suffer from feet pain and back pain give it chance, it worked for me.TMI - this mat made me crazy horny (only when I lay on it) ... I wonder if it's a blood flow thing or the chemicals your body produces from using this product?I will update this review after I lay on it on the floor,... and I'm curious if my pain will always be gone if use this product... I have high hopes for it :)Update: 1/12/2014I used the Spoonk today on the floor. To my surprise I found it easier to use on hardwood floor than my bed. By easier I mean it worked better and faster, and it was easier to put pressure where I wanted it. However it's more convenient to use in your comfy bed. It's difficult to watch TV while using the Spoonk because it makes you so relaxed it's difficult to keep your eyes open at times. I wanna try using the Spoonk with an eye mask on and ear plugs in too really zone out and wash away the daily stress. Or an eye mask and some headphones with some relaxing music and some lavender oil...The sleeping aspect of the Spoonk takes time. At least it did for me anyhow. If you plan on buying this for a sleep aide give it at least a week it's worth the time invested and If you do find the Spoonk painful don't give up, it gets easier with each use.My feet and back have been pain free since the first use thanks for a quality product :)Oh yea and one last thing I'd like to say about the Spoonk is since using this product I've had a better sense of well being, I'm calmer and happier. My life is easier now that I have this. Sounds cheesy but it's the truth. Not only is it relaxing but it really does something on a spiritual level... I'm not sure what exactly... but it basically balances your chakras. Regardless if you believe in all of that :PUPDATE: 1/17/2014I didn't stand on it yesterday and today my foot hurt.. this thing really does work (if used everyday) and I'm gonna make sure I don't neglect it. Tonight I stood on it for 50 minutes straight. That was intense. Also tonight I found out that laying on my side+post-delt+tricep on the mat for 30 seconds each side is pleasant.... however I'd have to say using the mat in this manner is for whatever reason is the most sensitive way to use at least for me. I like to stand on it for 10 minutes, then lay on it on my stomach 10 minutes, then each side for 30 seconds and lastly my back for 20 minutes. I don't recommend anyone trying to stand on this mat for 50 minutes... Oh yea my foot that hurt, doesn't hurt at all after using the spoonk, thanks Spoonk!
5	1389225600	Didn't know what to expect when I ordered this product and I was a bit nervous about trying it (afraid it might hurt my skin).  However, it was quite comfortable and I enjoy using it on a regular basis.
5	1389225600	I got this mat based on the reviews for it and I am so glad I did! I teach Pilates 6 days a week and hit the gym 2-4x/week and run 1-2x /week, so something is always sore...not anymore. It works and my quality of sleep is a lot better and my muscles seem to recover better. I have actually started lifting heavier weights to get faster results because I am just not as sore anymore. Maybe it is the better sleep that helps my muscles...it just works! I do not think you will regret this purchase. I tell my clients about it. They like it too!
1	1389139200	It has nothing pro or con  the item I myself have not been diligent in using to give a proper rating. It's another item I think is great and purchase and it sits there. That's my downfall as I think is many others.Sorry !!
5	1389052800	I first started using this about 2 years ago, and I am so grateful for it! Anytime I have too much stress in my life, I take a 20 minute time-out and rest on my mat.I sit a lot for work, and I use this on my chair, as well. It does not damage my pants, and I get some bonus circulation as a result. It doesn't take the place of a full workout, but it certainly makes it easier to sit for longer periods.When I rest on this, I generally use it against my bare skin. The first time, I was very sensitive to it, but almost immediately, pain switched to a tingly sensation, followed by relaxation. You can feel it stimulating your circulation! I find 20 minutes gives me the best results, although even 5 minutes has helped with tension. I have also fallen asleep on it, and find that when I use it, my sleep is more restful.One warning - do not use this on bare skin right after a shower or time in a sauna. When your pores are wide open, the pins are able to press in deeply, and will leave dimples for a couple of days; it can also be painful. If you do use this when your pores are open, I recommend laying a thin cloth down (such as a t-shirt or thin sheet) in between you and the mat.After 2 years, with sitting on the mat, the pins are finally starting to dull, but not enough that the mat has lost any effectiveness.Also, the people at the company are very friendly and are happy to answer many questions!
5	1388966400	My wife wanted this and I was thinking it would be a gimmick of some sort but we've both tried it and it actually makes your back feel good after use. My wife uses it daily now and loves it.
5	1388793600	I love this mat. It isn't for those with extremely sensitive skin, but if you can hack it, then you'll reap the benefits. I lie on this mat every night before bed for 10 minutes. It relaxes me (and my muscles).
5	1388707200	I was a  bit hesitant due to all the 5 star reviews, but I admit I love my Spoonk! It was indeed painful the first few minutes of each session I used it until I got used to it. My advice - count to 300 and the pain will turn into a wonderful heat that will relax you and make it hard not to want to drift off to sleep! I have used it quite a few times now, and have noticed tghe benefits already. Amazing what a little mat with spikes can do for your back and stress level. Thanks Spoonk!
5	1388707200	I read a lot of the prior reviews but still wasn't sure what to expect from this &#34;device&#34;. I figured the only way to know was to try it out. As others have said, there is considerable discomfort when first lying down but that soon passes and is replaced by an overall warmth. I've fallen asleep several times within minutes while on this mat. I usually wake up in about 30 minutes and then have no trouble going back to sleep after removing the mat and lying down again. Oh, getting up off of the mat can also be quite &#34;stimulating&#34;! I don't mind this at all as the sensation quickly dissipates after removal. I'm going to keep this and continue using it. For those on the fence, give it a fair try. If it doesn't work for you, it can always be returned or passed on to someone else that you care about
5	1388707200	The Spoonk mat relieves pain and relaxes my body and mind.  I have had surgery for a ruptured disc in my lower back, and I've also dealt with shoulder and neck pain.  The mat helps all of these.  Even if you don't have physical pain, I would still recommend using the mat for the mental benefits.  It releases endorphins (which are stronger than morphine) and oxytocin (which is known as the &#34;love hormone&#34; and is a powerful mood enhancer).  The mat costs less than one massage or acupuncture session and can be used any time for the rest of your life.  It even comes with a money back guarantee.  This is one of the best purchases I've ever made.
5	1388707200	This is a God send for people who can't make it to a yoga class.  I've bought two as gifts for friends who are equally pleased.  It hurts just a bit if you lie on it with a bare back, but after a few minutes it feels awesome
5	1388707200	My daughter and I use this often. So often that my daughter bought her own when she moved out! It helps with tension and stress!
5	1388620800	Bought it as a gift for my mom, but before I gave it to her my boyfriend tried it out. I ended up buying one just for him. Mom loves hers too, and they both have found it helps immensely with their back pain. I fell asleep on top of his one night and slept more deeply than I have in months. Love it.
1	1388534400	I bought it and loved it.  Then after about a week, the prongs were no longer nearly as sharp as they were.  It doesn't work nearly as well as when I first got it.  I thought I had 30 days to return it, but Amazon won't let me do a return even though I received it on December 4th and today is January 1st.  And before anyone asks, I did not misuse it.  I used it on my bare back for about 30 minutes at a time.  The plastic prongs are just weak and don't last.
5	1388534400	I bought two of these mats for Christmas gifts. One for my father who has suffered all kinds of back problems for decades. One for my husband who has had back problems since he got out of the NAVY and on top of that has sleep problems.I was unsure upon purchasing if either of them would like or even use these as I have heard it can be difficult to get past the initial pain of laying on the mat.More than a week later and my father has not gone a day without laying on his mat and my husband and I are both using his every evening as well.My father loves his so much he is using "spoonk" as a verb and says he wants a bumper sticker that says "Have you spoonked today?" I am very impressed in the changes I have seen in my overall pain that I have had in my hips since having my son.A month ago I had never even heard of this product now I swear by it.My Chiropractor is going to be very disappointed!!
5	1388361600	I was hesitant to use it at first because it seemed like it would hurt (and it did in the beginning) but after the first couple of minutes it starts to feel good and then you barely even realize it is there. My back and neck felt good after the first couple of times i used it. So far i really like it, we will see if it improves my sleep/energy over time.
5	1388361600	Using the Spoonk mat for 10 minutes first thing in the morning is a great way to start the day!  I feel energized and ready to go.
5	1388275200	I'll admit, I was skeptical when I first heard about this product from a friend.  Now, I'm not sure how I lived without it.  I have very sensitive skin, so it took me a long time to get used to the pressure points.  I actually thought about returning it after the first week, but I read on other reviews to keep trying it, so I did.  I'm glad I stuck with it.  The pressure points don't bother me at all anymore.  I work long days in a hospital, and on days when I come home with lower back pain, this thing takes care of it.  The effect is very much like that of a massage.  Very glad I made this purchase!
5	1388188800	I just received the massage mat and it does take getting used to.  You lay down and have an uneven surface protruding into your back.  But as you lay there, it conforms and then you don't notice it. The aches and discomforts melt away. I have insomnia and am hoping for continued success.
5	1388188800	i carefully laid the prickly mat in the middle of my living room.  with a thin cotton shirt on, i laid my back on the mat and let myself sink into the landscape of mini-spikes.  the multi-pinpoint sensations radiating through my skin and muscles were not overwhelming--it was rather stimulating!  as minutes melted away, i felt good, felt more relaxed, felt righteous about this purchase (it's a great price!).  i also tried standing on the mat barefoot and it felt great!i recommend this product to anyone who craves relaxation. for maximum relaxation, at least 20-30+ minutes daily are recommended, but i'm sure 5-15 minutes will still set your bones at ease.  this is definitely a wonderful, natural way to relieve stress, enhance sleep, increase a sense of inner peace, and treat yourself (or someone else) to some quiet, easy relaxation!
4	1388188800	I purchased this mat for my arthritic dog (Shih-Tzu) and special needs pet (Golden Retriever). They both enjoy laying on it while I massage their limbs. I usually let each lay down on it for 15 minutes. While the verdict is still out on its effectiveness in the treatment of their muscles, I can say that each relaxes while on the mat.
5	1388188800	Having read the reviews, I expected the experience to be painful for the first 5 minutes. I am a pain-wimp. It was a relief to find it was not as bad as I had prepared for.  It was my own Christmas present and I've used it to ease the neck stress and back strain of Christmas.  Much less expensive than a massage and faster. I have used it 4 times.  (once before Christmas and daily since Christmas.)  I see the travel size is out of stock, I'd like to get that to do my neck at the same time I do my full back.  (Tried to buy this full-size mat on the Deals price, but it sold out.  It was worth the thirty bucks that it lists for regularly!)
5	1387929600	I got in to a rather bad accident about 3 years ago, although x-rays showed no &#34;real&#34; damage i have been experiencing pains and incredible discomfort. For awhile i just tried to stick it out, but i realized that something had to be done. I started exercising my core to take tension off my lower back, but that only reduced pain slightly. I saw the acupressure mat at a store selling mexican themed items, i decided to give it a try. I brought it home and tried it out. I just flopped on the thing, and i felt what i first i thought was incredible pain. I felt like rolling off, but i decided to stick it out, after all i am used to content pain. After 5 minute the pain went to a relaxing throbs, i can't really decide if i was in pain or not. After 40 minutes i felt that nothing was really done, but when i got up and went to work i had noticed that my lower back was not in pain. The next morning the pain started come back. For the last 3 months i do 30 minute morning sessions of the mat and i go through a 8-12 hour work day pain free. The price of the mat seemed off-putting at first, but its well worth every penny.
5	1387929600	I have been having the worst time sleeping for months due to PTSD and related nightmares. While this mat may seem like an unconventional approach, it has single-handedly turned things around for me. The very first night I used it for a 40 minute session. It is not exactly comfortable at first, but it almost feels "good" in a "this is helping me, no pain no gain" kinda way. I felt warm and tingly and so, so relaxed. Then, when I put it away and tried to sleep I felt wired, almost like I'd had too much coffee. I didn't use it for a few nights and then tried again for 30 minutes instead. I fell asleep easily after the session and slept GREAT. I had very unusual, vivid dreams, but they were pleasant, fun, and not at all trauma related. The second night - same thing. The third - same thing again. While it may be too soon to tell, the past few nights have been a welcome reprieve from my head and I can only hope this trend keeps up!
5	1387238400	Seriously... I have written this review thousands of times in my head.  I stumbled across this on Amazon while looking for a hand massager thingy and based on the reviews that said that it helped people get better sleep and the great price with Prime-- I went for it.  Seriously, thank you SPOONK for making this mat!! I had NEVER, EVER HEARD of this bed of nails before or what it was all about, but it has changed my life.  I have had it for 5 months now and I take it everywhere I travel and use it every single night before bed.  It is magic.I am 27 years old and a terrible sleeper and always have been. I have a 16 month old child that is passed out in what appears to be the most wonderful dreamland from 7pm-7am straight and a husband who snores next to me all night long like a log.  I toss and turn, my brain doesn't shut off or it stays in a constant half state of dreaming or I am waking up every hour on the hour.  I have seriously tried everything they tell you to do, no screen time, teas, stretching, yoga etc (minus the drugs obv).  Nothing works.Reading the many many reviews on here helped me with my night time Spoonk routine:I get ready for bed brush my teeth and I am sure to finish up all texts, magazines or books I want to read, convos w my husband etc first.  Then, in my bed I lay down with bare skin on the mat, making sure my head is comfy on my pillow and i leave my t-shirt or tank around my neck.  I check my clock for time and pull up my covers so I am warm.  (My husband knows to be quiet if he is reading or on his phone.)  I try to breathe and be as zen as possible. I have noticed if I am fired up about something or need to do something I do not relax on the mat.  Seriously within MINUTES i am out like a LIGHT!!! I do not set an alarm, I just allow myself to wake up naturally.  When I do wake, I try to slowly look over at the time or quietly ask my husband the time to see if I have been on the mat for at least 30 minutes.  I count the 30 minutes of spoonk time as &#34;going to bed&#34; because I am asleep on it EVERY TIME. If I have been on it 30 minutes, I sit up, throw the mat onto the floor next to me, put on my shirt from my neck (no searching around if its dark)and slowly lay down as to keep the deep state of relaxation my body has fell into going.  I usually easily fall asleep after that.  I used to wake up every single hour or every couple hours and then toss and turn.  Now I swear I wake maybe once, maybe twice sometimes not at ALL!!! if I do wake I easily fall back asleep and in the time I was asleep I do not recall restless fitful anxiety ridden dreams!Every night is NOT perfect.  Even though I consistently use the mat, it is true some nights are better than others.  Obviously life situations, work, or even hormones can come into play for a restful night sleep, but all i know is when i went without it one night... it was terrible!! Any night with the spoonk mat is better than a night with no spoonk mat! I seriously dont know what the science is behind it but it works.  I now know the experiece so well that after a few minutes I can feel the &#34;feeling&#34; of blood circulating and pulsing through my body from head to toe and I am  gone without a second thought.I literally have gotten 9 friends to buy this mat and they ALL love it and agree.  The first maybe 3 times i really had to do some deep breathing through the &#34;pain&#34; of laying directly on these plastic points but now I am so used to it.  Sometimes it is not painful at all.  I do notice that if I am not ready and calm it hurts more.seriously, buy this now.  Buy two.
1	1386979200	despite what they said on Dr Oz, this expensive piece of equipment does not work. suggest you save your money.
2	1386806400	I was really looking forward to using this, however I really don't find any benefit to it.  It feels kind of good when you lay on it, but once you get off you realize nothing changes.
5	1386720000	Just got this in yesterday, and I initially bought it for my husband who has a herniated disc, along with the tired muscles too considering his job field. He made me the guinea pig, and I did as the directions recommended. I lifted my shirt and had the spikes pressed against my back. It was a bit painful at first, but I closed my eyes and really let the acupressure mat do it's job. Needless to say, I felt relaxation, and my back pain ceased as well. I could take a nap on that thing.
5	1386547200	I love spoonk and the color of these mats are amazing. It was present for my mother and she loves them.
5	1386374400	Great relieve for sore, tight back muscles. It will be uncomfortable in the beginning for about 2 to 3 minutes maybe, then it'll go away, and you'll feel heat, and relaxation an almost euphoric like state (i'm thinking it's the endorphins that are kicking in to block the pain, after all you are somewhat laying on pretty sharp plastic spikes  :)  ).  I would suggest to lay it on the mattress first, then progress to harder surface like floor.
4	1385683200	This mat is the only thing that helps relieve my sciatica when it gets really bad. I saw a similar mat advertised specifically for sciatica called the PorcuPad which was over a hundred dollars, and looked to have less spikes than this one, so it was a no brainer to try this. When my flareups are at their worst, the sciatica isn't completely relieved, but helps quite a bit when nothing else I have tried does. That alone gets it four stars.However, all the relief it gives is temporary and seems to be more of a distraction than actually healing any underlying issues, like the PorcuPad was claiming to do. The second I get off the mat, the pain comes back. In addition, the stimulation is very intense and I can't just lay on it for hours - although that's not to say it's always uncomfortable, I have fallen asleep on it. But it's certainly something you might have to get used to.This is an essential part of my pain relief routine when things get out of hand. I will probably buy a travel version for when I go on vacation to ease any flare ups.
2	1385510400	I have had this mat for quite a while and thought it would help relieve tension in my back and neck.  There are many positive reviews on this and other similar mats.  However, it did nothing for me.
5	1384646400	When my legs are tired from running around all day, I slip this on top of a pillow and let my legs rest upon it for awhile.  It makes your legs tingle like you're getting a massage.  The points are very sharp so you have to store and handle it carefully.  Be careful around kids and pets with this.  The sharp plastic points stimulate your blood to flow to the cause of your pain and relieve it.  It displaces your pain.
5	1384646400	I was very skeptical.  I've purchased quite a few things to help with back pain that had varying degrees of success in the past.  This time, I had a pain deep in the middle of my back that wouldn't go away.  I initially had pains radiating up thru my shoulders and arms that caused numbness in my hands, so I went to my doctor, and she gave me 400 mg of ibuprofen to use and prescribed a muscle relaxer that I use at night.  This helped with the shoulder and arms, but did not get rid of that growing knot in my back.  It gets unbearable during the day and my heating pad and massager weren't helping.I decided to give this a try.  I love it!  My muscles feel so much relief.  I still feel some tightness deep in the middle of my back, but nothing like I did before, and I'm hoping more uses will get rid of it completely.I used a regular shirt first, and I liked it, but I wanted more pressure, so I switched to a light t-shirt.  After a few minutes, I had no trouble laying on it and could feel my muscles relaxing.  I can't believe how much better it feels already.  I could almost cry at finally feeling it loosen up.  I'm going to try it without a shirt next, but I'm very excited that this actually works and feels so good to my back and neck.I'm disappointed they don't offer the free travel version anymore.  I'd have loved to let my sister and niece try this as they have bouts of neck pain, and I'm thinking this may help them too.  I'll let them try this though when I see them next.  I don't understand the big issue with offering a free mat if you write a review where you like the product.  If I didn't like it, why in the world would I write a review to get a free one?  Regardless, I'm very happy with this product.  For the pain I was having, it is a godsend.
5	1384646400	After researching the numerous acupressure mats on Amazon and other sites, I decided to go with Spoonk based on the reviews of the product and the company.  Despite the cost difference, I definitely think I made the right decision.  This is well-made and has held up well.  If you haven't tried one of these, they take some getting used to.  Even after months of having one, I still have to wear a thin T-shirt or use a thin cover on it if I'm lying on it (if I'm sitting in a chair leaning back on it, I can use it bare-skinned).  I have fallen asleep on this on more than one occasion because it has gotten me so relaxed.  Don't be dissuaded by those reviewers who say that you don't get any benefits with this if you have to use a thin T-shirt.  If that's what it takes for you to use this and enjoy it, then doing that beats not getting the benefits at all.  I would definitely recommend this for both first-time acupressure mat users and those who've been using another (cheaper) brand.
5	1383523200	This acupressure mat is great for lowering pain and stress. I don't like taking medication for pain because of side effects and this is the perfect solution for that!
5	1383350400	This product is great!  It really does work.  It helps with getting my whole back to relax, and is easier than trying to get my husband to give me a massage.  Cheaper than paying for a massage too.  A little weird at first, but then very relaxing.  It makes your whole back feel warm and soothed.  I can almost fall asleep on it!
4	1383264000	My lower back started hurting and I wanted to get a hot pad and I saw this item and all the glowing reviews.I always regarded acupressure and acupuncture as new-age nonsense but I tried this out and there really is something to it.How nice to feel the pain just melt away. How and why it works, I don't know, but it does.The relief, though, is temporary. When off the mat, I didn't continue to feel good. Also, it takes some moving around to position yourself where it works best. Don't think you can just flop down upon this thing to feel better. Some work is involved.
4	1383004800	I was sure I had ordered the full size Spoonk mat with the accompanying travel mat.  But when it arrived there was no travel size mat.  I was very disappointed, because I would have gladly paid the extra $3 for both.  I guess I will pay closer attn. next time......but I thought I did.
5	1382832000	As many people have stated when you first lay on the mat it feels very sharp and almost unbearable. Even after using it off and on for several months that first time still takes some deep breaths to get through, but unlike the very first time I now know what to expect and I know it is worth it! I began using the mat to help with overall relaxation for sleeping. I also use it for occasional lower back pain. I strongly recommend this product for either use! Start off slow and give it time and you will get used to the &#34;sharpness&#34;.
5	1382745600	It may seem crazy that a mat with a bunch of spears sticking out of it could actually make your back feel Better, but it actually does!  Both my boyfriend and I have had amazing results with this mat.  One day I carried a futon mattress by myself up 2 flights of stairs and after that my back was definitely killing me.  This was the only thing that made it better ;)
4	1382745600	Read reviews that people love it, so I tried it.  I like it a lot!  I started with a thin layer of clothing (like a thin tee shirt), but now I go skin-on-mat.  At first, I thought people must be absolutely crazy saying they fall asleep on it.  But yes, it's possible and a good thing!  My body feels warm, relaxed and I don't need that $50 massage anymore.  This does the trick.  Stick with it.  You'll grow accustomed to it and really love it.
5	1381968000	I bought this mat for my son's coach. He likes a lot and told me it helps him to reduce the pains.
1	1381881600	Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag. The spikes on this mat are brutal!!! I would return it but threw away the package information. Is there any way I can still return it? I have not used it. Just opened it, felt the spikes and said, no way!!!
2	1381795200	It is a little bit painful but I do not care, I can lay down between 20 to an hour but I do not feel relax and I did not get any beneficial effects.  My boyfriend tried as well: for him it is just painful. I am too lazy to send it back, otherwise I would do it
5	1381622400	I was a little apprehensive at first, but it is truly a great way to relax. In just a few minutes to helps to ease stress and tense muscles.
5	1381276800	Cool product. I am sure it is best to read the directions but I didn't and used it wrong at first and it still felt good. (I used it all night to start.) Now I am going to go back and use it correctly so I can fully benefit from this unusual and suprising product.
5	1381190400	i have suffered with back pain for 8 years.  simply put, sitting at any kind of a chair is a miserable experience for me.  until now, i had to use an ice pack every day - every single hour of my work day just so i could deal with the pain of sitting upright.  so what i did was cut this about in half (actually about in 1/3rd) and i slide it under my work shirt (on my back) and amazingly enough, there is no pain.  well, let me amend that, it is a different kind of pain - those little prickly things hurt but after a while you get used to it.  i am sure there are a lot of theories on why this works - but it does.  a very decent tool to keep me functioning.  i will write an addendum if this has any longer term therapeutic benefits.
5	1381104000	Yes it's almost painful. At first. But then it is simultaneously stimulating, relaxing and revitalizing. The Spoonk Mat has impressed me!
5	1381017600	Relaxing to use before bed; I lie on it while I read.  It also wakes up my feet and face in the morning.
5	1380672000	I Highly recommend this product to release tension in back and shoulders! A bit painful at first but you can begin by using a thin tank top and work your way up to bare back.
5	1380153600	I sent this to my daughter for her birthday, hoping it might help with her ongoing back problems.  I thought she would be quite skeptical about using it, but she tried it the night of her birthday, and was so surprised.  She said she had the best sleep she'd had in a long long time.  She continues to use it most days, and it has really improved her life.  More sleep, less back pain.  I am so grateful to have found something to help her!  Now, I'm going to get one for myself!
5	1379635200	I was very skeptical about this thing.  Someone else recommended it to me but it seemed too &#34;voo doo&#34; for my taste.  I don't sleep very long so thought I'd give it a try.  It was VERY painful to lay on for about 4 minutes.  Once you adjusted, however, it wasn't so bad after all.  I even fell asleep on it for about 20 minutes.  I slept better the very first nite, and again the second nite.  I bet I only woke up twice, but not for very long, and not long enough to even look at the clock (usually I'm awake about every 90 minutes, thinking the day has started).  I'll be recommending this painful little goodie for anyone who has trouble falling asleep or staying asleep.  I don't understand the dynamics of it, but if I think it works, it must work.  I'm leaving town this weekend, and may stuff this in it's little bag and bring it along.
5	1379462400	great for energy and relaxation. I feel it has helped my muscle spasms a lot. May take a few times to get use to it but keep going.
5	1378944000	I love this mat! In fact, I may have to purchase another for my husband since he is constantly trying to steal this from me, or I have to hear him constanly asking me how much longer until I am done using it. I have a herniated disc in my lower back and I like to wake up about 30 min. early to lay on this before I start my day and it makes it so much easier to get going. I throw this onto the couch and lay on it when watching a movie, before bed. I just am a huge fan of the way I feel afterwards. I may have a high pain tolerance because it did not bother me the first time I got on the mat, but my husband was wincing from the needles and it took him about 5 minutes to adjust. I let my brother-in-law try this out since he suffers from back pain and now my sister wants to buy him one as well.I plan to travel later in the year during the holidays and I am glad this came with a convenient bag for travel because I am not leaving without this
5	1378857600	don't understand how it works but it does.  You do get used to it.  Using it with Trigger Point Therapy workbook and swimming with great results.
5	1378771200	After reading the benefits of the Spoonk- and I was skeptical- I confirm it is the next best thing to having your own personal massage therapist. Loved it so much I ordered it for my son who has a history of  a bad back due to sports injuries. He uses it every day.My ONLY COMPLAINT is that in BOTH shipments we did not get the described item carry-bag OR the instructions booklet. I had to ship mine back to receive the missing items. So imagine my frustration when the EXACT NEGLIGENCE happened to my son's order too- NO CARRY BAG. Shipper needs to be responsible and competent. This is very uncommon with Amazon orders. So... potential Amazon buyers- be aware and watch for a missing carry bag and direction booklet- and hold the shipper responsible. This Spoonk website describes the item-with videos-[...]
5	1378425600	First let me start off by saying, I have compulsive sleep late habit. It messes up my biological clock so bad that I want to do something about it. When I was browsing on Amazon I came across on this matt and saw amazing reviews for it so I decided why not give it a try. Hey I'm glad I did even though it did not fix my problem of insomnia 100% but I get good result every time I use it. For me first time using it was a little painful, but bearable. After the first few times laying on it before bedtime, I fell asleep on it within 10 min., then after that I slept so deeply as if I took sleeping pills. I was amazed by the results. It is definitely worth trying if you have bad sleeping habit like me. It really helps with lower back pain as well, in my opinion. ;)
5	1378080000	I bought this mat from Amazon about a year ago--and I definitely haven't regretted it! As all of the other reviewers have said, it does initially take some getting used to...but after you start using it on a weekly (or even daily) basis, you find out just how wonderful this mat really is. :) It's helped my sore muscles relax, relieved my back pain, and helped me get to sleep so often, I can't imagine life without it!
5	1377302400	I happened upon your product when I was searching for something to help with my back problem.  I always research a product before I buy it, so I was very intrigued with the amount of 5 star reviews I saw.  I decided to take the plunge and I ordered the spoonk mat.  Once I received it I tried it out immediately.  I read other reviewers statements about it being painful for the first couple of minutes, but I said that's no biggie, I can do that.  Let me tell you, I layed down the mat on the floor and hopped right on with no shirt.  That was really painful, but then I felt the warmth course through my back and then the after effect was great.  I then decided to try the mat on my bed and let me tell you, what a difference.  There was practically no pain and I am really enjoying it.  So, for all you newbies to the spoonk mat.  Try the mat out on a bed first....unless you want to suffer for a while.  I haven't slept this well in a while and my back fells so much better.  I am thankful for finding this little mat :)
5	1377216000	On a recommendation from a friend, I bought the Spoonk to relieve tension in my back and neck.  It works fantastic.  After lying on the mat I feel refreshed and energized.  Love the magenta color too!
5	1377129600	The Spoonk acupressure mat arrived today. Housemate opened the package (per my request), tried out the pad, and found it immediately shifted anxiety and stress level she was feeling from &#34;significant&#34; to &#34;gone!&#34;I set a timer and relaxed on the mat for 10 minutes per accompanying instructions. Upon laying down on the pad, I immediately felt a warmth in my back. Prickly sensation dissipated within a couple minutes. Looks like I'll order a second mat to keep at my boyfriend's house...and perhaps another for my current housemate so I can get my Spoonk mat back!Initial reaction - recommendation to purchase for anxiety and stress release.
2	1377129600	I know, you've read a million good reviews and then you see the dreaded one that goes against the mold. I was excited to buy this based on the reviews, but it has done nothing for me. It is so overhyped. No doubt there is some pain/discomfort in the beginning, and the benefits or lack there of is not worth it.
3	1377043200	It helps if you use it once a while but if you use contiuously then you will get more pain. Also, I hope if they had made little different for neck which you could wrap around the neck while lying on the back then it will be good becaue you can not use it on neck. I wish i could have received the carry bag or travel bag so i could really use it on business trip.
5	1376956800	when I opened it, and saw it was really sharp and it was hard matterial, I was like no way I go on this...it is dangerous ! but I did with caution and I had my cloth on and it felt so good ! then I took all my shirt off and it still feels so good .I was surprised how great it is.
5	1376870400	A co-worker recommended I try one of these mats.  I honestly haven't used it in a while since my back hasn't flared up recently.  When it does, this has been my go-to form of relief.  It takes a couple sessions to really see results when you first use it.
5	1376784000	This product really works which is amazing! Yes, lying on this mat hurts, but when you get up and your back/neck pain is relieved, it makes it totally worth it.
5	1376784000	VERY pleased with this mat. I sleep better than I have been able to in years, although it took me a couple uses before I saw the full improvement. Feels great on my back and I stand on it first thing in the morning to wake myself up and get the blood flow pumping throughout my body. I will definitely be buying this mat for all of my friends! Only wish I could have found it sooner.
5	1376697600	It helped relieved my back pain and help me sleep better. I can recommend it to any pother person having back problems or waking up in the middle of the night or early morning hours.
4	1376092800	The reviews are a bit deceitful. I expected this to help heal my back in many ways.Instead I got pain, then I got a nice heat sensation on my back. It helped my muscles relax, helped me sleep some. But even temporarily many nights it wouldn't really remove the pain, it would just help a bit.Not enough to be a super 5 star super healing product like everyone says. Good, helps some, helps generate blood flow and heat, but certainly isn't the savior to your back problems, at least it wasn't to mine.
5	1376006400	My first experience with an acupressure mat.I lie on it in bed before going to sleep, usually when my back is sore, I feel like I have a knot, or when I'm not sleepy but have to fall asleep. After about 10 or more minutes, my back is warm to hot and I start to feel sleepy. 15-20 minutes and I've almost fallen asleep. It doesn't help with knots but it does help with soreness and with insomnia. Overall I like this mat and I'm happy I bought it.
5	1376006400	I have tried massage, chiropractic, pills, etc. fir the pain in my neck due to an auto accident. It is possible to fall asleep on this mat; but I counsel against it as the sensation lasts a while afterward. I am a light sleeper so this affects me. I would recommend this to anyone with chronic pain which persists despite conventional treatment. My neck pain is greatly reduced since using this product. You MUST use it regularly for a couple weeks before noticing marked improvement.
5	1375747200	this is amazing for neck and back pain ,and just for taking a nap ,it puts me to sleep ,all my family members love it , the first few minutes  are painfull ,but about 5 min later you just feels so relax,warm feeling ,I love it!
5	1375488000	I purchased this because I was starting to have upper back pain and I thought for the price what did I have to lose.  Well it's amazing.  I lay on it for 30 to 40 minutes prior to going to sleep at night and have seen a big improvement in my upper back.  Sometimes I will fall asleep on it and awaken a couple of hours later.  If I have a headache I roll it up and lay with it under my neck and the base of my scull and in no time my headache is gone.  At first it was hard to lay on without a shirt on, but now it's about 30 seconds and I don't even feel it.  I saw in some reviews that people were disturbed over people getting a free travel mat for writing a good review.  If it wasn't working why would they want another mat.  I plan to buy the travel size so I can do my neck and back at the same time.  I have now bought a mat for my daughter and my sister.
5	1375228800	I'm going to break this to you gently: your first time will be painful. I started through thin clothes, but doing this somehow displaced the spikes in a way that was neither helpful, nor comfortable. I took a deep breath and removed my top. I thought that would be a good place to start. I lay down on it, well...bare-back. Ow! Oh, uh,...OW!! But then, after about five minutes I felt a warmth coursing through. The pain was no longer pain, it became...something else. I drifted off, and I actually stayed on for about 40 minutes (this was the second time). I use it for my back, and I've also used it for my hip. I've tried standing on it, but that is very painful and I've only been able to stay on for about 40 seconds. I'll keep trying. Bottom line is this product is great. I highly recommend it for back issues, hip/sciatica issues, and even foot pain. How could something so evil feel so good???
2	1374883200	Used this product a few times - at first it hurts then it gets where it is bearable but no real relaxing results or benefits.
4	1374364800	I like it as it helps relax me totally.  I definitely would recommend it.  I have not fallen asleep as others have but I think with continued use I could.
5	1374364800	I have been using my mat since it arrived!  I love it, and I only regret not buying it sooner.  I felt immediate relaxation the first time I used it.  I can see that the more I use the mat, the better I will feel over time.  I suffer from lower back pain and I've found immediate relief by using the mat.  I do believe with continued use my back pain will totally subside.  I place the mat on my bed and relax until I almost fall asleep.  I'm so happy I purchased it.  I've recommended the mat to my mother and a co-worker!
5	1373673600	I got this for my husband for Valentines Day and he laughed when he opened my gift.  I had him read all the reviews and info from Spoonk and he was anxious to give it a try.  The first time on it he said &#34;What are you trying to do to me?&#34; but he just kept at it.  He suffers from lots of aches and pains and also has a very hard time sleeping.  Now he can't wait to lay on the Spoonk at night.  He loves it!!!  Definitely helps him relax and he falls right asleep... this used to be a rare occurance.  We tell everyone about the Spoonk
5	1373500800	i randomly picked this up at a variety type shop, completely discombobulated about its function but drawn to its design.  as a woman who has struggled with moderate to severe eczema, brought on by both environmental and stress factors, in addition to generalized lower back and neck pain, i thought that the concept of alternative healing was worth the bucks.  throughout my life i have been given steroids, creams, pills, and more, and none of it has had a lasting impact on my skin.  it comes down to stress.  and the Spoonk has certainly helped out with that!  from the first use, i felt actual, genuine relief in my overall being.  my skin's improved, my back and neck feel looser, and my improved mental health has led to improved physical health. this thing might look like it's from another planet, but i think it's stellar.  can't wait to get another one just for my head/neck.thanks, spoonk!
3	1373328000	That's what I said to myself when I actually saw this product.  I ordered it one day, apparently in a daze.  I am in pain every day, and God knows, people like me are desperate for something to relieve the pain.  I get the pressure point/ trigger point thing so I thought this might work.  What I didn't realize was how painful this thing looks.  Now, if you follow the directions (use on your bed), it's actually not that painful.  In most positions it is not painful at all.  I think this kind of does work.  My suggestion is to use it as directed, with soft meditative music in the background.  Incense like nag champa or lavender would be nice.  Anyhow, I am still experimenting with this.
5	1372982400	My niece saw this somewhere and decided it would be perfect for her after sitting for hours doing research at the computer. She wanted it ONLY in this magenta color and sure enough, I found it on Amazon! She is so happy with it and she might even buy another one for the car. Good quality and seems to be well made.
5	1372809600	This thing is amazing. My daughter calls this the &#34;Ouie Matt&#34; (ouie = ouch).At first it hurt like hell laying on this mat with no shirt on but after a couple minutes I fell into a deeep deeep relaxation state.. kind of similar to what you feel after 30 min or so of deep tissue massage. It's hard not to fall asleep. I especially like using this mat on my neck and bottom of my head.. super relaxing.
5	1372550400	I LOVE LOVE LOVE my spoonk. I get headaches and migraines regularly and 20 minutes and spoonking also does the trick!
5	1372032000	I had to try this based on all the positive customer reviews.  I am a 43 yr old woman in good health who used to experience frequent back pain, usually around my traps.  This mat has all but eliminated the pain.  It does feel like lying on a bed of broken glass for the first few minutes.  Just "suck it up" (that's what I tell myself the whole time!) and it will go away, along with your pain.  I am a believer!
5	1371513600	I had chronic shoulder pain from major surgery.Found this in an organic food market and bought this from here.It helps me to fall asleep!
5	1371081600	I have now purchased 4 Spoonks through Amazon.  I purchased the first Spoonk for my wife because she gets a really tight back and often only found relief by going to the accupuncturist.  She has not been back to the accupuncturist since she started using it. She loves it and gets tons of relief.  Another benefit is it really helps to relax you before bed.  My wife uses it every night.  I actually got jealous after using it a couple of times, so I purchased one for me as well.  We now Spoonk together at night before we go to sleep. Purchased the last two for gifts for relatives and they say they love them.
5	1370908800	This gives me that wonderful tingly feeling I get with acupuncture treatments and I can do this myself in the comfort of my own home!
5	1370822400	it's a very good product. Helps with all back aches and help  improve sleep pattern. Very recommended for pains,  insomnia
5	1370476800	I am soooo happy to have found this product. I have lupus, fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis and old neck and back injury. Years ago I went to an accupressurist and was stunned by how much he helped me. At the time I was bed ridden but managed to get to his office on a Thursday. That Saturday I was able to swim with manatees and it was awsome. Accupressure is the only thing I have ever found that really does eliminate pain. But I have not been able in the past several yrs. to find an accupressurist where I now live. As soon as this mat arrived I tried it out and once again experienced pain relief that nothing else touches.Be aware that there is a health warning that comes with the mat. If you have any kind of heart problem or are on blood thinners the manufacturer states that you NOT use this mat. Check with your doctor.
5	1370476800	Ouch!  The first 3 minutes on bare skin are painful, but you immediately feel a flood of warmth in the area.  And, more discomfort when you peel your skin off the pad, followed by some stinging sensation for a few minutes.  (Wearing a thin shirt cuts down on this but, for me, it also cut down on the effectiveness of the pad.)  But, wow, what a difference in my chronic back pain!  Time in the gym, physical therapy, stretching, massage, NSAIDS - nothing seemed to hit the problem area of my back.  After only 15 minutes on the Spoonk, pain is gone!  Unbelievable.  I have to make it a part of my regular routine, and I'm going to start using it on other troubling areas.Read the other reviews; they have good information and were helpful to me.  Someone commented on the pad being too small, and I can see that.  I'm 5'4" with a shorter torso, and the pad covered me from my shoulders to my lower back.  So, the size is good for me.I'm so glad I took a chance on this pad.
4	1370217600	I recently received my mat, upon opening the package I was fearful. With so many discs and so many points on each disc, I wondered if I would ever be able to bring myself to lay on it; they are pointy.  I must admit the first time I didn't use it on bare skin, I actually layed a flour sack dish towel over it.  It was still very effective, just not so intimidating.I like it and believe that I will love it the more I get used to it.  I've used it on my back, hips and stood on it as well.I do recommend it as it does really help with circulation.Janice - Champlin MN
5	1369958400	I got this Acupressure mat after reading the great reviews.  My husband suffers from terrible back pain which he has to see a chiropractor for twice per week.  He started laying on this for 40 minutes per day and his pain is substantially decreasing (after just a week of use!).  We can not believe his results so far-- it is extremely relaxing and is great at pain management.
5	1369958400	I purhased this when I was diagnosed with GAD (generalized anxiety disorder). It has helped tremendously!  I use it every day at least once before bedtime and if possible once during the day.  I lay on my back for 40 minutes and then my neck for 40 minutes.  It really helps with anxiety and pain reduction.  I love this product and have told many of my friends about it.  Amazon had the best price and it is worth every bit and more.  This product was featured on Dr. Oz's show so that is how I found out about it.  So glad I have it and will use it forever!
2	1369785600	After reading all the great reviews I was thrilled to receive this in the mail! However, it's quite painful. I'm not sure how the woman in the pictures is laying on that and feeling comfortable! I couldn't lay on this without a couple of shirts in between myself and the mat. Regardless of this, I had to return the product because the description online failed to post the tag's warning. If you have a heart condition or take a blood thinner you should not use this mat. I have both so I definitely can't use it. I'm disappointed but I'm glad others are enjoying this product.
5	1369785600	This works a lot better than I expected it to.  I stand on it for a few minutes in the morning, I lie on it at night for a while, or put it in the chair I'm sitting in, and it never fails to make me feel more relaxed and in less pain.
5	1369785600	I ordered this for my sister as a birthday gift and decided to get one for our family as well.  My husband and our three children and I love it!  In fact, I pulled a back muscle this morning exercising and had very decreased mobility.  This evening I used the Spoonk twice for 20 minutes each with just a cami on, and my mobility is at least 80% now.  It really helped!  Also, I tend to get tight in the neck/shoulder area and need periodic massages.  The spoonk has really helped with that, as well, and I find myself looser in the neck and shoulder area overall.  This is a must-have for anyone who wants to increase overall energy and well being, and a life-saver for muscle aches and pains.  Thanks for such a great product!  (By the way, mine didn't come with the promise of a gift for a 5 star review so I was kind of bummed about that, as I wouldn't have given one if I didn't believe in what I was saying, but I'm still hoping the Co. will read the review and send a gift anyway!)
5	1369612800	I love my mat. It was awkward at first, but it is amazing. I suggest starting with a shirt on and moving up to bare skin. I use it on my back to help ease my back pain. I have also used it on other parts of the body to ease pain. It helps stimulate the blood flow to the skin.
5	1369526400	I love love love this mat! So comfortable and so relaxing. It took a little while to get used to, but now can lie on it upwards of 40 minutes daily. I use it before bed to decompress and let the days stresses fade away. Highly recommend.
5	1369353600	I chose this one because my sis-in-law had one.  I definitely look forward to my evening &#34;spoonks&#34;.  Relaxing for sure.  This is definitely a no pain no gain.  If you can surpass the 5 minute &#34;pain,&#34; then it's so worth the benefits!
5	1369353600	We love love love our Spoonk! After initial hesitance because of the twinge of pain you feel at the start, we quickly became obsessed with this and continue to use it daily. We are avid rock climbers and I am very much into all aspects of fitness, especially things we can do outdoors, which means that we often have sore muscles, the Spoonk not only helps to alleviate this pain, but also has greatly reduced the anxiety that I am often prone to. If I feel an anxiety attack or general bout of grumpiness coming on, I can lay down on this for 30 minutes and get up feeling refreshed and at peace. I also have endometriosis which causes pain throughout much of my body, the Spoonk seems to ease this a bit as well. Also, great for helping you to fall asleep at night. I would, and will, recommend this to everybody I know!
4	1369267200	Even having read the instructions, didn't realize how huge a difference what type of clothing you are wearing makes until i tried it with a really thin t-shirt. I just about jumped off the floor. Now I've learned to dress for what level of pressure i want and it's all good.Pros;- Holding up well, no damage after 4 months of use- Comes with a net bag to store it in- Seems to help, and at the least feels really really good.Cons;- Trying to roll it up to put it away is a painful event if you're not careful
5	1369094400	This is a great way to relax at the end of the day.  After putting the kid to bed, eating some dinner and settling down for night, laying on the Spoonk mat for 20 minutes undoes the damage of a stressful day.  Great product, definitley recommend!
5	1368921600	If you value your health or just want to relax, try the Spoonk mat. I came across it looking for a gift for my mom and we both love it. Dr. Oz really knows his stuff and I can say from personal experience that it's worth every penny. It's so easy to fall asleep on my mat now. It really is that awesome!
5	1368748800	I ordered my mat after seeing a demo in Whole Foods.  I must say, I'm not really the &#34;relaxation&#34; type but was looking for relief from stress and muscle tightness due to my fitness-based  lifestyle.  WOW - I was pleasantly surprised at how deeply I am able to relax.  Be sure to ease your way into using the mat on bare skin.  If sensitive, you may want to start with a tee shirt or tank.  I'm planning on ordering the pillow fir my head & Shoulders - Happy Accupressure!
5	1368662400	I used my mat for a long 3500 mile trip while driving.  I just lifted up my shirt in the back and leaned back!  Don't know how I would have made it back home without it.  I also use it in the morning before golfing and find I can complete my round with veryminimal problems.  I would recommend it to anyone with back problems.  I have spinal stenosis and scoliosis.Denise from NH
5	1368662400	I use this daily and sleep better, really helps back pain. It is painful at first but give it a chance it will work wonders for you.
5	1368576000	The spoonk gives me a tingly feeling that is restful and relaxing. Great to use prior to bedtime for a peaceful night's sleep.
4	1368576000	Bought this for hubby who has DDD,he has only used it a couple of timesso far. Hopefully he will use it moreoften and I can write a better review !
5	1368576000	My Spoonk Mat has been great for not only myself but for my various students I have let borrow.  I am a Yoga teacher full time and it is just a very nice way to target specific areas or just to release and let go in to.  I will continue to use and suggest to my students.
1	1368576000	Did not like the feel of it. One of the purchases I regretted buying it. Saw it on dr oz.
5	1368489600	This product is truly amazing. I use it everyday and I feel terrific. It arrived early and it was a pleasure doing business with Spoonk. What an amazing Acupressure Mat!  I have told many friends to try this. Thanks so much.
3	1368489600	I got this mat to help with lower back pain. There seems to be some relief when I'm using it, but it doesn't last long after. The relief that I feel while I'm using it is because the back pain is being overshadowed by the pain from the acupressure mat.
5	1368489600	then you really do start to feel a warm and peaceful sensation begin to grow.  The analogy of it feeling like a sunburn the first time you lie on it is very accurate.  (I live in Orange County, Southern California, I know how a bad sunburn feels.)  But if you just breathe slow and deep you get past the ouchiness of it after the first 5 minutes.  Then it feels good, but you have to not give up the first time you use it.Update:  I've now had the mat for a little over a week.  I love it.  It's on my list of favorite things.  It takes getting used to but now I lay on it for 30 min or so and in fact, last night I actually fell asleep while laying on it, that's how much it relaxes me. I'm a writer so at the end of my day my low back and neck are seriously crinked up, but it doesn't matter any more, I know what's going to fix it... my mat.
5	1368489600	Chronic pain holds you hostage and wears you down. I spend much time each day trying to get my body to unclench from joint, muscle and tendon pain, swelling and spasms.  Years and years of this.  It's the kind of thing that causes depression after awhile, because you just can't get a break from it; it is overwhelming.  Still don't know what it is.  (Finally now seeing specialists for it.)  MEANWHILE, I bought this MAT.I put the mat on my bed propped up on pillows.  You have to kind of lower yourself part way and adjust yourself until you find the spot that gets you the most relief (and that you can tolerate), and then lower yourself all the way, slowly.  And then weep with relief for awhile.  Don't be afraid to weep, I say.  When you've tried everything, and you finally get some relief, you may weep all you want.I rolled on it, one way or another, on each spot that hurt, even on my neck (I'm getting the pillow, too), and I felt such relief as I have not felt for 6 years.  I still have pain, I always do.  But this gave me some relief for awhile.  It's like pain intervention.  Fight pain with pain?  I don't understand how it works, but it works.
4	1368403200	it hurts definitely when you lay down, don't try to rearrange yourself by sliding....OUCH!  I do have to say I felt better I just need to force myself to use it more often to really reap the benefits....would recommend.
5	1367971200	I recently bought an acuppressure massage mat for a family member and decided to buy my own after trying it a few times. The first mat I bought was from a different manufactor and I was naive about the stimulating points. I decided to my Spoonk mat because the color of the mat fits my personality. Once my arrived I was excited to lay on it, the very first thing I noticed was the stimulating points were a lot better quaily than the first mat. The Spook stimulating point are made of a stronger plastic and don't roll in when you lay on the mat. I will be sending the first mat back and buy a second Spook!
5	1367712000	Yes it hurts at first! But my hubby and I each have one and we always fall asleep on the mat and sleep well afterward. It does give you a sense of deep relaxation and well being.
5	1367539200	This is a very tricky item to review.  At first (as others have written) it is VERY painful and uncomfortable to use.  It took me several tries to get my body positioned so it was bearable. The first time I used this I planned on just trying it for 5 minutes. But once I got my body on there correctly? 10 Minutes later, I was almost asleep.Once you get comfortable (adjusting hurts!) it is amazing.You will get "tougher" as you use this product more and more.At first, I couldn't even move to scratch my face without it hurting, but after a week or so, you can move a bit without pain. But basically, you are lying VERY STILL while using this product.I love my mat. I didn't buy the pillow, and really don't see a need for one. I just drape this a bit on my pillow (on my bed) so my neck gets the affects.  Enjoy!
5	1367366400	I've always had back issue from injury and stress related issues so I finally gave in and ordered this mat.... Damn it to hell.... I want to kick myself for not trying it sooner!!! It hurt a little at first and kinda stung but I stayed on it and after I got up I was soooooooo relaxed!!!!  I even rolled over and took a long needed nap! This is the best invention since the wheel! Lol. Try it!
5	1367107200	I purchased this item as a gift.  The recipient thanked me many times over and had extremely positive feedback regarding the product.  She suffers from debilitating back pain and found relief with this product.
5	1367020800	I am using this mat almost every day before sleep. After reading some reviews here on Amazon, I was a bit sceptical about it. But decided to give it a chance. I don't regret my decision: it imroved my sleep, helped to eliminate stiffness in my back. I find myself falling asleep while on the mat every time. Anyone in doubt: try it - you will be surprised!
5	1366848000	I just received this mat from my friend and I am surprised at how quickly and how much this product alleviates the muscle tension in my back.  This is a great product and the seller is outstanding.
4	1366848000	Just received this yesterday. I was intimitated right away, I flashed back on the hundreds of reviews I read...and decided to breath and get busy. My back condition has me using a cane right now...herniated disc, and I am looking for natural pain relief. Okay so I placed the mat on my bed as instructions state with thin shirt, but heavier pants. Happy..the pressure was not painful. I felt this pulsing sensation through my abdomen. I timed it for 5 min. Ended up over 25 min. Stood up and felt a difference. Less pain on left side which is the worst. 04/25 - used this a.m. in nude. Okay, I felt the discomfort...but it is tolerable. Some relief again....will be using in a.m. and p.m. Can feel left side releasing some muscle tightness. I am pleased. Will continue to note progress.
5	1366588800	The first couple of weeks I used it, it did hurt when I first laid on it.  I loved the warming sensation and even fell asleep on it a few times.  Now it doesn't even hurt when I lay on but I still wouldn't suggest moving around or readjusting without sitting up and then moving the mat to where you want it.So glad I got this, I am sleeping better than I have in years.
5	1366329600	This mat is wonderful! I use it mainly on my feet and back, and has helped with pain and circulation. I sleep way better at night as well. The mat will be a tad painful until you get use to using it which doesn't take long. I used the mat with my shirt or socks on for about a week until i moved to bare skin and that seemed to ease to transition. If you have back pains or restless legs you should definitely give this mat a try!
3	1366243200	Honestly, it's okay....I don't feel much different after I do it.  I think it's overpriced.  And, it's much smaller than I expected.
5	1366156800	I suffer from migraines and headaches. I originally got this mat to help with fertility as a friend of mine swears she got pregnant with its help. But I started pushing my head into it, side of face, top of head and literally my headaches are gone. This is huge for me!!!It's not really painful but you can feel the pricks, then you get hot and flushed.The mat warns that certain people i.e. pregnant, certain disorders should not use the mat.This mat is the size of like half a bath towel.
5	1366070400	My husband and I love the Spoonk mat. Initially I found the pain of lying back on the mat quite excruciating, but once you get past that (and your skin does harden up to the spikes somewhat) the feeling is deeply relaxing. I like to lie on it with meditation music on the afternoons or in bed before I go to sleep. I'll be getting one for my parents too! Highly recommend.
5	1365552000	First of all, this product exists within the culture of new age medicine, organic foods, and hemp, generally stuff I'm just not that in tune with.  When I came across this product while looking for a massage chair mat to relieve some back pain, the only thing that kept me from writing it off instantly was the overwhelming difference in reviews over everything else I had been looking at.I took a chance and picked one up at the local whole foods thinking there was little chance I wouldn't be back there returning it the same day.  I'm glad my open mind prevailed.  My first experience with it wasn't as painful as other reviews had made it seem.  If you lie straight down and don't move around much on the little spikes, it's really not too bad even on bare skin.  Standing on it with bare feet was a little bit too much for me but with socks it was fine.  The sensation of pain subsided very quickly as I breathed deeply and relaxed.  I actually fell asleep during the day on my back, two things that I've never been able to do.  I woke up to somewhat of a burning situation.  Getting off of it was a bit more painful than getting on but I couldn't believe how relaxed and loose I was from it.  It really did feel very much like I had just gotten a massage.  I've been using it regularly for a few months now and not only is my desk related back pain 90% better, I've gone from an insomniac who couldn't wake up on time with 5 alarms going off to someone who gets up an hour or two early with relative ease.Long story short- just buy it.  It's paid for itself several times over in reduced visits to the chiropractor and masseuse and I got more than my money's worth of improved mood and productivity.
2	1365552000	I read all the raving reviews...  so I bought one.The little white discs are about the side of a quarter and they have sharp little plastic points. I mean VERY pointy!They're fairly shallow - approx. 1/8&#34; tall, so you do NOT get really deep pressure points, just superficial stuff.The mat itself isn't very big, so if you're a large person (say over 5'10&#34;) then this mat won't cover your whole back.This mat seems to work well for lots of people, but for me I think improvements could be made:1. taller accupressure points - like 1/4&#34; to 3/8&#34; would be ideal.2. slightly rounded ends that aren't so pointy.3. offer the mat in a larger version.
5	1365379200	I bought one for my sister for Christmas and I printed off some of the reviews and included them with her gift. We had a good laugh at how much the reviews made it sound like a instrument of torture.  I was waiting for her to use hers to see how she liked it, but she took too long.  I went ahead and bought one for myself.  The first time I used it I was petrified. But I laid on it for 5 minutes.  The next time I laid on it for 10 minutes.  Now I can fall asleep on it.  As you first start using it, you can feel your back pulsating. A weird feeling, but I know it is working its magic.I suffer from mid-back pain that triggers when I do things like fold clothes, chop vegetables, or many other activities that have my arms extended forward for long periods of time.  Now, when I feel the muscle starting to spasm, I go lay on my Spoonk.  If I catch it soon enough, the Spoonk is enough to stop the muscles spasm in its tracks.  If I let it go on too long before using the Spoonk, the Spoonk will give me relief but only for about 20 - 30 minutes.  But that is enough time for pain medication to kick in.The spoonk can be addictive.  My mother now has one and she lent it to a family friend and he couldn't believe how well he slept after using it...so she let him keep it and got herself another one.Previous reviews mentioned something about a free travel mat for leaving a 5 star review. Someone complained and I understand, but darn, I just missed the free offer!  I was leaving a 5 star anyway and would have loved a free travel mat!  But the good thing is, the regular Spoonk comes with a carrying bag so I can take it with me and believe me I will!UPDATE - September 2013Received the travel Spoonk from my mother for my birthday!  I love it.  I keep it in the car in case I get a muscle spasm while out.  There are so many times I have been out when my back started to spasm and it is extremely painful to drive home. Now, with the Spoonk travel mat, I just slip it on my seat and lean back and it provides the necessary pain relief to allow me to drive home.
5	1365206400	I received one of these for Christmas, and I love it. I have frequent headaches related to neck tension. When pain meds don't work I lay on my mat for about 10-20 mins. It feels great and helps with the tension. I also use it for my lower back at times after standing for hours at a time.However, the men in my family do not like it bc they can't tolerate the pointy discs (which is the whole point of the mat in the first place). So, if you are not a wimp, and are willing to lay on the mat long enough to reap the benefits, you would probably like it as well.
5	1365206400	I stumbled across this mat while looking for a lumbar support pillow. It arrived yesterday and I have used it twice on my back. Wonderful! Do use it with bare skin. I used breathing technique to get through the first minutes and then, after relaxing my body, it was amazing. Worthwhile purchase.
5	1364947200	Life hanging,!!! I purchased many (8) for gifts and I have found all friends who received the mats  from me were gloriously revived and pleased with the results. Many are reluctant to write a review so I am providing a summary:"My fiber myalgia is better. I can sleep""Years of chronic back pain are vastly diminished ""Years of cervical pain night after night are improved""I thought this was a joke but she convinced to try it and I'm glad I finally gave in. My insomnia is way less now!"
3	1364947200	This is my honest review of the Spoonk Mat.  I received in my package a letter from Natasha F. from Spoonk that if I gave a 5-star review I would receive a free travel sized Spoonk.  I think this is a shady practice and I relied on the reviews here on Amazon.  Spoonk has stated on this site that they discontinued the offer, but I just received my Spoonk mat with the included letter.  Now on to my review.I have severe back problems often times which goes into spasms.  I wanted to find something that would ease some of my nightly pains.I was skeptical at first about the Spoonk mat.  After using it for a couple of weeks, I can say that it does provide some relief for my back pains (mostly muscle aches).  However, the relief is only temporary.  Sometimes, my pain will return within a few minutes after I've used my Spoonk mat.  Also, how the mat feels depends upon were you place the mat (i.e. bed, hardwood floor, carpet).On my Tempurpedic mattress this mat shines.  Its a good balance between feeling good with just a pinch of "ouch".  It definitely provides a relaxing feel, almost like someone is scratching your back.Don't expect miracles with the Spoonk Mat.  It does feel good under certain applications.  It does temporarily alleviate some of my back pains.  However, there are times, such as when I use it on hardwood floors, that I feel the Spoonk Mat can be too painful, therefore, getting off of the mat may appear to make your back feel better when actually it's just the relief of being off the mat.  One thing I wasn't expecting is how red my back becomes when using the mat.  Also, you can see the little indentations where the mat pokes into your back.One concern I do have with the mat is the longevity of the sharpness of the plastic "spikes".  I believe the mat will lose its effectiveness with wearing of the "spikes".My conclusion is the Spoonk Mat is an average product.  It does provide some temporary relief when used under certain conditions.  Had I just went with my gut feeling about the biased reviews here, I purchased a back massager for chairs over the Spoonk Mat.
5	1364774400	I love my Spoonk!  I lay on it in the morning and it gets my day going.  I wasn't sure it was going to do anything, but 20min a day really helps.  It feels a little like a sunburn at first, then settles in to a relaxing/soothing sensation.  Highly recommended.
1	1364601600	Bought one of these for my son and son-in-law - They are not into torture!!!  Call your local &#34;Swami&#34; before buying
5	1364515200	Just love this Spoonk mat. It has helped me tremendously. I have battled anxiety my whole life, and just laying on this mat has helped me so much! It helps calm me down so i can function better during the day, and at night it will help me to fall asleep. Yes, it hurts, but i started off at just a few minutes at a time, and have built up endurance. It is also durable, and well made. I highly recommend this and it can't be beat for the price.
3	1364515200	This product is okay but I don't like they offer a free travel size with a 5 star review.  Are the other reviews doing it for a sake of something free?
2	1364428800	My wife and I tried it a half dozen times or so over 2 weeks.  I don't get how anyone enjoys it.  My wife fell asleep for 2 hours lying on it and in the morning, still no lasting relief.  Went to the website and followed the manufactures recommendations and never got more than a few minutes relief.  Sending back today.
5	1364428800	As a retired bioenergetic practitioner and therapist (30 years), I am well aware of the desire people have for a quick fix to emotional and related physical disturbances. I urge people to approach the Spoonk mat with respect and patience for themselves. You may be tempted to overdo at first. I don't advise its use initially without some fabric between your skin and the mat. You may start using it on your bare skin after you've begun to melt into the experience. The point is for you to surrender to its effects, not to prove your tolerance for pain. You have nothing to prove. You want to use the mat so you can feel more, so you can challenge the tensions that cut you off from your feelings. Go slowly. I can't say enough about its ability to help ground my feet. I spend two or three times daily standing on the mat, 10 to 15 minutes each time, changing my stance every minute or so. In the process I feel greater security in my feet, legs, and spine and the energetic flow moves from the balls of my feet to the top of my head. The result is a feeling of integrity, top to bottom, front and back.
5	1364256000	Ok so I was very skeptical of this products... how is a mat full of spikes going to help me cure this back pain that I've had for years? crazy and the people that give five stars are all crazy also.  I didn't care that this mat was on all the different shows or whatnot because I think that it was probably all a ploy for more publicity.  I messed up my back a long time ago doing heavy squats. And to compound this, I had surgery a year and a half ago to insert a steal bar in my chest which drastically affected my range of motion as well as making my back worse than before.  I would have backache everyday no matter what I do or how many lotion/rubs I have on my back the day before.Now that I have laid on it as recommended per the instructions, I can see what the rave reviews are all about. These tiny spikes really do work as it relieves my back from pain.  I don't know how it works but all I can say is that it feels great to go to work the next day and not have back pain.The Spoonk Acupressure Mat has allowed me to enjoy a more restful sleep as well as going through my days without back pain.  Now I try to do it once a day late after work and I often find myself just sleeping as I lay on the mat with spikes.  Great product and I would recommend it to my family and friends.
4	1364083200	I got this for my wife who swears that it works great!  I got the same one with acupressure pillow for about the same price. However, I have used this product since I left my last review and I find this product really works! I am a skeptic and consider what I hear as opinion but now I have converted it to a FACT.
4	1364083200	I've been having back pains, so I've decided to purchase a Spoonk mat and see what the fuss is about.The first time I've used it, I had a really great night of sleep the same night.  Since then, I've only tried it a few times.  You should make sure your mind is somewhat relaxed as well, which can be hard for city folks like me; otherwise, a very conscious mind can feel the spikes.  Nonetheless, it could be a little painful at first, but after adjusting to a comfortable position, you and laying still on the mat for 5-10 minutes, you should be able to feel the blood circulating all over your body.  It's such a nice feeling.BODY: back & front, typical usageNECK: haven't tried this yet, a little hard to adjust with a flat mat but I imagine it would be very very nice.FEET: I know a lot of people step on the mat, I haven't tried that yet.  Instead, I've placed the mat on my bed, and put my knees up while I read or on the computer (so only a fraction of my weight would be applying to the mat).FACE: I've tried to use the mat ON my face a couple of times (instead of the other way around), it gives me a nice tingling feeling.SCALP: at last, I've put it on top of my head and pressed Spoonk down onto my scalp for a few minutes.  I've had the best nap that day!I am not sure if I would purchase this @80, considering a single acupuncture session would cost $50+, I think this is well worth it  :)
5	1363996800	The spoonk matt is great before bed. It makes your back hot and releases the tension in your body. Just lay back and feel the relaxation take over.
5	1363996800	I got the Spoonk mat as a recommendation from a friend who is a Physical Therapist.  I am a mountain biker, rock climber and as I have been creeping closer to 40 I have taken a much closer look at recovery.  I get regular massages but cannot afford to get one every day.  Enter the Spoonk, perfect as a recovery tool.  I use it after trail hikes on my feet (with socks on) and it really invigorates my feet after only 10 minutes.  I also use it before falling asleep while I'm reading and my sleep has improved.  I use sleep apps to monitor my sleep so it is more than just a subjective feeling.  The other way I use it is to wrap it around my foam roller to really hit my lower back and hamstrings after climbing.  I've always stored a lot of tension and fatigue in those areas and the Spook has really helped.  I am speaking as a recreational athlete who uses my Spook for recovery and it works.  I am sure there are many other people who could benefit from the Spoonk mat but recovery happens to be the area I have some experience in.I emailed some questions and they were answered promptly by the customer service department.  The mat is well constructed and I have even started taking it when I have to travel for work.  Do your research and give it a try, it is a quality product.Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag
5	1363910400	The mat is great to lie on.  When you get up there are little indentation on your back but no bleeding. It&#8217;s seems very therapeutic. I once fell asleep while lying on the mat. The Amazon Price and quick delivery was excellent. The only caution is if your are on blood thinners you should not use this mat.
5	1363910400	It looks a little scary at first and is a little painful the 1st time, however- once you use it- you're hooked. this is the 1st time I've reviewed a product on amazon, but I can honestly say this is well worth the money. My roommate have all tried out the mat and one is planning to buy one for herself and her mother for back pain. It's really helped me with my own back pain- far cheaper and more effective than going to the chiropractor.
5	1363910400	Love this mat! It helps with my frequent migraine attack and minor circulation problem. It will hurt for a split second but its all worth it in the end. I highly recommend it.
4	1363910400	I saw this mat while I was googling for a massage tool. After reading so much rave reviews and even Dr. Oz recommended it on his show, I decided to give it a try. When I received the mat, I was pleased to see the fine quality of the product. The clothing of the mat is comfortable, and both the color and pattern of the mat are tasteful. As for the product itself, I'd be lying if I say I feel comfortable on the mat cause it really hurts! After a while, I get used to it and felt my back pain was relieved. I use it mostly now for my back and my legs. It really help to release my back tension and helps my swelling legs. I would recommend for people who wants to have a better blood circulation on their body parts and also who has back pains.
2	1363824000	I love accupressure/shiatsu massage. The deeper the better. I was hoping this mat would be a nice deep stress relieving tool.  I've had it for several months now and have used it maybe 3 times.  It's really not something that I turn to for stress-relief, and it is really rather uncomfortable.  This may stimulate acupuncture points on the body, but it's obviously not anything remotely like the soothing comfort one gets from an acupressure massage. There is an offer for a free travel size mat if one submits a 5 star review, which might explain the preponderance of these.  I might give this more of a chance now that it's getting warmer and the weather is more amenable to laying around w/o a shirt on this thing.  Good luck fellow shoppers.
4	1363737600	I've only had the mat for a week but so far so good. It's really great for relaxing and unwinding and I have fallen asleep on it twice. My husband is also enjoying the relaxing benefits of the mat. I haven't been able to get a full feel for it since I am pregnant and can only use it from the mid-back and up but it's helped me to feel energized. I haven't had too much improvement in the sleep department but I am unable to use the mat to the fullest.As for the discomfort... I guess it depends on what you're used to. I'm a Korean woman so a lifetime of using exfoliating towels from the Motherland and having my grandmother painfully rub the dead skin from my feet and ankles as a child kind of prepared me for the mat. I didn't think it was terribly painful but it is most definitely uncomfortable for the first few seconds. Even if you're not used to discomfort, if you can get through the first minute or two you're golden. Totally would recommend to anyone looking for a convenient and affordable alternative to weekly massages/spa visits.
5	1363651200	My grandaughter recommended this product to me.  She said it would help me sleep better.  I can say that I am sleeping better sice usung the mat.
5	1363564800	I received this mat as a Christmas present.  I thought it looked bizarre, and assumed it was something I wouldn't use.  My brother bought it for me because I'd just given birth to twins in November, my 3rd pregnancy.  My back was all out of whack from the pregnancy (both babies were born full term at over 7lb each!) as were my hips.  I decided to give it a try, and absolutely fell in love.  I don't know exactly why it works, but it just creates a feeling of calm & peace when I lay on it.  I use a thin t-shirt, haven't worked up to bare skin yet.  I use it a few times a week, would probably use it more if I wasn't so busy with my 4 boys, but I really enjoy my 5-10 minutes of relaxation after I throw the kids in bed.  Hubby didn't much care to lay on it, but one day he was in his work boots for 15 hours, a looong work day, and on his feet the whole time with just a 30 minute break.  His feet were in pain by the time he got home; he stood on the mat for a few minutes at a time, taking breaks in between, and thought that it really helped relax his feet (the foot massage I gave him didn't cut it).  My body has seemed to repair itself with time, but I'm sure using the mat has helped.  I don't know if it cures all ailments, but it sure helps, and it REALLY is great for relaxation.  If you have a hard time falling asleep, follow the instructions and I'm sure you'll sleep like a baby (well, hopefully better!).
5	1363305600	I have my back issues with severe scoliosis and I like holistic approaches to any ailment.  This is it.  I rely on this daily for back relief and the release of tension.  My husband and I love the mat.  It energizes us and it puts us to sleep.  Crazy that it could do both but it does.  I am always looking for something to help me rather than taking a pill. Doctors always want to push medicine thinking that it is going to solve the problem. It just creates more.  The only side effect this has is feeling good. I am just a regular mom who like everyone else, doesn't have time to be on bedrest because of back problems for weeks.  Sciatica, tension, muscle weakness, muscle spasms, the spoonk has helped me through and helps me get back going the next day.  Take my advice it really is worth it. I have spent so much money on doctors, muscle relaxers, physical therapy over many years.  This is definitely chearper than what that would cost.
5	1363132800	It really helps me sleep better. Wearing thin clothes while you are laying on it is the best result. Love it.
5	1363132800	Love this thing! I saw it in the store, and decided to research online. It REALLY takes some determination to get used to the intial sensation as it really does hurt at first. I started out doing 10-15 minutes for the first couple of nights. Now, I'm actually falling asleep on it! I use it before going to bed at night, and I love how I feel on it. I feel a lot more relaxed and I feel like I'm not waking up in the middle of the night anymore(which had been happening). I recommend for anyone who has trouble sleeping - I really think it's made an improvement for me.
5	1362960000	This mat is amazing!!!!!!!!!!I have low back pain which also causes bursitis pain. After one 15 minute session on the mat I slept better and after 2 sessions my low back pain and bursitis started to subside. After 3 sessions I slept through the night because my bursitis pain was no longer strong enough to wake me up as a turned over. The one session I took on my stomach actually did help digestive issues I'm guessing through regular elimination during the day.The best and cheapest treatment I have found for my pain issues. Look forward to spending time on it EVERY Day.J Tegeler153 Delhi RdManchester, Ia  52057
5	1362700800	To anyone who is skeptical about this magical mat, I am writing to tell you that it DOES WORK, it is the best thing I ever brought for myself.  For the ones who write or keep up with their New Year Resolution, usually our priorities is to Have a discipline diet we stay on track with, exercise, healthy eating & habits.  So I brought the mat to help me relax & my aching back (I sit in office all day, for 20 years at the job).  Each morning before I get up, I slide it under my lower back for 20 mins a day, I definitely feel better sleep & tension around my shoulder area & back has diminished.  In Feb, I went back on Amazon to buy a set for my husband (mat & pillow).  We are both enjoying it very much & I urge anyone who has no serious medical condition to give it a try.  The best part also is that it is organic fabric, with eco foam.  Good luck, hope you enjoy your purchase as much as I do.  Also, be careful that you are not buying any other brand than SPOONK, this is the authetic one that were endorsed by Dr. Oz & Oprah.
5	1362700800	I tried this accupressure mat this morning at a tradeshow and I continued to feel it's effects for nearly a half hour of walking. Cool thing is I only stood on it for a couple of minutes instead of the recommended 20-30 minutes.
5	1362614400	Folks, the other positive reviews are not lying. This product truly is magnificient. Spoonk genuinely helped me relieve my backpain. I wake up with no back pain, i sleep with no back pain, and the pain does not return as frequently as it did before using Spoonk.You may feel overwhelmed at first by how strong the &#34;pricks&#34; are but once you concentrate on breathing and relaxing yourself, it works wonders. Plus you can try it with a shirt on (I prefer using it on my bare skin). I've recommended this to my family and friends and received a lot of praise.I'm not sure how Spoonk is different from the other Acupressure mats out there but Spoonk is a safe bet because of its reputation. Just make sure to keep the Spoonk mat covered or rolled up in a bag, because it will collect dust easily if left on the floor.  I hope your pain is alleviated from Spoonk like mine was!
4	1362614400	It makes me less stressed out and I feel like its somehow helped my neck pain. I recommend this on your bed because it can be painful on the ground but that does go away within a couple of minutes.
5	1362441600	I had heard about the Spoonk Mat from the Dr. Oz show, but at first I was too big of a wuss to give it a try. For over nine months I had been weekly going to see the chiropractor for back pain that resulted from a car accident and also the pregnancy and labor of my two large boys and I was getting frustrated with the bill growing and growing. I decided to take the plunge and give Spoonk a try! I figured that even if I hated it it would be cheaper than the chiropractor visits, but I ended up loving it and have not been to the chiropractor since.I typically lay on it at night to relax me for sleeping. The discomfort at the start is truly worth the pleasing tingle you get after a few minutes. I also love using it for headaches. I just lay it on my pillow and relax till the pain vanishes.Take the plunge and try it for yourself!
5	1362441600	I absolutely love this.  I use it to lie down on.  I stand on it when I'm folding laundry or I'll sit on it when I'm on my computer.  It makes a big difference after a long day at work and my feet are killing me.  I've recommended it to several of my work friends.
5	1362441600	First off let me say to who take about how painful it is. Since this mat is designed to give a acupuncture/accupressure approach to pain then you can expect to feel a good amount of pain. However if you sit tight for just another minute or two when you think it is unbearable it will pass and replace itself with a phenomenal rush of relaxation unlike anything you have ever felt before.As for this mat, I can tell you that I have owned the Heavenly mat, the Halsa mat, the Nayayo mat and finally the original tibetan mat that has no foam just disc on a canvas. With 100% certainty I can say that THIS MAT IS THE HIGHEST QUALITY MAT Available ON THE MARKET TODAY, end of story, fact, fact, fact. I have own two of them and just recent ditch all the other to find myself return to Spoonk.Try it people, you will love it, wear a light shirt if it is too instence or even a light bedding sheet, but don't spend another several hundred on pills when this mat will just change your life.
5	1362441600	I'm instantly relaxed and puts me to a terrific  sleep the first time I used this. Now I use this every night before I sleep. A little uncomfortable at first but after a minute or two you'll get hooked to it.
5	1362355200	A friend from Facebook highly recommended this product and because of her I decided to try this product out. I just have been using it for about a week and I like it so far. I am a horse trainer and instructor and my back needs to be healthy so I am believing that this will be part of my massage and chiropractic routine.
5	1362182400	I normally have pain every day. After lying on the mat, my back didn't hurt. I had a warm feeling and actually felt energized too.  Unbelievable.
5	1362096000	I saw this mat in a boutique while traveling and did some research as soon as I got home.  Since receiving it from Amazon four days ago I have used it at least 30 minutes per day and love it.  The first 30 seconds are excruciatingly painful but after that it is quite comfortable especially if I have placed a small pillow under my neck so the curve of the mat adapts to my spine.  It has been a relief not to rely on ibuprofen to relieve the slight but nagging lower back pain.  A great product which will become part of my daily routine.Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag
5	1362096000	I was originally looking for yoga mats and some how the search kept bringing up this, which looked horrible. Out of curiosity I started reading reviews to see what the heck this thing was. I was continually surprised when everyone said it was awesome. My husband's 63 birthday was coming up and he is always complaining he doesn't sleep well. So I gave it a shot.He looked at me like I was crazy. "You got this bed of nails for me because your mad at me?" I coerced him on it and he hollered, relaxed and suffered through the first few minutes until he relaxed. Guess what? After he got off of it his back was warm...even that cold spot that is always noticeably colder than the rest of him. He slept well."That was just a fluke." he declared. So for the next few days he kept trying it and it kept working. He is sold. I am once again the winner... in finding him gifts he thought he would never like.Thanks. Touch and go for awhile, but this little bed of nails works for relaxing and sleeping.
3	1362009600	It's okay for the price. There's not really much more to say than that. It works, but it's not life changing
5	1361923200	Wow. This thing is incredible. I have never used one of these things before, but now I am hooked. 5 Stars.
5	1361836800	Love this mat. I am instantly relaxed and it almost puts me in a euphoric state. A little uncomfortable to use at first, but once you get used to it you won't wanna get off it!
5	1361750400	I bought this because my massage therapist said I HAD to get one! She loves her and also sleeps like a baby since owning one. She warned me of pain, but lasts a moment. She was right! Only intense for about a minute or two but goes away....until you move, but goes away again. Then the magic begins.....you feel awesome!!!I recently visited my parents and took it with me to their house. Sure enough I came without it because they loved it too! They acted like children......it's my turn, no it's my turn, you already used it on your back, now you want to use on your feet?!?!?! It's entertaining to see 65 year olds act like this over a mat.I had to order another for myself and ordered two more for other family members.I now see why this got so many great reviews and no negative ones.i couldn't believe there were no star ratings under 4. I've never bought a product with such great reviews!!! Buy this now, you won't regret it!!!
2	1361664000	First I'll start by saying if you need costumer service you'll get non. I called 5 times and left 3 messages with my phone number and email address and they did not contacted me or answer the phone. I called at business hours and in different days of the week ( then I guess trying more than ones in a day should count for more times...) and no one answered, just a message so be aware that this is going to happen when buying the spoonk.The spoonk mat was like the picture but it comes in a black nylon bag not a matching fabric one like you see in the Internet pictures those are for the organic ones (just letting you know). I was expecting it to hurt but you already know that when you buy it right? I did 25 minutes the first time and  35 minutes the 2nd time. The first time hurt the most because I was in my bare skin and the second time I had a tank shirt. I tryied it in the floor, in the sofa and in the bed and definitely the bed is better. If you are very sensitive don't do it in the floor specially the first time. It feels like bees have poke you as it gives you a burning sensation but I was willing to go thru it if it was going to take my pain away. I have to say I did started feeling like my body was trying to relaxed the first time but I really think I just wanted to love it. The pain won't go away after 5 minutes so don't count on that but after 8 or so min. You can bare it better, use a shirt if you must the first times. The second time I felt worst and my pain increased during the night (not while I was in the mat, after) after that I try it two more times with out any results and decided to return it since they have no costumer service and I couldn't get any help or answers.I really wanted to love this mat and talked about it to everyone (so glad they waited before buying) but I really can't recommend a product with no costumer service, how is the 5 year warranty supposed to work? Also I don't think it works but again I tried it 4 times (would have try it more times to be sure if I had more time to return)Other things to know 1.The spikes are pointy but they won't open your skin if you use them properly. 2. The marks will fade away after 10 minutes or so. 3. Be careful not to leave it on the floor if you have a pet or children because if handle In the wrong way it can cut them and hurt them. 4. If you are using a shirt use a very light one so you can still feel something. 5. Never use it on the floor if its your first time using the mat. 6. Breathe!
5	1361664000	It has made me feel very relaxed. I will continue using it and recommend anyone to try it and see if you feel a change.
5	1361577600	it hurts a little bit when you first lay on it so you need to lay alongside of it and roll on to it if you can tolerate the pain for about the minutes.  After that, the sensation is wonderful.
5	1361577600	A friend from Finland told me about this mat and I purchased the Spoonk Mat 01/11/2013 using it off and on since then half hour at bed time to relax and half hour in the mornings to rejuvenate my body. Last night this payed for itself in one application celebrated my 71 birthday by shoveling snow and playing with my 3 granddaughters in the snow. That night I awoke at 2:45am to very bad pain in lower back, pulled the Spoonk Mat out from under the bed and positioned it under my back from hip area to just below my neck after 15min pain started to subside and after 45min pain was gone removed mat and slept soundly tell 8am and awoke with know pain at all. The one thing I would do different is I wish I had ordered the pillow to go with the mat I can roll the mat to work but would be much easier having the pillow to go along with the mat. Thank you Spoonk and my friend in Finland!
4	1361404800	I have back pain that also causes my back muscles to tighten.  The first time I used the mat, it was uncomfortable, but within 15 minutes I was relaxed.  I use it often and find it very relaxing.  I even brought the mat in my carryon luggage.
5	1361318400	Love my accupressure mat, I get the best night's sleep after lying on the mat for about 20 minutes. Highly reccommended!
5	1361145600	Works great for stiff back muscles (recently did a lot of snow shoveling). I did fall asleep on it twice for about two hours, very painful when you get off the mat, felt like my back was burning In a fire for about 10min, i guess bc the blood rushes back. I recommend 20 to 30 min and try not to fall asleep.
5	1360972800	I use this mat every night. I took about a week to get use to. I know enjoy the burning sensation created by the spikes on the mat. It no longer hurts and helps with inducing sleep and relieving pain in my back.
5	1360972800	I just finished my first "session" with my new Spoonk, and wow!!!!! My muscles are incredibly relaxed and refreshed, it's unreal. However, I am not going to lie and say that getting to that ending euphoria was pain free.  I hung out on the Spoonk for 10 minutes with bare skin, and oh my goodnesss, it's a little intense.  Is the discomfort worth it? YES. Absolutely.  Almost 20 minutes after my session, it still feels like I just paid 200 bucks for a massage.  Lucky for me, this mat cost a lot less and is something I can incorporate into my daily life, instead of being a once-in-a-while splurge.  THANK you Spoonk!
2	1360886400	After having read 500+ positive reviews & countless you-tube video reviews, I can't believe my disappointment with this product.  It really feels like I fell for a gimmick and it's embarrassing.  The first time I used the mat was very painful.  I had this burning, throbbing sensation that reminded me of how I felt after have 3+ hours of tattoo work done.  Then when I sat up, to my surprise, I saw droplets of my blood on one of the spikes.  Yikes.  I didn't give up though because I wanted to get the results that so many people were going on and on about, so I did try the mat 4 more times.  I will agree that the pain did lessen with more use, but I never got a tingling, energetic feeling, I never felt more relaxed, nor did it improve my sleep.  I can only believe that this is just some sort of weird placebo.
5	1360627200	I purchased this mat and just love it.  It helps you relax and it really helps you to sleep.  Makes for a great gift for anyone.  It's a must have.
5	1360540800	I love it! I bought the Spoonk Mat for lower back pain and to sleep better!! I find it works best for me if I have a T-shirt on. I can only describe it as laying on golf shoe spikes. It looks like its gonna be painful but its not and I have actually grown to like using it daily. I let a friend borrow it and I really missed it for the week she had it. My friend thought I was crazy when I showed it to her but after using it, she bought one. I also like to use it during my meditations, it brings a sense of stillness to me.
5	1360540800	On the weekends, I set aside time to do the complete Energizing Morning Routine.  During the week, I lie on it while I check my calendar for the day and do a few sudoku puzzles on my phone.  I get up feeling energized and ready start my day with a positive outlook.
5	1360454400	I gotta say, this thing hurts like hell when you first use it on your bare back. But it does certainly make a difference. I use it for about 20 minutes before I go to bed and it DOES HELP me in falling asleep. Only thing is that I am left with a tingly feeling for a few minutes after I use and it is hard to not focus on it as I am falling asleep.
5	1360281600	I received one of your mats for Christmas.  I Love, Love ,Love it.  I have been going to an acupuncture for a little over a year.  When I saw your mat on Grommet I was curious to see if it would provide any benefits. I have been using it since the first of January every day and it is great.  Really relaxes me, makes my stress go away.Thanks you so much for producing these mats.  I tell everyone I know about it and hope you get many more orders.  I have told my acupuncturer about them and he is very interested  in them.  He may carry them in his office.ThanksGinger
5	1360195200	I have always dealt with back pain and since I started using my Spoonk I have very little to no back pain......Amazing!!!
5	1360195200	i heard about spoonk from a friend of mine who has insomnia. I have used acupressure products for years and have found them to be very worthwhile but not for insomnia. I have two friends who have severe sleep issues and told them to give it a try. Both of them are having excellent results. I am finding it very useful for joint and muscle aches and pains. It really does work well and is a wonderful self health tool.I would recommend it to anyone!
5	1360108800	After many years of back pain and troubles, the Spoonk Accupuncture Mat has given me the relief from pain I need.  I sleep better and feel better each morning than I have for a long, long time!!!Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag
4	1360022400	Helps greatly with getting to sleep, but don't rollover on it and sleep on you side.  I needed to get a massage I was uncomfortble for a while due to this minor back strain.
3	1360022400	After seeing this on Dr Oz I bought it because I have chronic fatigue/fibromyalgia and I was hoping it would help boost my energy but it hasn't.  I do like how it helps take tension out of my back and I use it occasionally for that purpose.
5	1360022400	I bought this for my daughter who suffers from RA, fibromyalgia and Lupus. Despite taking numerous medications a day for pain relief she has found that  the Spoonk mat has given her great relief from the very first use. As a mother you hate to see you children in pain, even if they are adults. For the first time in years she has been able to enjoy several hours of uninterrupted while lying on her Accupressure Massage Mat. Thank you for making such a wonderful product. I would highly recommend it to anyone who suffers with back pain!!
5	1359936000	I was unsure what to expect.  I'll admit I've only used it minimal times so far each time has been easier to do.  It definitely appears to do what it says it will.  The improved blood circulation in the area that pressured was applied is clearly evident.
2	1359936000	Gifted this to sis -- hoping for an ingenious solution to her neck arthritis. She said it was way to sharp (she scraped her elbow on the item by accident) and she worried her pets would step on by accident and injure themselves.  In short, the product couldn't work for her as it was just too dangerous.
5	1359936000	I bought one for my husband and one for my daughter (who I thought would never use it-she loves it! It helps her in between chiro visits). I tried the mat myself when I had a headache and neck pain all day, I could tell it was going to be a full blown migraine by the end of the day. Twice now I have used this mat and both times any signs or symptoms of what I thought was going to be a migraine- diminished, absolutely diminished. This mat is amazing!
5	1359849600	This mat has helped me so much in many ways.  In October, 2012 I started experiencing severe lower back pain.  I've had upper and mid back issues for awhile, but this lower back problem was new and nothing helped to alleviate it.  I have had trouble with ovarian cysts for several years, but they never have caused this type of back pain until now.  I found out in December that I have 4 large cysts, which were most likely causing the lower back pain.  I was to be re-checked in one month and if the cysts weren't smaller or gone I may have to have them surgically removed.I began using the Spoonk acupressure mat daily beginning on January 4th.  My back pain was so much better within the first 15 minutes on the mat.  The mat was a little uncomfortable initially, but after a few minutes it really does ease and then it feels good.  I do one 15 minute session on the lower and mid back and then I move it up and do another session on my neck, upper, and mid back.  I also do a few minutes on each side for my hips and tight IT bands.  I only do 5 minutes on each hip, but that seems to be all I need for relief.  All of the pain I was having is very minimal now...sometimes completely nonexistent and for the past 3 weeks I've been able to maintain 5 intense workouts a week (the mat really helps with muscle soreness, too).However, the best part of using the mat is that when I went to my doctor on January 21st to have the cysts rechecked, one was gone and the remaining 3 are much smaller.  The ONLY thing I did between my two doctor appointments was use the Spoonk mat.  I told my doctor what I was using and she said to definitely keep using it.  Honestly, it has been an amazing find for me and I am so grateful for it.  Oh, and it helps with sleep, as well.  I find that it really relaxes me and helps me fall asleep much more quickly.
4	1359849600	Bought this after so many positive reviews.... and have only been using it a few days.  It is exactly how it is described in the product description and how others have described it.  The key is to breathe deep for the first 2-3 minutes after laying on it, then it actually becomes 'comfortable' (in fact, I fell asleep on it the other night!)  I haven't felt any different in my shoulder pain or tightness (yet) or had better sleep, but I'm hoping that with regular use, I'll start reaping the benefits.
5	1359849600	I recently had slipped on the ice and then a week later been injured at work resulting in a broken tailbone.  I have had some severe lower back pain a lot of the time so I was searching for an item to massage my back when I came across this product.  I noticed the very high number of 5 star reviews which is quite rare.  I read through and noticed a lot of people had back pain and problems sleeping.  I thought maybe a product of this sort may assist me rather than a massaging chair or something of the sort so I decided to order it.I was a little scared to try it out based on the fact that the little pickers are so sharp when I pulled it out of the bag so I waited until night-time.  After situating it on my bed, I left a very thin t-shirt on due to having psoriasis on my back.  I laid down and realized that it truly didn't bother me so decided to do away with the t-shirt.  I laid down and looked at the clock thinking I would go with the 10 minute session as is suggested in the instructions.  I actually ended up falling asleep on the mat (which I wouldn't suggest).  I decided perhaps my alarm should be set in the future.  I found it very odd that I fell asleep considering I wasn't tired at all when I laid down.  I ended up waking up in the same position an hour later and got off the mat and put it away.  The feeling on my back was similar to a bad sunburn.  I believe this was due to it being my first experience on the mat and the length of time I was on it.The next morning I decided to try the energy enhancing instructions that are included.  I laid on my back for 10 minutes and fell asleep (again!) but was smart enough to set an alarm this time.  Then, I laid on my stomach for 10 minutes on my stomach.  I didn't feel the same amount of relaxation on my stomach due to it being so sensitive and I figure that will come over time.  I also laid on my face on the mat for 5 minutes per side (which left a great set of marks on it for 10-15 minutes afterwards lol).  I definitely did notice that I did a lot more after using the mat in the morning.  I was more energetic and got a lot more accomplished throughout my day.I find that the mat definitely is very relaxing and refreshing.  I did not receive a pamphlet in my box stating that I would be getting anything for free for a 5 star review, just FYI.  I noticed that some people stated that they had.  I wanted to ensure that if you are reading my review that this is an honest and sincere review.I had noticed that my lower back had not hurt as much and my sleep was not interrupted as it usually is.  I have since let my mother use my mat because she has had a lot of stomach/ digestive issues that interrupt her sleep.  I felt that maybe the mat would help her so I wanted her to try it out.  I definitely can't wait to get it back though because I did find the few days I had it I felt much better!
5	1359849600	My youngest is six, and my mom is the oldest at 66, and they and everyone in between love this product.  Not only do we use it on the floor and on the bed, but we can put it behind our backs when we're sitting down.When you first touch the little spikes, it seems like there's no way you'd be able to stand to actually put pressure on it, but when you lie down on the mat, they all just work together for one effect, no pin pricks.  It's hard to describe how you will feel when you get up.  While I was lying down, it felt good and even relaxing, but I noticed the effects the most when I sat back up.  I at once felt both energized and relaxed, which sounds strange, but is true.  If I stay lying down, I am able to just fall asleep; if I stand up afterward, I get like a second wind.  It sounds funny, I know, and I didn't understand why the instructions said it is good as part of a wake-up regimen as well as a pre-bedtime relaxer.  Now I know.I bought this for a present for my husband, and now others want their own when their birthdays come around.  You must try it to see how well it works.
5	1359763200	bought myself a spoonk mat for tension in my shoulders and neck - i lay on it every night for 10-15 minutes - AMAZING! it completely relaxes you and helps you sleep better as well. I loved it so much i bought my dad and brother one too!
5	1359676800	I tried the massage mat after reading all of the five star reviews!  I was a little nervous at first and started out sitting with the mat on my couch.  I have now moved on to the floor with a pillow, it is wonderful.  Do not be afraid, be pain free!!!  I fell asleep on the mat last night, you would not think you could sleep on hundred's of hard plastic spikes but it is that relaxing and I have began to sleep all night again without waking with back pain and this is only day three!
5	1359676800	I'm so glad I ordered it. I searched the internet for over two hours -- reading lots of customer reviews -- before deciding on the Spoonk. I'd never tried an acupressure mat before.  (The Spoonk seemed to have consistently high ratings and was affordable to me.) Although there may be others out there that are just as good, or possibly even better, all I can say, from my limited experience, is that this mat is amazing. Who'd ever guess that something, so simple, could deliver so many good resultts?The first time I tried it, I wore a thin T-shirt...and soon felt extremely relaxed. The second time I used the mat, I went bare-skinned. It hurt, but in a good way, and the discomfort went away very quickly. Within about 20 minutes, I felt this amazing, warm rush, over my entire body, but especially in the area of my head and back. Truly delicious! Blissful.These days, it's like I can't be without this mat. Every night I lie down on it at bed time. It feels so good to just lie there under the sheets. (My bed is quite firm.) Sooner or later, I usually feel the warm rush I already described, but even if I don't experience that particular sensation, I always feel deeply relaxed. At some point - usually after abour a half hour -- I'll notice that I've been drifting off to sleep. I'll sit up, pull out the mat, pull on my pajama top, lie down again, and  ZZZZZZZZZZZ ZZZZZZZZZZ.There's only one possible draw back I can think of: One time I slept so soundly, right from the get go, that I woke up hours later, with the mat still under me! Ouch! (My back definitely did not like that.) So... now, (if I'm so extremely tired that I think something like that might happen again,) I put on a thin T-shirt before lying down on the mat. Just to be on the safe side.)
5	1359676800	When I first read about this item, I was sceptical then when I got it in the mail and started using it. It worked wonders for me.  It takes a little getting used to when you first lie on it, but your body adjusts itself and even after just 5 minutes of use, it feels like you've had a 60 minute back massage.  I personnally love standing on it and how it feels under my feet after a long day. It truly helps circulate the blood flow in my body and helps relieve the pain and tiredness I build up during the day. Its the perfect item to help you unwind for a good night sleep ever night. I truly reccomend it to everyone! It's great!
5	1359590400	I bought this as a gift and although the person I bought it for hasn't used it yet :( I have been enjoying the benefits of this mat quite a bit! It really does help you relax and release tension. I love it!
4	1359590400	This mat was somewhat scary at first and it took some getting used to, but I really like it.  I can't use it on my bare back, but with a thin top, it works great.  I also stand on it and that took some getting used to, but stimulates the pressure points on my feet.  Recommend you try it out!
5	1359504000	I got this product about a month ago, and I've waited to review it so I could really gather my feelings for the Spoonk.Initially, it is terrifying seeing all of those thousands of little spikes staring at you.  I will be honest, it hurts terribly when you first lay on it...just get through the first 5 minutes or so and it will be so worth it.  When I first started to use it, I would use one of those sound machine apps on my phone to play some tranquil music and ease the mind away from the pain.  Now I use it in bed, which is a little less intense than on the floor, plus I can be under the covers, hiding from the cold air.  Laying on the mat now hardly hurts (unless I move carelessly, causing the spikes to scratch my skin); however, getting off of the mat is painful, but that goes away quickly.I literally use it before bed every night.  Several times I have even fallen asleep on it.  I definitely think that  helps me sleep more soundly through the night.I moved houses this past weekend, which was the true test.  I had very little back pain after laying on the mat.I have recommended this to so many friends and family, and for the price on Amazon, plus the 30 day guarantee, it's silly to pass that up, especially if you have issues with back pain or sleeplessness.
5	1359504000	Wow, the Spoonk is intense the first time you lay on it! Be forewarned that it is going to take you a little while to get used to it. The first time I tried, I wasn't sure I would be using it again directly against my skin and could only handle a couple of minutes. I tried again with my t-shirt on but felt nothing at all doing that.My wife managed much better than I, so my pride being hurt, I decided to give it another try. The second time, while still intense, was much more manageable, and I spent 15-20 minutes on it. Once you get used to it, it's not a problem, but you do still need to be careful when getting up as you don't want to drag yourself across the spines!My wife uses this every night before she goes to bed, and if I'm feeling tense, it definitely helps relax me. I haven't tried it yet when my shoulders are in knots, so I'm interested to see how it does there, but it's definitely a nice way to wind down - just be prepared to have an adjustment period initially.
5	1359504000	I am very satisfied with the Spoonk mat. It is wonderful for any time you feel a bit of muscle tension, or if you need to wind down before going to sleep, or just when you wake up in the morning to help energize and wake you up. It is a high quality great product I recommend to anyone!
5	1359504000	I was surprised at just how painful it was to lay down on this mat with my bare skin. I have laid on it a few times to help alleviate the postpartum backaches that I've been experiencing; it really is relaxing after the initial shock of the spikes in your skin. I enjoy laying on it and rolling my back a bit to help with different problematic areas of my back. As with the start, it is painful to get off of the mat at the very end (I actually have had my husband assist with pulling the mat from under me so I don't have to roll off of it on my own). Despite that, I think the mat is great and I will continue to use it for the overall benefits and hope that it will become easier with time.
5	1359504000	I was searching for a product to help alleviate lower back when I stumbled across a picture of a Spoonk Mat.  After reading the reviews I decided it worth trying. It took about 3 minutes or so to get used to the sensation but once I did, I felt completely relaxed. And after using it for only a few times, my back pain went away.  Being an extreme commuter (68 miles each way) , I spend way too many hours sitting in the car. I'm convinced the Spoonk Mat was what finally did the trick to loosen up those tight and sore back muscles. After sharing my story with a co-worker, she purchased a mat for herself and she too is extremely happy with the results. I would recommend this product for anyone looking for a natural way to alleviate pain, de-stress, and relax.
5	1359417600	Wow! If you write a 5 star review you'll get another travel size Spoonk Mat FREE OF CHARGE!Well, this Spoonk Mat is very beneficial already with all these free gifts! It's great for my back, fantastic for my feet and a great warm up before my S&M; games. Thank you so much and keep up the good, healthy ideas!
5	1359331200	I received the Spoonk mat as a gift, and what a wonderful gift it has turned out to be!  Working at a computer all day every day takes a toll on the back and neck and I have had massage and acupuncture for relief. This mat feels like a combination of both treatments and it is remarkable how relaxing it is! The acupressure spikes take some getting used to, and at first they feel sharp and almost painful, but this doesn't last long. Very soon after laying on the mat, I find my muscles releasing and tension easing and I almost have a feeling of weightlessness. I have been very happy with the results and I highly recommend this product to anyone for help with muscle tension, stress relief or to aid sleep.
5	1359244800	Do you ever wish you could find a miracle drug that would help you relax, not be bad for your body in the long run and be affordable on just about any budget?  Well, probably it doesn't exist, but this is the next best thing I think.  Now, I will admit after purchasing this product, I did receive a note that a free gift would be sent if I gave a 5 star review and I thought to my self right away "What if this product really isn't that great, but it received a lot of 5 star reviews because of the free gift?"  But the thing is, why would a person want the free gift if it wasn't really good?  Believe me, if this product isn't great, you're not going to want another one.  Who wants to have a thorny mat lying around that you're not going to use?  Not me!Well anyway, here's my experience:  I took the mat out of the plastic and immediately my children just had to try it out!  It looked like so much fun to them. I don't know why.  My daughter (who is 7) stepped on it with socks on and at first she said "Ouch!"  But I told her that it said it would hurt at first then feel good so she stayed on. After about 2 minutes she decided she liked it a lot.  I tried it and felt the sensation of a thousand tiny hands massaging and stimulating my feet.  It really is a very unique experience.  Then at night I used it to sleep on to relax.  I have to be honest, it hurt bad enough I wanted to scream at first and you really do wonder if you're bleeding, but here's a trick:  If you feel like it hurts too much, dig in harder then let up.  It usually will feel much better.  You will also notice there are certain spots that feel a little too sensitive or are receiving too much pressure.  Find a way to take the pressure off of those spots and it much better.So, how does the Spoonk work for me? Like with anything you have to give it several days before you really know how well it's going to work. I have been using mine for a month now when ever I feel like I need to relax or will have to deal with having less hours of sleep. I will tell you it does what I want it to.  When I use the Spoonk mat at bed time I will fall asleep on it for a while until I wake up and take it out from under me.  I wake up in the morning feeling as if my sleep was maximized for lack of a better word.  I usually need 8 hours of sleep each night and on a night when I only have 6 hours to sleep before work where I use the Spook mat, I can honestly say I usually feel better when I wake up than if I actually got the 8 hours.  I have found for me though, it loses some of it's goodness if I use it every night, so I only use it on nights where I feel I really need it. If I compare the Spoonk mat to other things I will use to help me sleep or relax like alcohol, melatonin, valerian root, Chamomile tea or some other sleepy tea, it out shines them every time.  So there you have it, reusable relaxation!
5	1359244800	I purchased theCotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bagright before the holidays. While on vacation, I brought the Spoonk with me and it really allowed me to relax during the chaos of the holiday parties, travel and gift giving. I even took it with me on a long car ride and on the plane. It's the first time on both modes of transportation where I didn't feel restless, like I needed to get up and stretch. I just let myself sink into the acupressure points! Thanks Spoonk! I love it and after raving about it over the holidays have gotten two of my friends to purchase their own!
5	1359244800	It was a bit painful at the beginning - I did not follow the guidelines and laid down on it without using any layers - but the pain goes away and it actually feels great 2 minutes into it. After the first day you get used to the feeling. It does relax the muscles. Specifically, it really helps with sore muscles around the shoulder blades. I'm not sure if the long-term use is supposed to reduce the pain or merely take it away when it's present.
4	1359244800	Based on a recommendation from a friend I purchased the mat to give a friend  suffering from back pain.She was so pleased  with the mat she convinced me I needed one.  It packs well in a suitcase  and hasbecome my best friend after spending all day in a car or airplane.
5	1359158400	I stumbled across the Spoonk mat while looking for massage products to help with muscle soreness in between chiropractor/massage therapy visits. I see professionals for this on a weekly basis because of the work and lifestyle I lead. As a professional hoof trimmer I spend a lot of time bent over and working on a horse's foot that might be leaning on me or moving around. All of this can be hard on the back. I also practice a martial art called aikido in which I an often thrown hard across and to the ground, or find myself contorted into some crazy positions in joint locks. I ride horses as well and also work part time in a restaurant where I am on my feet on a hard floor for 5-6 hours at a time. All of this leads to sore lower back muscles and knots in shoulders and calves. In particular I have been dealing with chronic lower back pain for over a year that seems to be cause by tense tight muscles.After reading a lot of the reviews including the very few single star ones I decided to try it. They way I figured it if over 400 people were that keen to get a free mat by posting a review they must not hate it. Why would anyone want something they dislike for free enough to go to the effort of posting a review? So I ordered the Blue one.My Mat arrived in very short order. Several days before I expected since I had chosen the free shipping option. It always impresses me when this happens as often a seller on here will wait as long as possible to ship a item that would otherwise arrive quickly, just because they have two weeks in which to complete the transaction. To me this sort of thing shows a lack of real concern for the customer. Spoonk's prompt delivery impressed me.When I first pulled it (gingerly) out of the box I thought ,"now what have I gotten myself into? This thing bites!" The spikes are very sharp and the mat needs to be handled with care. It does look a little scary on first introduction.When I first Attempted to try it it was shockingly painful. I though "well, I think I just wasted $40." But I hate to waste money since I don't have very much to begin with so I put on a light shirt and tried again. With the shirt on it really did not feel like anything much. So I decided to bite the bullet and just lay down on it bare skinned and... breathe.Major tip on this thing. BREATHE. Long, deep slow breaths in and out. It helps. For the first three minutes my back was on fire. Breathe, breathe, breathe keep it slow and long. Then it started to dull down to a warm prickly feeling. I started with a 10 minute session as suggested. Moved to 15 minutes the next day and by day 3 was ding 15-20 minutes at a time. Now I do 20-30 when I can. I am now comfortable enough that I can move around and adjust my position or push into the mat in areas where I want more pressure and it is not uncomfortable. I fact it kind of feels good. Keeping a clock within sight so you know how long it has been helps a lot. those first three minutes can seem like an eternity at first. Trust me the last ten go by too fast.Getting back up off of it does hurt some. Again breathe. Take a deep breath in, and as you get up let it out forcefully. It helps a lot. and the discomfort only lasts a second or two. Your back will continue to feel warm for quite some time after. It's not any more unpleasant than how you feel if you have been i the sun for a long time enough to get a minor sunburn. I also have had a persistent knot in my right shoulder for several months, that has gone away.I have also used the Spoonk mat on my calves and feet with good results. I especially like t stand on it for 5 minutes in the morning before going to work.
5	1359158400	The spoonk mat does a great job of warming your body up and produces a relaxing state. I have relieved neck and back pain with my spoonk. Laying bare on the mat is the best way to achieve results. I have also heard you are able to sleep directly on the mat to receive good sleep results. Trying that tonight. The mat doesn't feel pleasant at first.
5	1359072000	I was skeptical but it works.  I stood on the mat for five minutes and it did hurt a bit but it was tolerable.  Afterwards, my feet felt great.  Can't wait to keep using this.  My friend has one and swears by it - hence my purchase.
5	1359072000	I bought this for my husband, who has been experiencing a prolonged stressful situation.  After the first week of use, I noticed a positive change in his behavior and I could even see, in his face, how much more relaxed he was.  The mat has been one of the best purchases we have made for our well being.
5	1358985600	I first got this for my sister then for myself because she raved about it so much. This thing really works, I can even do shorter 5 minute sessions that get all those knots out and just take the pain away. Makes me feel normal again. Thanks!
5	1358985600	So i just got my mat in and at first was a little worried about lying down on those points haha. when i first lied down on it, i gotta admit was alittle sore but after the 5 minutes like the instructions stated i felt a state of relaxation that was surprising, im sure once my body adjust to it even more it will be a fantastic thing to use to start and end my day!!!
5	1358899200	I have been laying on my new Spoonk mat for about 20 minutes every night before I go to sleep.  I've been falling asleep faster and sleeping much longer than I did before I got the Spoonk mat.  Great quality product and great seller!
5	1358899200	OK I have only written like two reviews ever, but I had to share this. I have never tried anything like this before but saw this on Dr. Oz. I have always had trouble sleeping and also with anxiety and stress. I was a little hesitant because some people on here said it hurt. HUH??! First I tested it with my feet. It felt like a foot massage (good). Then I stood on it with socks on with my full body weight. It didn't hurt at all (again felt nice like a massage). Then my 15 year old wanted to try it. He stood on it and said the same thing that it didn't hurt at all and said &#34;OMG that feels great&#34;. So then I lay on it for about 7-8 minutes (again didn't hurt at all). After 5 minutes my eyes started closing and my entire body felt completely relaxed. I didn't want to get up! When I finally did get up I felt like I had had a full body massage. I was so relaxed I was ready for bed! lol Unlike others, who said they got some free product for writing a review, I haven't even looked at the stuff that came with it so I don't know if that came with it or not. I was just so excited that I wanted to share it with everyone and just posted about it on my FB page. ORDER ONE NOW!!!
5	1358899200	I received the Spoonk mat as a Christmas gift.  I love it. The pressure of the mat is very relaxing and I am hoping that it relieves some of my sciatica pain in my leg.  It doesn't appear to be very friendly to the touch but feels amazing when used."
5	1358899200	This has been a fantastic addition to my recovery/regeneration trainiing routine as a basketball player - it hurts so good!  The first part is intense, but you make it through that and its golden!  It has replaced a good deal of the icing I previously had been doing for a flared up low back. Great quality, would recommend to a friend, and my kids love to say the word "spoonk"!
5	1358899200	First, let me say I never write reviews so this must be one great product!  I have a daughter who was diagnosed with a severely pulled muscle in her back in the fall of 2011.  She went through 6 weeks of physical therapy and no other activity and felt better for a year.  In the fall of 2012, she broke her hip and once again was out of all activity for 6 weeks.  When she finally started playing sports again, her back started killing her due to the inactivity.  We were about to go the physical therapy route again but she was so upset because she knew she would miss her entire basketball season.  I had found this product on Amazon and had ordered it for her for Christmas thinking after all the positive reviews, I'd give it a try.  I seriously thought this would be the joke of Christmas and we would be laughing years from now about "remember the year Mom gave me the torture device for Christmas"!!  Well, boy was I wrong!!  After a really strenous basketball game at the beginning of December, my daughter came home in tears because her back was killing her.  I had this sitting in the basement to wrap and opted to go ahead and give it to her to see if it would provide any relief.  I didn't see the point in making her wait three more weeks till Christmas if this would help at all.  First, she looked at me like I was crazy.  Then she put it on her bed and laid down. She said the same thing as all the other reviews - hurts at first, intense heat for several minutes, etc.  But she laid on it for 20 minutes (without a shirt).  When she got up, she immediately twisted and said "I can actually move this direction!"  She hadn't been able to twist her back comfortably in weeks!  She noticed immediate improvement and loved it so much that she woke up every morning for a week and laid on it before school!  Now her back still flairs up , but she loves this mat!!!  So..what's good for daughter has to be good for mom, right?  Well I tried it too.  First time I put it on the floor and laid on it without a shirt.  I truly thought I was going to die for about the first 3-4 minutes.  It is painful and you do feel extreme heat radiating through your entire body.  However, I gritted my teeth and made myself lay there.  After about 10 minutes, I was completely relaxed and couldn't keep my eyes open.  When I got up after 20 minutes, the pain that I had had for weeks in the lower part of my back was gone!  I felt so much better and I was so relaxed!!!  I can't begin to tell you how much I love this product.  Well...actually I can.  After my daughter and I fought over who got to use the mat for a month, I finally bought a second one for our household!  We are the proud owners of the Pagoda Blue and Magenta mats and both work wonderfully!  I lay on my mat every night before I go to bed.  It relaxes me and puts me to sleep.  I wouldn't give these mats up for anything!  Thanks Spoonk!
3	1358812800	I like it , but it does take some getting used to.  The acupressure points are very &#34;pointy&#34;.  I need to have something between me and the pad.  My husband goes right to sleep on his.
5	1358812800	I've had the mat for 4 weeks and it's a part of my daily routine.  Great after a workout - back, chest, calves and feet - all feel great afterward.  Actually bought 8 more and have been giving them to friends & family!
5	1358726400	It isexactly what I expected it to be and I am using it everyday. Very nice product to help keep me healthy
5	1358640000	I'm skeptical by nature, but have always wanted to try acupressure because of all the great things I've heard.  Now, I can honestly say there's something definitely to it.  I'v been suffering from upper back and shoulder pain for the past year and a half, resorting to regular massages to temporarily alleviate the pain.  Using the Spoonk mat is much more convenient, economical, and the results are very surprising.  I've coupled it with a yoga and meditation session I do every morning.  Toward the end of my morning ritual I lay it on my yoga mat and proceed with relaxation, including bridge and corpse poses. I highly recommend anyone experiencing back pain to try it.Namaste,MP
5	1358640000	I was gifted this mat having never heard about this. I can say after using for months that it helps a great deal especially my lower back and relieve my headaches. A plus is the materials used are organic. Its slightly painful at first but if you push through it your skin gets used to it.
4	1358553600	The biggest problem with this mat is that I'm not finding enough time to use it.  IT takes a little getting used to, but once you let your body ease in to it and really relax it starts doing its work.  I enjoy feeling my body's reaction to it fist a little fight then letting go and then the relaxed feeling of my heart working.  After, my whole body feels alive and invigorated for the rest of the day.
4	1358467200	Everyone is right - hurts  like the blazes when you first lie on it. but then that goes away and  you feel good. i thought i'd work up to the 20 minutes but it felt so good i've been doing 20 mins each time. i'm bad about it - too much going on but when i did it several days in a row, i DID sleep better (my reason for having it, though it was a gift from my daughter). I would recommend this.my problem with it is i think you are supposed to do front and back. but the instructions say dont use on chest or something like that (dont have it in front of me). but then how do you do it on your stomach? so i'm just doing back. we are going away for a week and due to space i cant take it with me but it'd be so nice to be able to, and use it every night to see if the better sleep was the accupressure or not. i think it was.anyway, i would recommend you try this. its inexpensive enough to give it a go - and give it a chance, cause the look of your skin when you get up and the pain when you first lay down, do take getting used to. worth it thouh.
5	1358467200	I have to say that I'm not the type to write many reviews so please take this for what it's worth.  I've been experiencing back pain for about a year now and saw an acupuncturist/chiropractor for about 4 months with much improved results.  That said- I feel like the improvements stopped after a certain point, and I was still left with recurring pain, that I thought I would just have to live with.I'm happy to say that since I've received the spoonk, and (2 other amazon products- 1) Genuine Corflex Medic Air Back Pillow, 2) Ironman LX300 Inversion Therapy Table), I feel like I'm well on my way to a full recovery.I strained my back just the other day wrestling with the kids and thought - great here we go again. I spent about 30 minutes on my back and another 15 minutes on my side (spoonking) and the next day I couldn't even tell I hurt myself.Reality- It does hurt for about the first 3 to 5 minutes. Relax, breathe slowly and deal with it.  After that-your back feels warm and the pain goes away.  Try it for at least 1 week before making your decision as I did, and you'll be incredibly glad you persevered.I've been spoonking almost daily for 2 weeks and absolutely would not want to be without it.If you've been dealing with any type of ongoing back pain- just do it.  I know I've already convinced 2 friends they need to start spoonkn' too. ;)
1	1358467200	If you really want to get in touch with your inner masochist, this is the product for you! I opened the package after returning from jogging, slid my hand into the box and literally shredded my thumb and forefinger on the tines of the Spoonk and I hadn't even removed it yet! After bandaging both fingers, I gingerly lifted it out, laid it on the floor and gently pressed my palm on it and I honestly had to check to be sure I hadn't perforated it, because it felt like a pin cushion. The design team for this thing must have included Josef Mengele, Klaus Barbie and Herman Goring.I would serious urge anyone with small children or pets to exercise extraordinary caution with this product. Mine is on its way back to Amazon.
5	1358380800	I had my husband get this for me for Christmas and I use it every night now. I was skeptical at first and thought it would be painful but could barely tell after the first few times. Helps me fall asleep and get relaxed before bed. Also am not getting as many headaches as before.
5	1358380800	I have MS and a fair amount of stress and anxiety that disrupts my sleep. I got the Spoonk mat and began using it before bed each night. It was a slow build-up of time, and the first day I couldn't take more than 5 minutes. But starting with the first use, I began falling into a quick, deep sleep each night that leaves me feeling more refreshed than I have in years. I have vivid dreams, wake up happy, and can now comfortably spend approx 30 min meditating on my Spoonk mat each night...and I sometimes even drift to sleep on it! This was money well-spent...no question!!!
2	1358380800	I have yet to get to the poitn where this is beneficial. The polastic points are so sharp that I have scraped my skin.
5	1358294400	I purchased this product as a late Christmas gift for my wife. She has a shoulder that aches all of the time and also some lower back issues. I ordered this product because 371 reviews were all 5 stars so I took a chance. We received it on Christmas Eve and have used it pretty much every day since, including myself. It did take a couple of times to get used to it but after that it became very comfortable and relaxing. I usually fall asleep while lying on it. My wife raves about the fact that it has given her relief where other devices haven't. Anyways, they do offer you an incentive gift to give it a 5 star rating but even without the incentive I still give it five stars. The carry bag that comes with the Spoonk is nice to have. I highly recommend it...Tom
5	1358294400	I think I'm addicted! The Spoonk mat is exactly as it is described. The mat is easy to use and deeply relaxing. I have used it for 20-30 minutes each time, sometimes just laying on my back as the instructions explain, and sometimes targeting muscle groups that are tense or hurting. I have a few &#34;trouble spots&#34; from long-ago injuries, and these have never felt better. The only warning I have is that it is not for the faint at heart. The sensations in the first few minutes are intense, even a little painful, the first few times using it. But this has gotten better as I use it more often, and the deep-muscle relaxation makes it worth it. My husband has started using it at night to relax before sleeping as well - we may have to get another one if it gets too hard to share! I would definitely recommend this to any one looking for a new &#34;healthy habit.&#34;
5	1358294400	I've purchased things in the past with great reviews and they've turned out to be duds. This is not one of them! I have a chronic, progressive joint condition and this acupressure mat is one of the best therapies for me. It relieves headaches and osteoarthritis pain just as well as medication. It's so easy to use and portable! It's great for those times when you just need to relax and center yourself. I highly recommend this product to anyone, but especially those with chronic pain.
5	1358294400	I ordered two mats, one for myself and one for my daughter and we've had them for a couple of weeks now. I really do love mine. I have a pretty high pain threshold so I went from two 5 minute sessions straight into 20 - 40 minutes. I even roll on it a little bit because I love the sensation. My daughter said she's still building up so it's a personal thing.I put my meditation on then use it before I fall asleep at night - and pull it out when I wake up from rolling on it, but I'm relaxed so I go right back off to sleep. In the morning I set my alarm early, put another meditation on then lay on my back, then my stomach and 5 minutes each side of my face (I cover it with a thin cloth for my face) and I massage my hands into it at that time too - then I feel really vibrant getting out of bed and starting my day.During the day I leave it on the floor in my bathroom and wearing a pair of socks I just stand on it whenever I'm at the sink which makes me feel like I'm giving myself an extra boost.I think the colors and pattern are great. I haven't seen other brands but everyone seemed to say the others didn't compare for quality and I'm very happy with the price and quality of mine - I like to buy right and buy once.It takes no extra time because I lay in bed anyway, I feel relaxed at night and vibrant in the morning. I recommend this product!
4	1358294400	After reading the reviews I was expecting something really exciting. No thrill. Easy to use and care for. It is a mat with plastic protruding spiked spirals that are supposed to help relax your muscles. It's totally up to your body and condition if it works.
5	1358208000	After dealing with high blood pressure and chest pains from a neck injury and high-stress work, this mat helps me to relax and rejuvenate. I had severe neck and shoulder pain along with muscle spasms. I have been going to a chiropractor and therapist for years with little or no relieve. I workout regularly as the chiropractor and massage therapist recommend which sometimes seemed to slowly improve my issues.While I was search for ways to regain my health, my niece recommended to try this acupressure mat. It looked very interesting, so I gave it a try. The first time I used it was on my back, directly on the skin. After about five minutes I overcame a wonderful relaxing feeling. It gave me a chance to relax and forget my pain. I hope it will also help lower my blood pressure since it is aggravated by stress. There is no doubt that I feel more relaxed after using  this mat than before.I have had the mat for only a few weeks, and keep looking forward to use it on my neck and back. I will make this a permanent addition to my neck and back pain prevention. This is something I would highly recommend for anybody with health issues related to stress and sleep disorders, such as high blood pressure. I really like it!
5	1358208000	i do a lot of research before before buying anything. i also read a lot of customer reviews for all the products i purchase, however, for this particular product i was convinced by one of my friends as he they preached their testimonials i had to try it out. i was a little hesitant at first after reading about how painful it could be, but i thought it was rather more relaxing than anything else. as soon as i rested on top of the mat i instantly felt relaxation and the tension in my shoulders/neck and upper back disappear. i highly recommend this product to everyone!
5	1358208000	I decided to get a spook mat because I would get random back aches a few times a week when I was sitting at work.  The spook mat feels uncomfortable for 3 minutes and then you start to be overwhelmed with euphoria and relaxation.  The spook mat helped me sleep throughout the entire night without waking up.  You could use the mat first thing in the morning to help your circulation and increase your energy.  Or you could use it at night to release the day.  I find it best to listen to relaxing music when on the mat.  It not only helps you get over the first 3 minutes but it will give your mental health a boost as well. Relax your mind and enjoy the healing!
5	1358121600	I have had this awesome mat for a few weeks and I absolutely love it!! I had seen it before in Whole Foods but was turned off by the price and the sharpness of the plastic spikes when I touched them. I could not imagine actually laying on that thing-it seemed way too painful! When I got my Spoonk mat from Amazon (at a much cheaper price than health stores) I tried it out that night and the experience was definitely unique. To be honest, it does feel uncomfortable/hurt a bit the first few times you use it, but that discomfort does go away in about 5 mins or so and it is replaced with a tingly-warm feeling in the skin that is in direct contact with the mat. The best feeling however, comes AFTER you get up off the mat--I felt soooo deeply relaxed and just really inexplicably happy! It helps me to fall asleep at night when I just can't seem to wind down and go to sleep, and it helps energize when used in the mornings. I LOVE THIS MAT and I can't imagine going a day without using it now that I own it. Amazon has the best prices on it too!!
5	1358121600	I have trouble sleeping on my ship and at home. I have tried melatonin but in the morning Im still tired and sluggish . I use the spoonk for 30 minutes every night on my back I can honestly say it is the only sleep aid that works. I fall asleep right after using it. The spoonk is the best buy on Amazon!
5	1358121600	I have an area of nerve damage on my back that results in constant itching, burning and tingling.  After using the mat for only two days, I have experienced a reduction in the irritation and my skin is beginning to heal!  Great gift from my family!
5	1358121600	This mat is well made.  I like how it feels on my back as long as I don't move around on it. It could take some getting used to, I suppose, because it's pretty intense without any fabric in between the points and your skin.  Not the same feeling as having had a massage, but definitely feels like it's doing some good. Pretty color blue too!
5	1358035200	When my girlfriend gave me this for Christmas, I was skeptical. Everyone in the room thought it was a little weird. But it works! I tried it wearing a t-shirt first, and the pain described really wasn't what I experienced. When I used it on bare skin however, I knew what they were talking about. But just like other reviewers I've gotten great results! My back feels better than it has in years. Highly recommend!
5	1358035200	The acupressure mat has been wonderful in relieving my tense muscles. I like it on my shoulders and my feet where i get the most tension. It takes a little getting used to but once you are comfortable with the sensation it really is nice.
5	1358035200	I bought this to see if it would help bursitis in my shoulder and it seems to be working because i have not taken any mobic since i have been laying on the mat. It works great in a reclining chair too. I like it so much i bought another one for a gift....
5	1357948800	I find the mat extremely relaxing and helpful.  I have looked at the videos on the website and informed myself.  I have almost  fallen asleep on it.  At first, I couldn't believe that I would even be able to put my body on it at all, but now I look forward to it.  I first tried it  on the floor and it was too much pressure (since I wasn't familiar with it), but using it on the bed is great.  My digestion has been improved, as well as my lower back pain. I'm very satisfied with my purchase and would buy one again!
5	1357948800	I was skeptical at first but once i used it, its probably the best i have ever had. With lots of back pain and finding tough to sleep, i used this 20 minutes before i get to bed, wow i went to sleep right away. I always have pains in my right calf, i tried massage which helps but takes time, applied pain relievers but i tried this basically put both of my calves on the spoonk mat, left it for 15 mins and what a relief, you can immediately sense the pain reduced, depending on how severe the pain is it will either subside or completely vanish.
5	1357948800	I am so happy I found this on Amazon. I have back issues and ever since I have been using it  - I find I have more energy during the day and my back pain feels better.  It is a really great product! thank you! &#9829; I bought one for me and one for a gift. &#9829;
5	1357862400	This mat is great. It helps relieve my lower back aches, i have restless leg and it helps relieve that as well I just focus the mat on my lower back and buttocks area.  I fall asleep on it all the time. It also seems to help lower my blood pressure. I will take my blood pressure with my monitor and then lay on the mat for at least 10 minutes and take another reading and it has gone down. FYI just be careful getting up off it if you swing your arms back to fast you may scrap your elbows.
5	1357862400	I love this mat. It arrived very quickly. When I removed it from the box, it was a little prickly on my hands, but that is not a problem once you have it out of the plastic because you can hold it from the edges. The padding is a nice thickness. The travel bag is great to keep it rolled up in and away from my kids. I have had this for only a few days and I have already used it several times. As soon as it arrived, I put it against the back of my chair and the pressure of leaning back on it was just the thing to relieve the tightness in my stressed out shoulders. What a blessing!  It has also been doing wonders to relieve the lower back pain of menstral cramps. It comes with a nice little usage and care card attached to the travel bag. It's great that you can vary the level of pressure by adjusting the level of your clothes. All in all, I'm very pleased with this purchase and it will likely save me many tension headaches and many doses of pain killers. Thank you Spoonk!
5	1357862400	I purchased this for my husband in hopes that it would provide relaxation and relief for back tension and headaches.  We are pleased with the results!  Headaches are now "SPOONKed" away and he can't wait to unwind using the mat.  He told me is was his favorite gift this Christmas.  (Now I just have to get one for myself!)
5	1357862400	At first, this was a little painful so what I did was use it wearing a shirt for a little awhile.  Once I got use to that I used it without my shirt.  I started sleeping much better and felt like I had more energy all day long. My husband likes it as well and it helped him with his heartburn.  Worth every cent.
5	1357862400	I've never been so impressed with any product's ability to deliver its promised benefits.The first time I lay on the Spoonk mat, I had a life-changing experience.Thinking I'd give it a try and maybe feel a little relaxed after using it, I settled in for a 20 minute session on my back.Yes, the spikes give a burn across whatever part of your body it's in contact with at first.But in five minutes, that goes away.In ten minutes, I was laughing uncontrollably.Five minutes later, I was gushing tears.Five minutes later, I was in hysterics again.By the end of the session, I was more relaxed and happy than I'd been in at least a year.I've never had anything give me such a working-over like that.Since then, I use it every day and I sleep like a champ.
5	1357776000	I love this mat! Like everybody says, it took some getting used to, but I noticed a sense of relaxation after even my very first use. I am now completely comfortable with my Spoonk and use it in the morning and at night before bed with incredible results. I feel more relaxed, my muscles ache less after workouts, and my mood is elevated throughout the day. Highly recommended!
4	1357776000	I have been using this mat for about a month, and so far I am very happy with the product. I have been suffering from a moderate level of upper back pain from sitting in front of a computer for long hours. It is not so severe that my doctors can do anything about it (other than advising me to take breaks, ha!), but I was going to bed with a sore back and waking up with a sorer back. The Spoonk mat is perfect for me to relieve upper back tension: I lie on it for ~30 minutes each night; usually I already drift off to sleep by the end of the session, so I need a timer to wake me up and put the mat away. Then I can fall back to sleep right away, and in the morning my back is no longer sore! The first time I fell asleep on the mat for an hour, and my skin felt raw! Miraculously, however, the skin was not broken but just was VERY red and prickly; by the next morning it recovered with no problem.Why not 5 stars? Well, I don't believe this is for everyone.  I have tried to encourage my husband to use it, since he also has tense muscles on his back. But each time has been a torture for him, and at the end of a 30-40 minutes session, he still has not overcome the "initial sensation." After making the effort several times, he gave up completely. You have to have a reasonable tolerance for pain, and you have to have some real problems to motivate you to endure that pain. In other words, this is not a substitute for a pampering spa massage if that's what you are looking for.The mat has a solid built, but I have not tried other similar products so I cannot say if this is much better than its (cheaper) competitors. Oh, so far I have not figured out how to use the carry-bag -- if I roll the mat with the spike on the outside, the roll does not go into the pouch, not to mention piercing my hands; if I roll the mat with the spike inside, wouldn't I damage the spikes?
5	1357776000	got this mat at Xmas, it was present for a relative but she passed it to me.  Been suffering with enthesopathy of the achilles tendon for over a year and had not made any progress in months but have used the mat every day since and started to make real progress: yesterday walked normally ( heel to toe) for 5 minutes!  There is hope
5	1357689600	I bought this for my wife as a Christmas gift. We both really enjoy it.  I found that I need to set my alarm clock to wake me up because after about 10 minutes I completely fall asleep! It definitely relaxes me.
5	1357689600	I became an active adult in my late fifties (downhill skiing, racquetball, weight machine, water zumba, mountain hiker) who fell on the ice in my driveway 4 years ago and developed severe arthritis of the hip and back.  Staying active helps, but I still experience muscle pain on the left side of my back...I tried trigger point therapy which helped enormously...and now I feel I have taken my resolve to remain active and limber to the next level with the Spoonk Mat.I have only used it before sleeping for the past week and am glad I read the reviews warning about the "pain" experienced in the initial uses.  IT IS TRUE!! IT HURTS!!! Lying on the mat with bare skin feels like a thousand needles are piercing your back...and the recommendation of using the mat for 5 minutes only for initial uses is very important...but, on the fifth time, I have now been able to work up to 30 minute sessions and have been sleeping like a baby!I am very happy with this mat and appreciate all of the reviews that prepared me for the initial discomfort so I did not give up on using the mat.
5	1357689600	the acupressure massage mat works really great. i have arthritis in my backand poor circulation in my legs. after using the mat i felt a lot better.  i pricedthe mat in my local health food store and it was $20 more than amazon!
5	1357603200	I just received this mat today and I love it.  I didn;t know if it would be painful the first time using it.  I was happy to not experience any major discomfort.  I look forward to many years of enjoyment with this mat.
5	1357603200	I'm a newly minted RN and due to the physical demands of my job, (and possibly needing a new mattress), I've been dealing with lower back pain for the past year or more. I had tried stretching, different sleep positions, yoga etc. some of which helped but only temporarily or only a little bit. After seeing the Spoonk on Dr. Oz I figured I'd check it out and I ended up receiving it as a Christmas gift. It took me a few uses to get used to the feel of the pressure points but when I wake up with back pain, just 5 minutes on the Spoonk makes me feel less tense and gets rid of my back pain. I've been meaning to start using it both at night and in the morning but keep forgetting, although I'm sure that would make an even bigger difference. Well worth the price to have pain and tension relief in just a few minutes in your own home!!
5	1357603200	My husband usually complains back pain after a whole day work. I asked him to try this mat, at first it hurts a little bit when lying on the mat, but after 15min, his back pain is much better.
5	1357603200	Really enjoy the Mat, lay on this thing for 5-10 min before bed and it really relaxes your body and gets you ready to fall asleep fast!! I definitely recommend if you have a hard time winding down.
1	1357603200	Recently I purchased a Spoonk mat.  When I received the mat and opened the box, an enclosed note stated:"Thank you so much for your purchase of the Spoonk mat.  In order for me to continue to be able to provide the best quality product made in USA we would love to receive your five star review on how the Spoonk Mat is beneficial to YOU.  For sharing with us and others this information we would like to send you a FREE 100% Organic TRAVEL SIZE Spoonk Mat."Please email us the link to your review with your street address and a Spoonk-travel size will be on it's [sic] way!"All the best and thanks again!"The note was from a "Natasha" in Spoonk's public relations department.  Currently, the travel-size Spoonk mat retails for $29.99 on Amazon.com.I will not comment on whether I like the mat.  What I will say is that I think Spoonk is being sneaky and underhanded trying to increase/inflate its Amazon.com reviews by offering consumers a free $29.99 product.  Sorry, Spoonk, you get a one-star from me based upon your lack of transparency with consumers.
5	1357603200	I'm only 21, but I've had rheumatoid arthrits and fibromyalgia since I was 13 and off and on I have awful aches in my back around my right scapula and mid back. I really don't like the strong stuff the doctor prescribes because it causes stomach issues. Accupuncture and chiropractors are costly and being a student. it's so hard to find time for sessions, and more than one session is needed for any kind of substantial relief (at least in my case), so I started looking for an alternative and stumbled across this. I had seen it in Whole Foods before but it was alot more expensive than the price here, so I bought it. It definitely takes some getting use as it can be painful in the beginning, but after a few minutes you feel the pain melt away to be replaced by a gentle warm sensation. I've already had my mat for about a week and I use it everyday, on the floor, with bare skin and I've been feeling alot better. Granted, this isn't a cure, but it is a really great homeopathic alternative to pills.For those having doubts about whether to spend $40 on this funny looking mat, I would say go for it.  I love my Spoonk mat!
5	1357603200	I received this as a gift from my sister.  I have struggled with insomnia for over 7 years.  I also drive about 70 miles a day for work so I also suffer from constant neck and shoulder pain.  So I got this on Christmas Day.  I have since tried it and it takes some getting used to.  Even pulling it out of the bag has o be done carefully because of the sharp points.  It does take some determination but I do feel the tension melting.  Right now, the relief is slight but i am trying the evening and morning routine as well as a few minutes on the feet as i struggle with cramps going from high heels to flat, bare feet. I am very excited to have read the reviews and seen all the awesome results.  Can't wait to experience more sustained relief!
5	1357516800	I really love this thing.  It is very painful at first, especially for the first 5 to 10 minutes, and especially when you try to get off it.  I basically do a sit up to get off it, and the extra pressure as you pulse up is pretty painful.  That said, it doesn't break skin.  Anyway, once you push through the initial pain, it gets awesome.  Basically, you get this really warm feeling, then your whole body just relaxes.  It kind of feels like there's small vibrations going through your body or something.  Then, once you get off it, your as relaxed as you'll ever be for a little bit and your backpain is gone.  It helped out my upper back pain almost instantly, and we'll see how it does on the lower back over time.  Anyway, great mat and well worth the money.  And I was initially very skeptical.
5	1357516800	My husband was supremely thoughtful this Christmas and decided to give me a "theme" gift.  The theme was relaxation, and among the heating socks, lovely perfumes, favorite games, and other fun stuff was this revelation - the oddest looking thing I think I had ever received. At first I thought it was an odd yoga mat, but then he explained the concept to me and what it was used for - and that it was featured on Dr. Oz's show "whoever he is."  I was all, duh, OPRAH's DOCTOR FRIEND DUDE.  And if HE loves it, then it has to be good.  :)But it is - it truly is good. It only took me a few minutes to adjust to the mat. I started out with a heavier T-shirt and have gradually moved on to thinner and thinner t-shirts.  I'm not quite ready yet to go bare skinned on my back or belly with it, however, my son and husband both have, and they also find the mat very relaxing.  My favorite part is having the mat press against my bare neck and head.  I gently rub my scalp against it, and it gives it a nice soothing head scratch / massage.  I have done the face against it as well, and that works nicely, too.I am looking forward to continuing to use this to get a nice, relaxing experience.  With all the stress going on in my daily life, I truly appreciate any effective means to de-stress, and this has proven to be one of them for me.
5	1357516800	I received this as a gift from my mother who heard me complaining about my sore back. Apparently she heard about Spoonk on one of the daytime TV shows which left me skeptical. That said, I have been intrigued by the thought of accupressure treatment for some time so I figured I would give it a shot. Like most, I tried it with a shirt on first and couldn't really feel anything. I tried it without the shirt and it definitely smarts a bit. I have a very high threshold for pain but it still took some time to get used to it. After using it for about a week I can honestly say I enjoy it. I am not sure about long term effects but I can feel it hours after I get off the mat. I keep it next to my couch and pull it out when I sit down at the end of the day. After the initial rush from the sharp points, it definitely helps me relax and unwind.
5	1357516800	I have been complaining about insomnia for years and the only that worked was taking the magic little pills. I received the Spoonk Mat for Christmas and I have used it every night except for 1 and that night I did not sleep.  I was a little nervous at first to try it since it does hurt a little the first time you lay down on it.  I only used it for about 10 minutes the first night, but since then its been at least 30 minutes.  I am amazed that this little mat can help rid me of my insomnia.  I would recommend this product.  Except make sure you add the pillow to your order for added relaxation.
5	1357516800	My husband and I bought this product and loved it.  It is portable and convenient for travel and we immediately brought it away with us for the weekend, where we were stress free, using it on our feet and upper backs was very relaxing.
5	1357516800	I have trouble relaxing and getting to sleep at night. The Spoonk helps me fall asleep so quick! It does take a few minutes to get used to, but after that is incredibly relaxing.
5	1357516800	So far it has been great sleeping better and having more energy from the first day. Wow I hope it keeps on going
5	1357516800	After reading all of the 5 star reviews, I have to agree.  For the this week of use, the initial 5 mins. is a bit painful, but after a lot of deep breaths the feeling is hypnotizing.  I've been using the mat for 2 weeks now and I love it!  I sleep much better and feel soo much better over all.  No where near the amount of fatigue I used to feel during the middle of the day.  Awesome!  I'm telling all of my coworkers about it...we are all shift workers who suffer from sleep disorders.
5	1357430400	I ordered the Spoonk because I have neck and shoulder involvementduring migraines that I get frequently. The accupressure pointsrelax me and the warmth it releases as well as the endorphinshelp relieve the pain.  I would definitely recommend the spoonkfor muscle ailments and as a source of energizing.Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag
5	1357430400	I used my mat for the first time the other night and I was addicted to it after that! It helps relieve nervous tension and I sleep better at night after using it.
5	1357430400	I wasn't sure what to expect, so I went in with an open mind.  My first try was before bed.  I used the mat for 10 minutes, hoping to feel relaxed and sleep well.  It did the exact opposite!  I was wide awake for most of the night, but wasn't tired at all when I finally had to get up in the morning.  Now, I use the mat in the morning right after I wake up.  So far, I've been doing only 10-15 minutes.  I feel energized and awake the whole day.  My body doesn't hurt as much as it used to.  I forgot to use the mat one morning and my daughter even asked me if I used it because she saw a change in my mood.  (I was really crabby that day.)  For me, the mat does wonders for my energy.  I can't go a morning without it!
5	1357430400	I have found this mat strangely sleep-inducing.  I took my first nap in years after lying on it.  (I actually fell asleep lying on it.)  We've taken to calling it the Bed of Nails because it is pretty prickly although not prohibitively so.  I do find it makes my skin really itchy and I've regretted using it to scratch my back....
5	1357430400	I have had really bad back pain recently and wind up going to the chiropractor 1-2 times a week or else I'd be on pain meds. I saw this and the reviews online and figured why not- at least if it could alleviate some of my pain. Well right from the start I noticed a difference. I have been using the mat 15-25 min every day or other day and have had great success. I'm able to continue with my daily activities without having to worry about how I'll get by. This was the best money  I've spent. Anyone else with similar problems should definitely try it.
5	1357430400	Purchased the Spoonk mat for my mother for a Christmas present this year. Wanted her to try an alternative product to relive pain in her leg and back. It's been working. Shortly after Christmas I placed my order. Shared the product at work and a few girls fell in love and are placing a order soon. It's amazing what some pressure can do for you. I enjoy the felling after laying on the mat my body is circulating more. Highly recommend this product.
5	1357344000	I received this mat as a gift for Christmas, and have been very happy with the product! It is not only relaxing, but helps with my neck and shoulder muscle pain. At first I tried it with a thin t-shirt, but now use it directly on my skin. It helps me sleep better, too.
5	1357344000	WOW !!! Spoonk mat really is awesome. I layed on it in my bed for 20 minutes the 1st time I used it. It was just as described. A little uncomfortable for a few minutes, then a very warm feeling. I felt so relaxed and pain free. I would recommend this product to anyone with back, shoulder or neck pain. It works ! ! !
5	1357344000	I'm normally very dubious of acupuncture; however, I bought it for my husband because of the reviews.  If many people find that they enjoy using it, what difference does it make if the effects are real or imagined?Nonetheless, when it arrived and looked at the tag, I saw that the manufacturer claimed that it worked by causing the body to release endorphins. From what I understand, your body will release endorphins if it's been injured or thinks it's been injured (think spicy food).  So the maker's explanation seemed plausible.I gave it a try. It was painful for a couple of minutes, then it became uncomfortable but not painful within five, and within ten minutes I was very relaxed and even feel asleep. I actually like this product very much and intend on using it on a regular basis.
5	1357344000	I love my massage mat.  I lay on it 25-30 minutes before going to bed and it puts me in a state of deep relaxation.  I sleep a lot better after laying on my mat...I love it! I could only stay on it for about 10 minutes the first few nights but got use to it quickly. A great product, would recommend to anyone!
5	1357344000	I use this for 30 minutes in the morning before getting out of bed and again at nite.  It relaxs me so much at night I have fallen asleep on it.  It's uncomfortable for a couple minutes but then feels great.
5	1357344000	I had just begun an acupressure facelift method when I discovered the Spoonk mat. As soon as it arrived I used it in all the recommended ways up to the maximum recommended time. As others have reported, the initial pain can be intense but if you are able to bear it, it eventually subsides and interesting stuff starts happening. Since my body is just getting used to the mat I'm not sure whether the intense pulsating that I initially felt will continue. But its like the pulsation that I feel when I apply Indian Healing Clay to my face. Afterwards my face is red and I can clearly see increased blood circulation. As a bonus, without getting too graphic, it really got things moving in my digestive track.... nothing overly unpleasant, it just got rid of lots of pent up stuff (including air). It's also contributed to the facelift method I'm using. My skin continues to firm and my complexion is glowing.I've been under an enormous amount of stress at work and have been relying on sleeping pills for about 3 weeks to fall asleep quickly and stay asleep. I've tried to avoid them some nights but after several hours of sleeplessness, I've had to resort back to them. That is until the mat arrived. The past two nights that I've used it as instructed on my back, I've fallen asleep immediately. Last night I even fell asleep on the mat. At some point I woke up, removed it and continued to sleep soundly.I'm a highly active (running, rowing) 55 year old woman, who's starting to feel increased aches and pains. Even after just two nights my neck pain has diminished. I will definitely continue to use the mat on a regular basis and look forward to experiencing all the benefits it affords!
5	1357344000	First I must say that I am a HUGE skeptic when it comes to alternative medical treatments but I noticed that I needed a massage or something but that costs a TON of money.  However when I saw this mat I thought I would give it a go and I am glad I didPros-Very High Quality-Made in the USA-Eco Freindly-Can be used on any body part-comes with very nice instructions/suggestions-5 year warranty 30 day money-back guaranteeCons-Can be painful at first and sometimes it becomes overwhelming for me.
5	1357344000	Love this product. I use this nearly everyday. Helps relieve muscle soreness and stress. Would recommend. I like the carrying case that came with.
5	1357344000	We got this for christmas and we have used it every day since. In our large family its always in demand and for many reasons. To de stress, relaxation, it helps my mom sleep, re energizing, and as strange as it sounds it very comfortable. I would recommend this to any body.
5	1357344000	I was worried at first about purchasing this mat because it was not as expensive as some of the other acupressure mats out there, but this is a fantastic product and a great deal. I have used this for back pain, an upset stomach, and relief for sore feet and have been happy with the results. It may sound weird, but I usually have an upset stomach before bed and lying on this mat for only 5 minutes a night helps to settle it. I don't think it is as painful as some of the other users had thought, but maybe because I had read the reviews and braced myself for more pain that actually occurred. I would definitely recommend this product!
5	1357257600	I was a little concerned with some of the painful reviews but they were correct.. if  you just stick it out for about 4 mins.  it doesn't hurt anymore and it really does help me fall asleep faster at night. I use it about 20mins. before bedtime and i am out before i know it. Thanks for a quality product that i can use in the privacy of my own homeCotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag
5	1357257600	As others have stated, it takes a little bit to get used to the initial pain of the mat on bare skin, but it does indeed seem to help with sleep and overall feelings of wellbeing. The unexpected benefit of the mat, however, is that I've found that if I 1: prop a pillow with the Spoonk mat on it then 2: lay down with the back of my head fully supported by the pillow and Spoonk it greatly reduces my headaches. Yea! (Also feels great wrapped around a rolled up towel as a neck roll.)
5	1357257600	Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag my son bought this for me as a Christmas gift but when he arrived home and saw how much pain I was in when I got up or tried to walk he gave it to me early.  I can not say enough good things about this mat.  I even slept all night on it twice.  However, I do recommended wearing thick clothes if you do this.  This is one of the best useful and helpful gifts I have ever received.  It helped with my pain so I was able to actually enjoy our time together.  I told him I wished they made them for cars.  He laughed and said "We don't want people going to sleep driving."  Great gift.  Thank you to all involved from the makers, my son and his friend who mentioned hers for stress.
5	1357257600	The Spoonk mat has helped relax my back, my legs my arms, and seriously transformed my feet!  I wait tables and walk around on cement floors for 8 hours a day...a couple minutes at night and in the morning is all it takes. I use it before stretching and the mat really relaxes me and makes me feel energized and "healthy".  I love the Spoonk and highly recommend it for any one that wants to relax, tired stressed out bodies!Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag
5	1357257600	I got this as a Christmas present for my wife, she told me that she read all the positive reviews online and Dr.OZ.She loves this mat. She says it helps her relax her muscles, and she says its an awesome remedy for her back.However, I tried it and I have sensitive skin... I could not use this mat for more than a second since I consider myself to have sensitive skin. So this might not be for you.Otherwise this is a must have for anyone who suffers from strained muscles.
5	1357257600	I received my Spoonk Acupressure Massage Mat on 2 Jan, 2013. Tried it that night before going to bed. I put it on the floor and laid down on it, with only my light PJ's between me and the mat. It was wonderful!! I couldn't believe how good my back and shoulders started feeling after only a few minutes. I have been having trouble sleeping but that night I slept like a log. I woke up the next morning feeling refreshed for the first time in months. I tried it for the second time that morning with out anything between me and the mat but no go...not this time...maybe later down the road. Used it with a light T-shirt and it was OK. Will use it again before I go to bed tonight. If anything like the first time, I should sleep like a log again. I highly recommend this mat for anyone having back, neck or shoulder problems. It's cheaper than a chiropractor.
5	1357171200	My husband got me this mat for Christmas, as I have chronic neck and sciatic pain. I have never tried an acupressure mat before, so I didn't know what to expect. After the initial few minutes that are quite intense, my body goes into this incredible warm relaxed state and a very soothing feeling takes over. It's kind of hard to describe the pleasurable feeling, but I'd say it's extremely invigorating and exhilarating. Thanks "Spoonk" for easing my pain!
5	1357171200	I was a little skeptical at first but persevered and now I'm really enjoying my Spoonk Mat.  It takes a little practice and working through the initial pain but then stress and tension begin to leave and calm and relaxation flow in.  Nice for pre-sleep calming and relaxing.
5	1357171200	Like many, I am a skeptic.  I stumbled on to this product by chance while searching for a back massager for my wife.  Due to the price, I decided to take a chance and order it.  I'm glad I did.  I have been using it for a few weeks now and I am very satisfied with this product and the results.Like other reviews and the instruction booklet mention, it does take a little time to get used to.  I have an average tolerance to pain, and upon first use, it only bothered me slightly when I first laid on it.  The discomfort goes away after a few minutes and you are only reminded of it if you attempt to shift your position or when you finally get up.  However, despite all that, the seemingly instantaneous relief that results from its use is more than well worth it.  After about a week, I only felt slight discomfort for the first 15-20 sec, and its just not that bad.I haven't been very active lately, so I've developed a lot of those annoying little minor aches and pains throughout my body, and especially in my back.  By the end of the day, its very tempting to reach in the medicine cabinet for a pain reliever.  Then I remember I have this mat.  A 20 minutes session literally resolves ALL of my back pain.  When my time is up and I finally get up, as generic as it sounds, I feel like a new person...very relaxed and completely refreshed.  The product is also extremely helpful with falling asleep.  Whenever I'm feeling restless, or know that I have to go to bed early and I just don't feel like sleeping, again, 20 mins on this and I'm so relaxed that sometimes I struggle to keep my eyes open.This product goes above and beyond, and definitely works as advertised.  I'm very happy with this purchase and I will always have one of these.
5	1357171200	I think the first thing I must state is... This thing really doesnt hurt. When I laid down on it I was prepared for the worst... and relieved it wasn't bad. When I took it out of the package and touched it I thought it was pretty sharp, and braced myself as I laid down on it. The worst part of laying on it is as you lay back it slightly scrapes your skin, but once you're positioned and still its no problem. I'm still amused at the people who sent this thing back because it hurt too much to lay on...I did experience the warmth but it wasnt like I thought it would be, guess I'd hoped it would be hotter lol. I would compare it to the heat you feel in your joints after a run, only on your back.And surprise, surprise, I passed out on it!! My husband woke me and I felt so relaxed, I didnt even realize I'd fallen asleep. I had a very restful night.I have a herniated disk near my neck, and it causes me a lot of issues, I hope that this will help but I don't expect it to do much beyond helping me relax. My husband has a lot of back issues too, and he's one of those people who grudgingly hand out a compliment. If he says, &#34;It's alright&#34; that means its pretty good... He actually said, &#34;I really like this, I had the best sleep since I can remember.&#34; I will be ordering a second mat so that he can take his on deployment.Also, its worth noting, that unless you are crazy long torsoed, you can get one of those round neck pillows or just roll up a towel really tightly and place the top of the mat over it in order to have the &#34;pillow&#34; for your neck.It's worth the money just for the relaxation~ anything beyond that I will consider bonus :). If you can afford the mat, get it. I'll use this every night before bed from now on, I liken it to getting new script for contacts/glasses... you dont realize what you're missing until you have it!
5	1357084800	I suffer from serious joint pain and stiffness from osteoarthritis. The pain wakes me up, and the insomnia makes the pain worse! A vicious cycle. I will try anything, even lying on this funky bed of nails. The first five minutes are tough, but then the warmth circulates, and the pain goes away. It's heaven. I never want to be without my Spoonk!
5	1357084800	This mat helps ease back pain very quickly. I use it wearing a t-shirt and it is quite relaxing once you adjust to the pressure. It also helps with my headaches if I put it over a pillow and lay with my neck and head being &#34;treated&#34;.
5	1357084800	Received in two days with Amazon Prime.  Spoonk was packaged well and seems to be made of quality materials.  The Spoonk provides a &#34;warm&#34; sensation similar to a heating pad.  If you use it on the bed or a softer surface, the puncture pressure isn't as hard to get used to.  Definitely relaxes you into a sleep for bedtime or a nap. Your skin will be red but that effect will go away and the spikes do not go beyond &#34;skin deep.&#34;  It helps to relieve the onset of a neck cramp by placing a pillow under the mat so that the spikes make full and direct contact to the neck area.  To get full benefit, the spikes do need to be in direct contact with the skin as a shirt or other materials dull the effect.  I expect this product to last for several years.
5	1357084800	I was skeptical at first, but this mat is great! It definitely helps my back pains and it is also great when I have a headache/migraine. It is a little uncomfortable when you first lie down but you do not feel that after a few minutes - it's actually quite relaxing. I have yet to experience this, but my sister even falls asleep when she uses this mat. I have only tried the product on my back but the literature included with the mat says that you can use it on your face, stomach, and feet as well. Definitely a very interesting and awesome product - I highly recommend trying it out!
5	1357084800	I had never heard of this product before.  My husband heard about it and got it for me for Christmas.  I was a little skeptical about what looked like a "bed of nails", but I have really enjoyed resting on it & feel like it is un-knotting the bad spots on my neck and back that I get from working at a computer all day.  Although it did not cure my cold, it made resting while I had my cold much more tolerable.
1	1357084800	Somehow the mat poked the skin of the front part of right foot. I felt pain several days afterward. I am going to return the mat!
5	1357084800	My husband has used it everyday for about a week new.  He wore a t-shirt originally with it and there was no pain.  Yesterday he tried with no t-shirt and there was some pain but he was able to tolerate it.  Now he said he is going to slip it into a pillowcase because it is thinner than a t-shirt but not his bare back.He said he has notice he is sleeping better since using it.  It is a more sound sleep.  I don't know if that is something it claims to do but that is the biggest benefit he has seen from it.
5	1356998400	This is a great product for my feet.  I love to walk on the mat each morningand it gives my feet relief from aches and pain.
5	1356998400	I struggle with migraines that (we think) stem from tight muscles in my neck and upper back.  I love laying on my Spoonk in the evenings to relax (and so does my husband).  I have often found that I get into such a relaxed state that I fall asleep on it.  I have not found immediate relief from migraines (I wish) but I have found immediate relief from a upset stomachs.  If my stomach is upset I just lay face down with my stomach on it and after about five minutes I feel much better.  One thing I was worried about before my purchase was the other reviews that mentioned pain lying on it.  I am seriously the biggest wimp ever and don't have much of an issue laying on the Spoonk.  I do agree that after about five minutes you don't feel it any more.  Another suggestion is laying on it in bed; it helps soften it up better than laying directly on the floor.  As some people said, you could also use a light shirt also.  I think it is better to lay bare skin on it though.  In conclusion, I LOVE my Spoonk!
5	1356998400	I bought this for my husband, but I use it every day.  The initial sensation was too intense for me, but I place a pillow case on it before lying down and it is very tolerable.  I use it every night in bed, and I awake feeling more refreshed and less tired in the morning.  I have used it durning the afternoon and felt energized after the recommended time and placement of the mat.  I read so many of the reviews but I'm still surprised that I feel so rested in the morning!  Highly recommend!
5	1356998400	This product is exactly as described.  It takes a bit to get used to it, follow the directions and use it for a few minutes each day.  The relaxation and warmth that happens after using it is amazing.  I am planning to order one for my son that is having troubles sleeping.
5	1356998400	My husband and I love this mat.  It feels so good after a stressful day.  We use it every night and after a run.
5	1356912000	Just received the mat and I love it already.  Almost immediately my skin and back began to feel warm, tingly and great.  I almost started dozing after only 5 minutes.  I had my husband read the literature that came with it and he said &#34;bring that mat to me, now&#34;.  He just threw his back out and has already stolen it from me.I'm pretty sure I'll be ordering another one for me and as gifts for others.Try it, you'll like it.
5	1356912000	I got this as a Christmas present from my amazing husband and wow this helps my back pain. I would recommend this product to anyone who lives in pain. This product really works but you must use it daily.
5	1356912000	I love my spoonk mat, at first I thought the spikes would hurt,but after the first few minutes you don't even feel the spikes.  I lay on it for about 30 minutes before I go to bed and helps me sleep so much better.  Not only does this help me sleep better,but also is very relaxing.  I would def recommend this to anyone out there that is debating on buying this.
5	1356912000	As a fibromyalgia patient, I was ready to try acupuncture when my niece and nephew sent me this odd looking mat for Christmas.  My niece (a massage therapist and fitness instructor) is well informed as to possible new treatments.  Yes, the mat does look different and feels like a bed of nails at first, but once you are over the first two minutes or so of laying on the mat, a comfortable feeling follows.  Using the Spoonk mat the first time relieved my headache and lessened my body aches as well.  I now use the Spoonk mat with a towel rolled up beneath my neck for additional therapy.To anyone who suffers with fibromyalgia and PMR, please give this mat a try.  My constant headache and body ache can be reduced on any given day without taking yet another pill.The Spoonk mat has my best recommendation.
5	1356912000	To be completely honest I was skeptical when l bought this product. But after seeing and reading so many 5 star positive reviews I was convinced and quite curious as to how well it may work. So I placed my order with Amazon Prime (love the free 2 day shipping) and received my Spoonk in two days. The other reviews are right, it can take some getting used to because those spikes are pretty pointy and it does hurt when you first lay on it. SO heres what I did...1. turn off the lights or at least have them dimmed (if you bought this to relax, dont expect the mat to do all the work)2. take a few minutes to relax before laying on the Spoonk3. Once calm and ready lay down on it with or without a shirt4. RELAX! It can be difficult to ignore those ponts in your back but take deep slow breaths and RELAX the pain will pass after 4 minutesFor me I didnt feel the benefits until 8 minutes or so passed. After that the pain was gone and you do get a warm feeling on your back (increased blood flow I suppose) Yesterday I even fell asleep while laying on the Spoonk after just 10 minutes. I am pleasantly surprised with my Spoonk and despite to sharp points, I look forward to using it in the future.
5	1356912000	My wife used a mat that our friends had, while we were at their our for vacation and she just had to have one.  She loves it so much. It helps her back more than anything else she has ever used.
5	1356912000	I purchased one for myself and two as Christmas gifts and was concerned after reading recent reviews that the five star reviews were only being generated for the free travel size mat offer. I have RA that is in clinical remission but still suffer from occasional joint pain and side effects from the medications that help control my RA. I tried my mat yesterday, after waking up from a horrible sleep the night before and was amazed how relaxed I felt after 30 minutes. I love my Spoonk mat and would highly recommend it, the five star reviews are genuine.
5	1356912000	I had no idea what to expect.  The first time I tried, it felt uncomfortable and strange. So I now I use a thin tshirt. My skin is a bit too sensitive to do it nude.  Using this product helps me to get calm, almost in a meditation state.  I sleep much better at night.  I also think it helps my shoulder pain and depression.  I have no clue how or why this works, but I'm so glad I got it as a present for myself...
5	1356912000	I went out on a limb and trusted Dr. Oz when it came to this recommendation.  I've had back pain for several years now and am up for trying just about anything to avoid taking pain killers.  I asked for one of these for Christmas, and I couldn't be happier!  Laying on the mat relieves my pain in no time.  And my husband loves the mat for his feet -- says it really relieves his tension.
5	1356912000	The Spoonk is a true gem. It is a satisfying solution to a variety of common health issues. From my personal experiences, it relieves stress, relieves muscle tension/fatigue, stimulates circulation, energizes and relaxes.At first, it looks and feels intimidating. The 6,000+ spikes, however, should not deter you from trying this. After slowly easing into it, the sensation is truly remarkable.I'm a slow riser in the morning and it takes me a while to ramp up at work. The Spoonk really helps energize me in the morning, giving me a natural boost to my day (I don't drink coffee). After I wake up, I typically lay on the Spoonk for 5 minutes and will probably stand on it a few times before I make my way out the door. By then, I'm already feeling great. My job then requires that I sit all day and night, often past midnight, and by the end of the week my body is stiff and I'm completely burnt out. Laying on my Spoonk before I go to bed is a tremendous stress reliever and it does a great job loosening up the stiff areas of my body. I've been contemplating buying a massage chair (very expensive and not very attractive in a living room) for a while now, and although the Spoonk does not massage, I believe it has substantially helped relieve the tension that builds up each week - I have decided to forgo the chair.In summary, I am very pleased with my Spoonk and believe there are many terrific benefits.
5	1356912000	I have had this mat for about a month.  I use it about 5 nights a week on bare skin for about 30 minutes.  There is a definite relaxation effect. It seems to increase with use.  My sleep is consistently deeper, faster to come on, and with a later wake-up time.  ??  Also I notice my neck muscles are much more relaxed and flexible and they are often tight and sore because I have a subluxation and haven't had an adjustment lately.  I have also used it on my face for about 5 minutes per side, 2 times a week.  My facial skin sensitive and won't warming essential oils.  Although my face feels really hot and irritated while lying on the mat, within an hour of the &#34;treatment&#34; it looks perfectly calm with absolutely no irritation or redness. Not sure if there is improvement to my skin; probably too soon to tell but it seems less blotchy and calmer. Ditto for the skin on my back.  Amazingly there is no drying, itching, redness, etc. from lying on those pointy little objects.
5	1356825600	Really helped relieve lower trapezius pain - looks like it would hurt to lay on, but it actually feels good.
5	1356825600	We just got the mat for Christmas but we have the neck roll like this one and we love it. My husband has back pain and we hope it works. It is good quality and comes with a nice storage bag.
5	1356825600	I have suffered from horrible insomnia for years; it was hard for me to get to sleep at the end of the day and, due to poor quality of sleep, I never woke up refreshed. I have tried nearly everything to no avail, so when my sister gave this mat to me for Christmas I was skeptical that it would help since everything else I have tried has been fairly worthless. I am delighted that my skepticism was completely misplaced! I have used this mat every night for about 20 minutes before bed and I couldn't be happier -- I cannot remember the last time I slept so well, and I feel like a completely different person. It's amazing what a good night's sleep can do; I'm so grateful to have this product in my life.
5	1356825600	Works great helps relieve stress, relax muscles. Has helped with TMJ pain and back pain. Also relaxes me. Fall right to sleep. Well worth the price and more.
5	1356825600	I cannot afford to go to receive accupuncture and when I saw this mat in Oprah magazine immediately went to Amazon and got one . The day it arrived I was having horrible lower back spasms. Tried it that night on my  bed for the first time - it does feel painful at first but that feeling goes away quickly and then I could feel the warmth spreading through my lower back and even though I only did it for 15 minutes ( time recommended for first try of mat) - my back felt GREAT - totally relaxed, no pain and no pain all the next day too. I am a firm believer in the benefits of accupuncture and now a firm believer in this Spoonk mat! I have used it daily and feel like I already have more energy and have recommended it to all my friends and relatives who suffer from any chronic pain. Thanks for making such a great product!! Carol
5	1356825600	I got this as a gift for my daughter for Christmas, before I wrapped it up I had to try it out for I just had leg, ankle and foot surgery 2 months ago had a hard time sleeping.  It really works yes it takes a little getting use to but just in minutes I could feel the blood rushing and than it wasn't so uncomfortable. I could fall asleep right away. I also got it to put under my legs to stimulate circulation for faster healing results in my leg. Just starting with that therepy.
5	1356739200	I had been borrowing my friend's spoonk and it just got tiresome always having to borrow (her fault for making me try it out in the first place!)I have an injury on my left shoulderblade and spoonk helps relieve it. Instead of arranging and paying for massage. I just use spoonk. I can use it whenever I have time. I don't have to deal with anyone to schedule an appointment etc.I've also started bugging my husband to use it. I've been quite successful so far. He complains when he first lies down on it, but after a while he just quiets down.My kid wants to try but he's too young!UPDATE--So I've used this every day since I've gotten it. I've been an insomniac since I was a kid, but not since spoonk! My husband calls it "spoonked out." No need for relaxants or melatonin tabs.
5	1356739200	Update(06/27/2013): The seller offers a free travel-size spoonk mat for those who leave a 5 star rating. Probably explains the high number of positive reviews on amazon. They did send one out to me after my initial review.That does not take anything away from the review - the product is still great and truly awesome. It helps get rid of so many pains/spasms/etc, besides the meditative effects. However, most reviews you see here on amazon.com are incentive-based. Uploaded a picture depicting the same.Product was as other reviewers had mentioned. After the initial pain, didn't realize I was falling asleep. Not sure if this is a good thing or bad thing though, as the recommended guideline states to use it for 30-40 mins at a time. So need to set a timer or have someone wake you up.Pain areas feel much better. Will write an update later down the line after regular use.
5	1356739200	My son and his wife got me the Spoonk mat for Christmas and in just one day I could feel a real difference!  My lower back doesn't hurt in the morning as I get out of bed!  My ankles don't swell up when I use the Spoonk on my calves and the bottom of my feet!  The initial pain when I first get on the mat and the pain when I get off is still a little hard to get used to, but it is well worth it!  (I wish they would offer a Spoonk mat with acupressure spikes that would recede when getting on and off the mat!!!) I highly recommend the Spoonk mat!!
4	1356739200	I bought the Spoonk accupressure mat in hopes it would help with my sleep issues.  I wake up during the night and have trouble getting back to sleep.  The mat was initially very painful but I stuck with it and gradually increased my time on it.  I try to use it several times per week for about 30 minutes at a time before bed.  On nights I use it, I quickly fall into a very deep sleep.  I still wake up before my alarm but I sleep longer than I do without the mat.  Overall, I'm happy with the purchase and would recommend it for better sleep.
5	1356739200	I received this mat for Christmas and LOVE it! While traveling I'm unable to maintain my acupuncture appointments and this mat is a great substitute. I'll be purchasing the neck roll pillow next so I can fully enjoy the benefits of the acupressure mats. It was a bit uncomfortable at first try but after the initial use its been great!
5	1356652800	Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bagThe initial pain was pretty excruciating!  But...after several tries, I had success!  I have had problems sleeping for years, but the Spoonk has helped!  I recommend trying it on a mattress and NOT the floor, the first few times.  I found that wearing a light-weight t-shirt the first time was helpful.  My husband lays on it on the floor and it really helps him de-stress.
5	1356652800	Recently got the Spoonk mat for back problems,neck pain and stress.I actually stood on it and although it hurt in the beginning I felt relief from some foot problems I have.I then tried it on my back and loved how it felt.I use it several times a day and have noticed a difference.
5	1356652800	I first saw this mat at WholeFoods and find it very interesting.  I did a little research and decided to give it a try.  I thought it would be very uncomfortable but it wasn't.  I don't know how it works but it relaxes my back muscles.  Since I sleep on my back and don't move much, I'm definitely sleeping on it tonight.
5	1356652800	This mat (in blue) is amazing!  I highly recommend it.  So excited about it!  We got one for my mom and she really loves it as well.  I've never tried accupuncture, but its amazing how quickly this mat works.
5	1356652800	I am giving this mat a 5 start review because everything about it is great!  The quality is outstanding, as soon as you take yours out of the package, this is obvious.  The pressure points are nice and sturdy as is the mat in general.  The first time you lay on it, it is definitely uncomfortable to say the least but after a few uses of bearing with it it does start to get better and you begin to look forward to laying on your spoonk!
5	1356652800	Received the magenta Spoonk mat 2 days ago.  Yes, it gets your attention when you first lay back on it, but after a few minutes, no issues.  I only lasted 5 minutes the first go, and then 10 minutes last night.  Slept like a baby afterwards.  My husband could not resist, and was actually the first to try it.  He has used the past two nights as well, and has nothing but good things to say about it.  We both are using this mat on bare skin - no tee shirts or any other fabric between either of us and the Spoonk mat.I'm very happy with this purchase.  I try to get a deep tissue therapeutic massage - once a week when possible.  I'm looking forward to additional relief with the Spoonk mat, for the chronic stiffness in my back, shoulder and neck muscles, due to a combination of asthma, TMJ and working at a computer all day, most days.
5	1356566400	Great for stress relief and pain management.  It is effective.  Other reviews don't lie.  Priced just right.  Made in the USA an extra plus.
5	1356566400	This mat is very useful for those with back and neck pain. It takes some getting used to but the nails on the bed are relieving and relaxing. I saw the mat on Dr Oz and it is worth it!
5	1356566400	The mat is for my mother Ho has suffered from insomnia for years. Yesterday was her first day using it and she already could feel the difference after using the mat for 2 times, 10 mins for each time. Also, she usually has cold fleets and cold hands, the mat also helped her feel warmer because of better blood circulation.
5	1356566400	As soon as I got my mat, I tried it out and LOVED it!  At first, I thought it would hurt really bad, but it's not as bad as it looks.  If you are very sensitive and want to ease into the full on wonders the mat can do, you could try wearing a thicker shirt.  I would definitely recommend this product for anyone with back issues or if you just want a good nights sleep.  I personally work all day and sit at a computer, so this is the perfect thing to help me relax.
5	1356566400	I am a busy professional that sits at a desk most of days and travels a lot.  After returning from a recent business trip abroad, I threw my back... yes, 10 hrs of air travel wasn't very forgiving to my back.  I knew it was coming though.. my back muscles were all very tight for weeks leading up to it, and I guess the trip was just the tipping point.Anyhow, while researching home remedies for my back, I came across this acupressure mat and was intrigued enough to read reviews on Amazon.  Even after reading positive feedbacks, I was still skeptical, but I figured what the hey... I will give this a shot.Once I received it, I hand-washed the cover with a mild detergent and air dried it overnight.  The next night, I finally tested it out, with clothes on at first (these &#34;needles&#34; are a lot sharper than they look!).  I won't lie to you, even with clothes on, it hurt, but I gave a couple minutes and surprisingly I started feeling warm sensation and actually started feeling comfortable.  You just have to try it to believe it.  After using it for 5 mins (it was the first time and I wanted to gradually increase the time), my used-to-be tight muscles felt a lot loose and was able to walk around a lot more easily.The next night, I braved myself and lied on it on my bare back - yes, it hurt at first, but after adjusting a couple time to find a less painful position, once again, I started feeling warm sensation on my back and feeling so comfortable that I could just fall asleep right there and then!After using it everyday for almost 2 weeks now, I got used to these needle points that I use it not only on my back, but my stomach, feet and I even lean it against my chair and sit on it while I'm working on my computer.I am pleasantly surprised with how much this mat helped me with my back problem, and though my back feels back to normal now, I will continue to use it everyday for a preventative measure.  Acupressure mat is said to help you with circulation problem, so I am hopeful about that as well (I have cold hands/feet).
5	1356566400	I bought this for myself when I saw the product at WholeFoods and decided to look it up on-line to learn more.  I do not have cronic pain or anything like that but am often quite tense in my upper back.The mat is wonderful.  I currently use it every night before bed.  It completely relaxes me in 5-10 minutes and I've had a good restful sleep since I've been using it. I would recommend this product.
5	1356566400	This is a well made mat and I imagine it will last for a long time.  Bought it for back and foot pain but will try it for other areas as well.  Putting my face on it is a little scary but apparently you can do that.  Once you feel the edges you will probably be scared but your skin is tougher than you think.For the price it is an excellent buy!
5	1356566400	Here is what was written on an insert that came with my mat:"Thank you so much for your purchase of the Spoonk mat. In order for me to continue to be able to provide the best quality product made in USA we would love to receive your five star review on how the Spoonk Mat is beneficial to YOU. For sharing with us and others this information we would like to send you a FREE 100% Organic Travel Size Spoonk Mat.Please email us the link to your review with your street address and a Spoonk-travel size will be on its way! Natasha Frykman, pr at spoonkspace.com"I enjoy this mat very much.
5	1356566400	I find the massage mat very relaxing. Put on some mellow music, lay back on the mat and just wait for your body to melt into a relaxed mode.
5	1356566400	I have always had back problems, but getting weekly massages is just too expensive.  The spoonk mat is the perfect solution to this problem.  I lay on it for 30-40 minutes, twice a day (usually in the morning and at night) and it helps to relieve pressure and stress.  Cleaning houses all day long gives me back pain and the spoonk mat is the perfect thing to come home and relax with at the end of the day.
5	1356566400	It does!!!  Those sneaky Yogi's on their beds of nails were having a great time all along. Who knew?  I often fall asleep on this thing and have maybe missed one day on it since I got it.  One of those rare &#34;health&#34; products that actually lives up to the hype.  True, it hurts at first but over time it seems to keep getting better and better until you crave it like a street junkie.  I may be able to finally give up chasing women and have a life.
5	1356566400	The most relaxed I have ever felt! Love this mat!! Does wonders for my back and especially my feet after standing on them all day. Very pleased.
5	1356566400	I bought this mat for my husband, who has had back problems and restless nights as far as I can remember.  I gave it to him as a Christmas gift and just after one use he slept better and now after a few days his back pain is diminishing and he is sleeping better.  I used it and after about 4 minutes of discomfort, your back gets very warm and you are very relaxed.  Very happy with this purchase!
5	1356480000	I got this mat for my wife for Christmas and since it looks a little terrifying with all the spikes, I tried it out first. Very nice. Very relaxing. She then tried it and said the same thing. Neither of us can use it without a shirt yet, a bit intense, but soon. Also, intense is a good word. There was no pain and only minor discomfort when I moved wrong. I can't fault the product for that. I am not usually one for new age type remedies or quackery, but let me tell you this... I was relaxed while laying on this thing and for some time after so the results speak for themselves. One quibble... I received the wrong color. Also, not the fault of the product and blue works just as well as magenta. It just clashes a little with my wife's yoga mat.
5	1356480000	Totally amazed that it really worked.  Just like it warned, it did hurt for the first few minutes. I got it for back pain and after using for just a few times, it does help.
5	1356480000	I found my original Spoonk Space accupressure mat in a small novelty shop. I though it might help my achey bones and muscles that are a side effect from my post cancer medication and it truely does! I decided to purchase 10 more as Christmas presents for my family members and I hope they enjoy the effects of this mat as much as I do!
5	1356480000	I bought this as a Christmas gift for my boyfriend who works in construction. He has constant back and foot pain every day. He has recently had to go to the chiropractor because it has gotten so bad. He instantly threw himself on the Spoonk mat and asked if he should press his back into it more. He felt relaxed and wanted to bring the mat into bed and sleep on it the whole night. It also helped his foot pain, which we found out was plantar fasciitis. I would definitely recommend this as a gift for anyone and everyone!
5	1356480000	I decided to try the Spoonk mat for relaxation and pain relief.  I was, and am continually, amazed at the tremendously satisfying results I've had in relieving sciatic nerve pain and soreness and knots in my back. I fall asleep on it every night on my back, then turn over on my right side with the "pricks" on my piriformis muscle, which relieves sciatic nerve pain.  Many times I stay on it over half the night. Because sitting was triggering the sciatic nerve pain during the day, I'm now sitting on the Spoonk, pain free, when I put my make up on, read, use the computer, and when I drive or ride in the car.  I've found that the thinner the clothing I can wear when sitting or lying on it, the better results I get. I've had my Spoonk for just over 3 weeks now, but I was so impressed with it by the second day that I ordered one for my daughter for Christmas and had it sent to her early.  She doesn't have the pain problems that I have had, but she loves it for stress release and relaxation, and so do I. Relatives at Christmas looked at my mat in amazement, some touched it, but only one 12 year-old grandson wanted to try it. His response was, "This feels good." Personally I think it feels WONDERFUL!
5	1356480000	I got the Spoonk mat for Christmas after putting it on my wishlist. The physical therapist at the school where I teach recommended acupressure. I thought it looked worth a try for my aching back. I've used it for 3 nights in a row now and it is hard to adjust to during the first several minutes. After those first few though it is so relaxing and feels just like the same relaxation you get from a spa massage. I'm hooked and will be using it every night before bed.
5	1356480000	Like other reviewers noted, ,it hurt at first but then after a few minutes, pure relaxation.  I literally felt like I was going to fall asleep after 15 minutes of laying on it. I have tension in my back from carrying my infant son. The spoonk really eases the tension. I bought another one to give to my brother. I know he'll appreciate it!
5	1356480000	It works!  You might have to start with a t-shirt on but once you get the hang of it it is enjoyable.  Very relaxing!
5	1356393600	Item was received quickly and was as described.  My husband enjoyed receiving it and is eager to see how it works.
5	1356393600	Spoonk. Love it. I am very active and in recovery (physical and mental) mode at the end of each day.  Been using foam rollers etc. for years. Spoonk is now a daily part of my routine.  5-10 minutes on my feet and calves and they feel incredible.  20 minutes on my back and I am in another state of mind.  Every now and then something way cool and paradigm shifting comes along. Spoonk. Boom.
5	1356393600	Spoonk might be a bit painful at first, but it's life changing once you get use to it. I place the mat on my bed before going to sleep and it draws blood flow to the areas where I have tight muscles and aches. Human body will heal naturally with better blood flow and Spoonk does it magically.
5	1356393600	I am very pleased with this Mat.  Takes a day or two to get used to it but WELL worth it.  I found I feel so much better and sleep great after using it before bed. I bought another one for my parents, as my mother has fybromalsia, and my father has numbing in his feet. It has taken them a few days to get used to it, but are shocked on how well it seems to be working.Would recommend this mat for anyone.  Even has a nice carrying bag so you can take it with you if traveling or just to keep it clean.  Great product!
5	1356393600	I choose the mat for my wife because of the ratings online.  After she used the Spoonk mat, she agreed with the five star ratings it has received.  It is painful for the first few minutes but your body will relax and you will go into a deep, peaceful sleep.  I will be ordering three more as gifts.  Although, I wish they were a bit larger, I have no regrets purchasing the mat.
5	1356393600	Purchased this product for my mom and it is wonderful!  Can't wait to try it out more.  Thanks for a great product.
5	1356393600	I love this mat.  It was given as a gift from my brother who is a Physical Therapist.  I use it before bed for about 20 minutes.  It is relaxing and significantly helps relieve a sore back.  Feels like deep penetrating heat.
5	1356393600	Extremely useful for stress relief. Ten minutes makes you feel warm and relaxed. I would recommend to a gone suffering from sore muscles or tension.
5	1356307200	I was very pleasantly surprised by this product. I admit I was a bit skeptical, but with so many positive reviews, I had to try it.  I'm so glad I did - now I know what everyone is raving about. It is very different, and you will definitely feel some mild pain during the first few minutes on the mat, but hang in there and breathe through it. Before you know it, the mild pain sensation will be replaced by warmth and then total relaxation. On several occasions, I have even fallen asleep on it.  I have chronic back/shoulder/neck/head pain, and this has really made a difference for me, especially when combatting flare ups after a long day at work. It's a great way to end the day.
5	1356307200	Given to me as a gift, I had never seen this product so expectations were low.  First minute of first session was pretty painful but I hung in there and am so happy I did.  I use daily now and it has really improved my sleeping.  I've tried it on my face a few times but not really feeling the benefit there.Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bagStrongly recommend this product.
5	1356307200	was looking for something to help with some chronic back problems that and it is very effective in releasing a lot of the built up pressure in my back.  Its a nice alternative to a back massager.
5	1356307200	I promptly received the mat and immediately opened the package and laid down on the mat. I tried it with a shirt on at first and not much happened, so without the shirt I tried once again. There is quite a large pain sensation for the first few minutes as described in the instructions, but after that it was heavenly. As the throbbing pain slowly lowered it was replaced with a soothing feeling and I could peacefully feel my heartbeat throughout the whole of my back. I tried for fifteen minutes the first time and my back and shoulders were as relaxed as if i had just received a 60 minute massage.Well worth the $35. You won't regret it. Stick through the pain.
4	1356220800	I bought the product because it was advertised in the Canadian Living magazine as a great mat for relaxation.  I had never tried acupuncture before - but if the sensation is like the the acupressure massage provided by this mat, then it is something I am considering trying. The mat really does provide relaxation.
5	1356220800	I have been looking for acupressure foot massage, and I had came across the Spoonk Acupressure Massage Mat. I decided to purchase the item based on the review. It took less than a week for the item to arrive.My experience with this mat has been amazing! I followed the instructions included with the mat, and I will tell you that after using it for 30 minutes, my back pain started to lessen. Furthermore, I also used it as a foot massage by standing on it. I can actually feel my blood circulating due to the pressure points under my feet.I have used many products in the past and wasted a lot of money with no effective results. However, I truly recommend this product to anyone. This mat will do wonders for those with terrible back pain and poor circulation. I will always be a lifetime Spoonk buyer!
5	1356134400	I never knew that relaxation of muscles can be done so easily with no serious technology involved.It hurts initially since the spikes are really sharp but it takes only 8-10 mins for your body to settle down and then its all magic.If this is your first time doing anything like this and start with no expectations, you will be very positively surprised what this product does to you.I had one good night sleep yesterday. I did feel quite energized after a 20 minute session.For the price you are paying, Its well worth it.
5	1356134400	My brother bought this for me here on Amazon. I've been using it for 5 days (20 min around mid-afternoon since I sit at my desk a lot) and my entire body feels better. I have had tight shoulders and lower back pain (I sit at my desk WAY too much, but it can't be avoided) and I've seen a 75% improvement so far. Excited to keep using it. Other things I've noticed (better posture & reduced stress which I really didn't expect).
5	1356134400	I have never done acupuncture, but now I feel I have been missing out. So easy and convenient to use at home. At first it seems very uncomfortalbe, but just give it time and you will not be sorry. This will be a future gift...
5	1356134400	I have trouble sleeping, so the Spoonk Mat really helps with that. It relives my stress and gives me a quicker and better night of sleep!
5	1356134400	This is fantastic! It totally relaxes me and I get such a better night's sleep. I've had some tension in my neck for months that is so irritating, but it has completely disappeared since I've started using this. I highly recommend it to anyone! Better than a costly visit to the doc!
5	1356048000	After reading all the reviews, I was convinced I needed this for myself. I have had 1 back surgery, and have 2 degenerative disc's and 2 large buldging disc's.. Well, the first time I laid down on it I thought it was pretty prickely, however I followed the instructions and just as they tell you, the first 5 minutes was slightly uncomfortable. I laid on the mat for approx. 30 minutes, then moved it up to my head and shoulder area and kept it there for about 15 minutes. Well folk's, I can't even tell you how relaxed and at how good I felt ALL OVER.. If you are in anyway hesitant about ordering this.. DON'T BE..I think every adult should have one of these in their home. For the first time in well over a year, I slept so good all night long..As you can see, this Spoonk mat is the one you want to get. I mean really, How often do you see an item with 5 FULL STARS !..Jeannie from AZ.
5	1355961600	I must say the mat is a bit painful initially if you are shirtless. The pain lasts several minutes and then there is an overwhelming warm sensation that follows. After about 5 minutes you just feel very relaxed and could go to sleep. Highly recommended!
5	1355961600	Hi I love the spoonk mat. It helps get rid of my back pain and helps with headaches. The spoonk mat is great because its a natural way to get rid of pain. Highly recommended.
5	1355961600	I tried this based on Food Babe's recommendation, and I'm so happy I did. I love acupuncture and acupressure and I have shoulder and back pain often. I now use this at night right before bed, and it makes my back feel wonderful, relaxes me, and I go to sleep right away.
5	1355961600	I actually enjoy the painful bliss this matt offers. Try putting your feet or hands on it after working up to it and you'll feel very relaxed after!
5	1355875200	I absolutely love my Spoonk Mat! The first time I used it for 30 minutes and I felt instant relief from lower back stiffness. I highly recommend. I'm looking forward to using it tonight for my face.
4	1355875200	That said, this thing works.PRO TIP: Roll your way onto it, if you can. I find rolling myself onto it is much less shocking for my sensory system. Also, I wouldn't recommend adjusting your opinion while on the mat as it is painful.
5	1355788800	I have always been one to struggle with sleep,both falling asleep and then sleeping well. I saw this product advertised in O magazine (frankly, I had never heard of it before). I figured - if Oprah and Dr. Oz recommend it and for the price, it is worth a try at least. Well, it is WELL worth it and then some. It took a bit to get used to but in a short amount of time I found myself craving the feeling of relaxation that it invokes.  Absolutely worth it!
5	1355702400	I purchased this mat after reading reviews on several different ones. This is the most ecofriendly one and that was very important to me. The mat covers from my neck to lower back ( I am 5'5" tall). I have shoulder and neck pain and was hoping this would make a difference. IT DID....even after the 1st use ! This mat is a little interesting to use. For me, I first tried lying on it with a towel rolled under the mat at the top portion for my neck. Then I laid down on it wearing a thin T-shirt. I did not feel much, so I took off the T-shirt, got a zip up sweatshirt, put my arms through it from the front so my back was bare. Then , carefully and slowly, I laid my back and neck onto it. It really was uncomfortable, but in reading the info enclosed with the mat, it stated that the discomfort lasts aprox. 5 min. So, I waited it out ! Amazingly, after about 5 min, I no longer felt the discomfort as intensely and was able to lie on the mat for 35 min. When I got up, I had neck and shoulder pain relief that lasted for hours. I am on this mat daily, and it has made such a big difference in my level of pain.  You need to try it!  Hope this helps some one who is hesitating !
5	1355702400	Wow - purchased several of these on the suggestion of a friend who suffers from terrible back pain.  While it looks like a torture device, it is inexplicably comfortable after the first 3 or 4 minutes.  It relaxes muscles, eases tension and provides a very deep sleep.  Now everyone in the family is getting one for Christmas!  As always with Amazon fulfillment, customer service was top notch and delivery was lightening fast.  Despite my friend's advice to run out and purchase the item at a local brick and mortar store (her exact words were &#34;don't waste time searching on the internet because you won't find a lower price&#34;) Amazon did have it for less and I didn't have to fight the holiday traffic!  Thank you, can't wait til my dad opens his for Christmas! He has chronic back, neck and shoulder pain coupled with arthritis and I've no doubt it will help him too.
1	1355702400	Maybe I'm using this thing wrong but it hurts too much to continue...I gave it a shot, tried 3 times and it just hurts..when does the good feeling start?
5	1355616000	Ever since I've received the Spoonk mat, I've been able to sleep better at night.  It's the equivalent of how I feel after heading to a yoga class.  Totally relaxed.  While there are multiple benefits of the product, this speaks the most highly to me as it leaves me with enough pep to chase my two toddler every day.  I can totally tell a difference in my energy level the next day if I skip it one night. Highly recommend!
5	1355616000	I just received one for my birthday & I was so scared at first! The pressure points are tough but seriously just stick it out for the first few minutes! Breathe through the first few minutes & start with 15 minutes or so until you get used to it. Day 3 of mine & I fell asleep on it! I take melatonin every night.. & the last few nights I honestly haven't needed it! I know it sounds skeptical but it's worth the money!
5	1355616000	I have been using this for a month , and its awesome.....I sleep like a baby. I have purchased for a Christmas gift for family members also.
5	1355529600	I admit I was skeptical and when I first opened it and felt those spiky little discs I was even more unsure. But once I put it under my back while lying in bed I was convinced. It takes a brief moment to go from being &#34;pokey&#34; to relaxing but it does somehow, amazingly relief the pain.I haven't tried it against bare skin and probably won't but even with using it clothed it works wonders.
5	1355529600	I recently bought two of these as gifts and decided to get one for myself.  I have chronic back pain and i used this for 15 minutes and already my pain subsided!  I've never seen something work so fast!  I think they make perfect gifts this holiday season!
5	1355529600	I bought this abiut a week ago and i love it already. I use it for pain im my neck, back and my feet. I use it in the evenings while im watching tv so i dont need to spare extra time to get the benefits. The initial pain when you lay down on the mat is there but its bearable. Im buying one as christmas present for my parents and im sure they'll be happy with the mat as much as i am!
5	1355529600	Been using my Spoonk mat for 3 months.  My back has never felt better.  If you have daily back pain you should try this.
5	1355529600	I've been using this mat for over a week about 30 minutes a day while watching TV.  At first, it is uncomfortable, but you just have to get through the first 5 minutes.  After a week of using it, my back feels much better.  Thanks for making this great product.
5	1355529600	Had not heard of this til I saw a commercial.....believe in acupressure so I thought I'd try.  I love it!  High quality, well-sized and convenient!  Buying more for my friends!
5	1355529600	I have had terrible trouble getting to sleep and have had back problems for several years now. I received my spoonk in the mail yesterday evening and put it to the test. I immediately felt a sense of relaxation. Last night I fell asleep fast and today my back has felt great all day. My husband even tested it out and was equally happy.
5	1355529600	I absolutely enjoy spoonking it puts me to bed every time. Takes some time getting used to but once you do it becomes a part of your daily life.
5	1355443200	I am a disabled Army veteran. I suffer from neck & back disc degeneration to include muscle spasms, sciatica, numbness, arthritis, etc. for over 10 yrs. As with many I have tried just about everything on the market (from trigger point injections to medications)...alas, no relief. A friend of mine (massage therapist) suggested i try accupuncture. I cant afford a holistic method not covered by insurance! So i researched yoga-a related search accupressure mat appeared. I listened to the universe & purchased it. I tried it today for 10 mins (the first 3mins STING(_)) But i perservered. Glad i did. Its now 30 mins since i've tried this mat & i still feel the sensation. Its as if those &#34;little needles&#34; on the pad are trying to aggitate my muscle spasms to provide some relief & help with circulation. Honestly, Its worth a try
5	1355443200	Every night i lay on it, (back, stomach,face), and it feels great and helps the sleep cycle because it calms the body and re-balances our bodies mysterious chemicals. i sometimes use it in the morning as a starter for the day or when im stressed out. Now it is pointy and hurts a little at first but after a day or two it feels wonderful and does relieve stress and such.
1	1355443200	very dissapointed in the color.  i'd ordered a blue one - arrived exactly the same color as shown, gave to my brother. ordered another blue one for me, its a nasty bright green color - not close to the blue, but with a blue cover...
5	1355443200	What an insane concept, my friend had one at his house and I briefly tried it out.  Instantly I was hooked and purchased my Spoonk soon there after.  It works like a charm makes me sleep easier and even makes my tired feet feel rejuvenated.  Thanks Spoonk
2	1355443200	If you're in a lot of pain already and/or really tired and worn out it's perfect. It's too painful to use on a regular basis.
5	1355443200	I saw this mat on Amazon and read the reviews. I decided to try for myself to see what the big deal was. My bed is not the best bed in the whole world so I always wake up a little stiff. When i first layed down on this mat, it hurt. I'm not going to lie. The directions said to breathe and give it 5 minutes. Once I did, I felt a total difference. My back started to tingle and get warm. It was like it was melting away the tension and stress in my back and neck. If I could, I would sleep on the mat. It does really work. If you are looking to get something to help with stress and tension, I would recommend this mat.
5	1355356800	Just received my mat and couldn't wait to test it out. I have a shoulder/neck injury that acts up sometimes. Today was one of those days. I laid on it for 10 minutes not thinking much of the experience but when I sat up... wow... just wow.... significant improvement in the tightness and mobility. I can't wait to try the other routines they suggest in the booklet that comes with it.... morning energizing, night time relaxation, digestive aid, etc, etc
5	1355356800	I purchased a spoonk mat earlier this year.  I am VERY happy with this purchase.  When you first lay on the mat, it is very prickly.  After a few minutes, you forget about the prickles and just sort of melt.  I can't count the number of nights that I have woken up and discovered that I had been asleep for several hours.  This is one of the best purchases I have made.  The mat is a high quality.  The cover is a soft cotton.  I purchased one for my husband (who is usually not open minded about products of this nature).  He also relaxes and falls asleep with the spoonk mat.  I wanted to give the product several months of use before making up my mind about it, I can honestly say it's great.  In fact I just purchased four more to give to my family members for Christmas.
5	1355356800	I love it!!!  I broke my heel last year and used it on my feet and legs and have never felt better.  I also have trouble sleeping and have always needed sleeping pills to sleep and spoonk has helped me sleep without sleeping pills thank you this product has tremendously helped my overall health.  It takes some getting used to but trust me it is worth it! Thank you so much spponk for a better quality of life I can walk without heel pain and sleep without back pain worth  every penny.
5	1355356800	I was reluctant to spend so much on Acupressure mat, but you need to use it to know its worth spending your dollars on the Spoonk Mat. It works great. Over 6000 spikes engineered at good space such that it does not hurt. It looks scary as if sleeping on bed of nails but it is not. You get a nice relaxing feel! I would highly recommend this product to revitalize your mind and body! A good buy indeed!
5	1355356800	I got my Spoonk mat a few weeks ago and it is one of the best purchases I've made for my health. I've been suffering from insomnia due to stress, tension ,and back pain. I just couldn't relax. I tried stretching, yoga, and sleep aids like melatonin and valerian. Some of those helped a bit but not enough. I was browsing for some other solutions and found the Spoonk mat. I have been using it every night before bed and have been sleeping better and better every night. It really breaks up the daily stress and tension I hold in my back. I'm able to get comfortable in my bed and I don't toss and turn all night. The only problem now is that my husband and I are fighting over who gets to use it first!!! And yay for made in USA!
5	1355270400	I'm so excited about this mat.  Some other brands are too sharp but this one feels good right from the start.
5	1355184000	Quick results, felt much more energetic and relaxed after two days and motivated me to do other healthy activities. Great way to jump start new healthy routine
5	1355184000	I have been suffering pain from fibromyalgia for 30 years . I knew when I saw this product on Doctor Oz  I could benefit from this accupressure mat. I just got and LOVE IT.
5	1355184000	My husband was recently diagnosed with bulging discs in his lower back.  Add to this the fact that he has arthritis in the same area and you've got a guy who has a lot of chronic back pain.I hate to see him suffering, so I was willing to try anything.  I did some googling and read accounts of others who gained relief from accupuncture and accupressure.  Well, with our work schedule and commutes, there was no way he would be able to get to regular accupuncture appointments, so I continued to search for solutions.By chance, I found the Spoonk for sale on another website and thought "I bet that's cheaper on Amazon!"  As usual, it was.  I ordered it and it arrived the next day - what a great surprise!My husband tried it the day it came.  As others have reported, he said it was really intense for the first few minutes.  However, once he got used to it, it clearly became very relaxing.  We've both noted that his back gets very warm as he uses the mat.  Perhaps that's how accupressure works...by creating heat in the affected area that helps reduce inflammation and pain.  I have no idea, but I'm happy to see him getting benefits from it!I would definitely recommend the Spoonk mat to friends/family/strangers on the street who are looking for a natural way to augment their pain management.
5	1355097600	I like this mat because it's the perfect size for me; I'm 5'3&#34;.  The mat fits my back fully with just enough extra to encompass my neck.  I have been using the mat for two weeks and have enjoyed very deep sleep. The deep sleep came once I built up a tolerance and was able to stay on the mat for at least 20 minutes. Two nights in a row I did not use the mat and my sleep was restless.  I have used the mat mostly on my back.  Because I have a small frame, the mat is a little wider than I am.  This is good because all of my upper torso fits on the mat but not so good because of the sensitive skin on my sides pronounces the uncomfortableness.  But, with conscious relaxation the discomfort resides after about 5 minutes just as indicated by the instructions.
5	1355097600	can I give 10 stars????  this mat is AWESOME!  it took awhile to get used to, by that I mean I had to start out lying on it with a tshirt & a cami under that.  after a few times with 2 layers, I went down to one and it feels great.  I have actually fallen asleep on this thing.  I'm not sure how to fold it up to utilize the carry bag -- all the plastic pointy things get caught on the mesh of the bag.
5	1355097600	I purchased this product for my wife and we both greatly enjoy it.  I would definitely purchase this product again.
5	1355011200	I have been dealing with chronic low back, mid back and neck pain for years. I also endured a severe disc extrusion in my low back last year which required emergency surgery. Due to the surgery/affect on nerves, I have additional pain in my calves and hips. This product has offered me more relief on a continual basis versus massage. I have been told to try acupuncture, and this has replaced that idea for the time being. I love it so much I am ordering one for my mother for Christmas!
5	1355011200	This product already started to work after the 1st use and is truly superior to other brands. I suffer from lower back pain and I have never found a (non-drug) product for pain relief that works as good as this. Thanks again, Spoonk!
5	1355011200	Wow, Wow, I can't say enough of how wonderful I feel only after using the Spoonk Mat, This is just as good as a massage, acupuncture and chiropractic care. This product is outstanding it has made me a total believer, I am not writing this for a prize. I spend over 40 hrs on a computer a week, my neck, shoulders and middle/lower back take a severe beating, I have found a product that has increased my energy level, my pain is 98% gone and I have more flex ability, I just feel 99% better in every way. I am so convinced of this product I shared it with friends and co-workers and they immediately bought several not one several, they too are believers and were instantly hooked, can't say I blame them. Also I received my mat in  3 days what service! I am 100% a HAPPY GIRL! Thanks a million!
5	1354924800	I've had this mat a little over a month now and I'm still trying to be skeptical about it but just can't be. I can only describe the first time I used it as  experiencing what I imagine feeling the thrumming of the drums of Mordor must be like.  I've been slogging through semester end deadlines and finals prep and this has helped energize me on too early mornings after late, late nights.  After staying up until 6AM then finding I could not sleep, I also used it to help fall deeply asleep and felt alert and just about perky after 3 hours of sleep - and I don't do perky. It's also helped with neck and shoulder pain from hours and hours at the keyboard in a less than ergonomic position.  I didn't find it to be painful as some reviews suggest but I also am not moving around on it to get a back scratch either. Love this thing, still mystified that it works but it does, definitely recommend.
5	1354924800	Quick shipment, reasonable price, recommend this mat to everyone. My wife uses it every day and very much relaxed afterward.
5	1354838400	Gotta have great product! Must have for relaxing and sore back! Feels wierd at first but then awesome! Accupressure great therapy!
5	1354838400	My sister suggested this for back spasms and pain.  We have deterioration  of lower backs and disks.  You lay on the mat for 15-20 minutes and the discomfort decreases so you do not have to take pain medication.  It helps things relax better than muscle relaxers.  I still occasional have to take medication for the pain, but maybe 1 x per week..
5	1354838400	I was hesitant to purchase this but decided to give it a try.  It does take some getting used to but is very relaxing once you do.I use it at night mostly and have fallen asleep on it.  It seems to help me sleep and is invigorating when used in the morning.
5	1354752000	This is one of the best products I have ever bought and the FIRST product I have ever wrote a review on. To keep it short and sweet....BUY THIS! It is a life saver for people like me with pain and/or stress. You will not be dissapointed. Trust me.
5	1354752000	Like other reviewers, I was apprehensive when I took this mat out of the box...those little suckers are sharp! My curious cat would agree, and he probably will not walk across it again.I have suffered from back pain for over a decade, the result of a severely herniated L5 disk. I have spent many hours in physical therapy, yoga, chiropractor, and massage. All have provided relief, and all are pretty costly, especially when visited on an ongoing basis. However, relief is always fleeting, and although I no longer have back pain (thankfully due to surgery), I am constantly tense and knotted, partially because of the disk, and partially from sitting at a computer all day long. I have learned about my back along the way - I know exactly where I hold tension, what muscles I have problems with, and I know deep tissue work is the most beneficial for me.This mat is wonderful - it takes some getting used to, but you have to stick to it and relax. Place your body directly down on it, do not lay back and then plan to shift - it ain't happening. After an anxious first minute, it will start to feel ok. Then it will start to feel good. Then you will forget how it feels at all because you will be so RELAXED. The first time I used it, I could feel a slight pulsing or small spasm in the muscles along my spine as they began to release. The closest thing I could compare it to is a cranio-sacral session I once had where my back muscles were manipulated to the point of release. It is a pretty neat feeling. And it is great that you can do it on your own, at home, instead of paying for a therapy session. Does it replace a massage? Of course not. Is it an excellent alternative or supplement? Absolutely. And because I like pretty strong pressure during a massage, I am ok with those little sharp suckers.After that first session, I immediately went to sleep shortly after I got off the mat. And it was a great sleep. I thought it was a coincidence - I mean, really, this little mat is going to make me sleepy? However, the next night was the same effect. And I could not be happier.
5	1354752000	I bought my first Spoonk at my local Health Food Store after standing on the trial mat.  Near the end of my day of massaging clients, I soon found myself thinking about laying on my Spoonk and feeling that special moment when my whole body and nervous system quietly become calm and peaceful.This last Thanksgiving I visited my son and his girlfriend. I brought my Spoonk and introduced it to them.  I left my Spoonk with them so they could continue to relax their computer generated tight muscles.  Well, I lasted four days without my Spoonk before I turned to Amazon and placed a prime order.  I also sent one to my daughter in MA. Now I am looking forward to receiving my travel Spoonk so I can take it with me when I travel to San Francisco for Ortho-Bionomy workshops!
5	1354752000	I didn't know what to expect with this acupressure mat but I am very happy with this purchase. It is great for relaxation. I also have noticed an increase in energy from using it. I highly recommend this product.
5	1354752000	I don't have any major health complaints, but came across this and was intrigued by all the raving reviews. I love it! When my muscles are sore or stiff, I lay on this for awhile and everything just relaxes. I use it with a light t-shirt, and don't experience any pain like some other reviewers said. If you tend to like back scratches, you'll love this.A couple of added benefits I discovered: It's padded, but the pad slides in the fabric with the dots on it, so it's easily removable through the velcro opening on the top. This makes it easy to wash, and I can also travel with just the outer piece and not have to take the pad. With just the outer piece, I can lay it on a bed and have it work the same way. It can get small enough to take on carry-ons with all my clothes, easily. I also roll it up with the dots on the outside, and use it as a neck pillow. It eases away shoulder and neck stiffness, and rubbing my head on it gives a great scalp massage (even through long, thick hair).If you're looking for a massage mat, this is a great choice!
5	1354665600	Great product. Provides strong feeling of relief surprisingly quickly when used on back. Somewhat intense feeling on bare skin, in a good way, which can be reduced as needed by placing some thin fabric between skin and mat. High quality construction and aesthetically pleasing to boot. Recommended.
5	1354665600	This is amazing! The first time I tried it I could feel the waves of relaxation that I usually get with an acupuncture treatment. Now I use it every night before bed and I get very relaxed and sleepy. I also stand on it (with socks on) to get the circulation moving in my feet. I am so very happy with this product.
5	1354665600	I waited a long time before deciding to purchase this item. I am so glad that I purchased it and am sorry that I waited so long to do so. I use it every morning after my 25 minute yoga session for deep relaxation. It really stimulates the nerves in the back and neck and gets me ready for a GREAT day!  Thanks for a great product!
5	1354665600	I bought this for my girlfriend, who has a ruptured disk from a job accident. She was skeptical at first because she had never tried anything like this. But after a few minutes of laying on it, it started to really help her intense pain. She now uses it almost everyday for about 15 to 20 minutes, and it definitely has helped her pain so far. It is something that she will keep on using often.
1	1354665600	Doesnt really do that much for the price, a good massage would be better for me than laying on poky things
5	1354579200	I have been a long time sufferer of mid and upper back pain, and have gone regularly to the chiropractor and massage therapist for years. While I love getting adjusted, my insurance only covers so many visits per year, and sometimes it's just not enough, especially after starting a desk job that has me typing for several hours per day. I had been looking for something to help me "get by" between visits, and come across this idea. After doing lots of review searching, I decided that this was the mat for me! I was a bit skeptical about whether it would actually make a difference, but I figured I'd try it out and got one as a gift for my  birthday. When it arrived I was a bit worried because, as my hand brushed against the mat while unwrapping it, I discovered the spikes are really sharp! It took a little adjusting to the idea and feeling the first few times, but as I was able to relax more and release all my muscle tension while lying down, I was amazed at the difference it made! No more wondering if I could make it a few more days until my next adjustment! And, when I do get adjusted at the chiropractor, it is much easier to get everything in line than it ever has been! My chiro says it's because the muscles are being "trained" to relax more and dissipate the tension with regular use of the mat, which helps them free up the spine - hence great adjustments. Love this mat, wish I had gotten one sooner!
5	1354579200	I was doubtful at first about the acupressure mat, but after one use, I was sold.  I felt immediate relief from pain with my strained back muscle after use.  After reading lots of other reviews, I decided to purchase this particular brand of acupressure mat, given glowing recommendations from Dr. Oz and others.
5	1354579200	I got exactly what I was looking for when i ordered the Spoonk. I needed acupuncture-like pressure around my neck and base of my head to help with my chronic migraines. I recieved my order today in the mail and I can tell already that the SPoonk will provide A LOT of relief for me. I'm going to order the neck roll one for extra support!
5	1354579200	I have had acupuncture and chiropractic treatments.  This Spoonk does wonders for my back and shoulders.  A bit prickly at first, but after a few minutes there is an unbelieveable warm feeling, and very easy to fall asleep while using the Spoonk; after a few uses, it is easy to get used to the initial feeling.  We bought one, and ordered two more for Christmas presents.  What a great product.
5	1354492800	Once you get over the initial positioning, it's very relaxing.  The mat is aLittle on the small side, but works very well to circulate the blood andRelax you.  Since I started using the Spoonk Mat, I have had less tensionIn my back and neck allowing me to sleep through the entire night.My husband has a great deal of tension in his neck and has found thatBy rolling the Spoonk Mat under his neck, usually lying on it for 15-20 minutes at a time,Relieves the  tension and many times eliminates his headaches.  We love the mat and theResults it has produced since we purchased it a month ago.  Dr OZ was right!
5	1354492800	I saw this at a local health food store and wanted it.  I looked on Amazon and found it for half the cost of my local store!It shipped fast and is wonderful!Order yours soon you will love it!
5	1354406400	I love the Spoonk mat. The sensory stimulus is provides is very beneficial to all over well being. It is a little intimidating when first received, but once you get past that, you will never regret buying it.
5	1354406400	I bought this for my 22 yo daughter for Christmas.  She is an Art Major at a college, and spends many back-breaking days and nights bent in different ways, working on sculpture projects, for hrs. and hrs..  I tried it out for 2 days, and  it was a very strange concept.  Like HOW can laying on hundreds of tiny spikes make you feel Better.?  It DID relax me, eased my back pain,  and made me feel warm and sleepy, (I used it before bed time).  The mat felt so good I decided to give it to her today, early.  She laid on it about 10 mins. and loved it !  She said it felt weird, but her back felt better!  Shipping was very fast.  I'll be ordering another  1 for me soon!
5	1354406400	I bought a spoonk about a month ago after hearing a constantly co-worker rave about it... I had to see for myself! I am SO glad I did. There is nothing better than using my spoonk during a stressful week or after a hard work out-- it clears my mind and makes me feel like a totally new person! It definitely does hurt the first time you use it, but only for the first few minutes. Stick with it and I promise you will be very happy you did.I let my boyfriend use it tonight and he liked it so much he stole it from me for the week! I'm also going to buy one for my mom for Christmas. It works wonders for body aches and pains and makes me sleep like a baby.Seriously, stop reading reviews and just buy it already!
5	1354406400	Great product, really does ease back/neck tension in very little time.  Read other positive reviews for getting acclaimated to using the Spoonk. Have found it helpful for tension headaches as well.  It's a good thing and worth the money!
5	1354233600	I've had my Spoonk mat for about a week now and absolutely love it! I use it in the evening before bed. Like others have said, it's more than a bit uncomfortable when I first lie down on it, but within a minute or so I start to feel an pleasant warm sensation, not just on my back, but my whole body. Before long I no longer feel my body. Maybe it's the effect of the endorphins released in response to the initial pain. That alone is kind of addicting, but what makes me want to keep using this is the unanticipated effect of a reduced appetite during the day. I eat when I'm stressed, I eat when I'm bored, and I often seem to be thinking about food. Not so this week. And the only thing I'm doing differently is using the Spoonk mat. I don't know if it's some sort of placebo effect, but I didn't go into this thinking my eating habits would change. That was just an unexpected yet pleasant surprise. I am very happy with my purchase and if it ever wears out (which I doubt it will) I will definitely get another one.
5	1354233600	I use it daily to relax and sleep sleep very deeply now. I wake up refreshed. My gift to me
5	1354147200	I bought this for someone else as a gift and had to try it out myself.  Initially it is uncomfortable, but give it a few minutes and the intensity lessens.  I got up with a feeling of warmth and relaxation after only 5 minutes.  My children both love it too.  I have to buy one for my family now!
4	1354147200	This mat is amazing!  I carry so much tension in my back and can't afford to get regular massages so this was the perfect buy! It was uncomfortable for the first 2-3 minutes but then it was replaced by heat (like of a heating pad). Its very relaxing and I'm hoping to gift a few of these. Get one!
4	1354147200	i have been very pleased with my spoonk mat.  it has been very beneficial with stress related back and neck pain.  i would recommend a mat to othersCotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag
5	1354060800	I've been using the mat for a few days now and I feel the difference.15 min per day and you feel so energized!I also like the color, the fabric and pretty thrilled that there is a carry-bag that comes with it.
5	1354060800	I received this product today and used it immediately.  I have MS and fibromyalgia.  I have not been able to find anything that will give me pain relief.  Just in the first minutes I could feel my body starting to relax, if you allow your body to relax, breath deeply as instructed you will notice a great relief! Definitely worth the money.
5	1353974400	I was actually looking for another product (some sleep headphones) and the other suggestions came up and the acupressure mats being one of them. There are several different products but this seemed to have the best reviews for high quality.  I was excited to try it out prepared by the warnings of  major ouch ness I wore a thin tshirt but found I really didn't need it! it's great and relaxing and really helps with my lower back and neck pain.  My poor cat however when he of course wanted to explore the new house item would probably give it negative stars ;) I suppose you could use it to keep pets off things also! Anyway, I think my next purchase will be the pillow.
5	1353974400	I bought this for my girlfriend who loves it but I use it too, great for your feet and to lay on top, but make sure and use a tee shirt. AAAAA+++++
5	1353974400	The Spoonk helps me relieve the stress that builds up over the course of the day and sleep more deeply.  It's also great for relieving upper back and neck tension from looking at a computer screen all day.
5	1353974400	This mat does relax you after a session.  I was skeptical about lying on something like this before bedtime, but it does relax you all over after a short session.  Also, I bought this for sciatica.  It's good in the sense that if any kind of pain makes you tense up, this will help you reset and relax core muscles that might be tight or in spasm.  You must be careful with elbows when reclining however, the plastic prongs are very sharp.
5	1353974400	I recently received this mat after a friend raved about it. I'm home with a toddler all day, and so I look for easy ways to relax, and thought I'd give this a try. I am already hooked!The mat itself appears durable, well-constructed, and fits nicely into the travel bag that it comes with. The first few times that I used it, especially with the acupressure points against bare skin, felt a little prickly but not painful. After a few minutes of resting on them, I could feel tingling and warmth and relaxation. Those feelings stayed for an hour or more after lying on the mat, while my skin did not stay sore or sensitive for long at all.I would recommend this mat to anyone looking for an easy and inexpensive massage or relaxation tool. It is small and light enough to keep in your office, car, etc. and use for a quick pick-me-up or during a daytime meditation session. Well worth the purchase!
5	1353974400	Makes the aches and pain go away! Cant believe it but it really does make life a little better. My back feels free and loose. Better than a massage and it only takes about 5 min to feel relief!!
5	1353888000	I am amazed at the quick results I have gotten from this mat. I even had a friend use it and they noticed a huge improvement in their shoulder pains.
5	1353801600	I was diagnosed with Chronic Lyme a couple of years ago and have tried many things to relieve the nerve pain on my back. At one point putting on a t-shirt was too painful for me.  So I've been in treatment and things are really improving, but I found the Spoonk mat and have to admit I love it! I was nervous the first time using it knowing how sensitive my back was to touch, but with a slow deep breath and a thin sheet over it (recommended for first time use) I was able to lay on it!  Each time I use it I get more and more confident and I feel like the nerves in my back are being stimulated to be not as sensitive.  All that extra blood flow has really helped me and my constant pain. I have also noticed it helps my anxiety that comes along with Lyme and treatment. Needless to say, I completely give this item my Lymie Stamp of Approval!  Oh, and I'm not the only fan in my house, my husband loves it too!
3	1353715200	It is what it is.  I've used it several times, and I lost interest in continuing to play with it.  I'm guessing that maybe it has to be used on a more regular basis to benefit.  I'd never try to use it on bare skin, though.  May be this just isn't MY cup of tea!
5	1353715200	I actually ordered this accupressure mat for my neck and back, but have found it even more useful for relaxation.  Within a couple minutes of getting on the mat my back begins to warm up and I start relaxing.  It is almost impossible to stay awake!  My son, who has lots of back pain, used the mat while he was here for Thanksgiving and his back was so much improved after just two times that he ended up taking it with him, which means I am about to order another one for myself.  I highly recommend the Spoonk Mat if you have back/neck pain or insomnia.  It is a drug free way to help with all of the above:-)
5	1353628800	use it all the time, good for every thing not just a sore back, great for ciculation problems i have
5	1353542400	never tired this before seems to work, felt like laying on gravel a little bit but the pain does go away and a warm sensation happens also not comfortable when you get off the mat. and i like free stuff and you get a free travel size after a review is left! :)
5	1353542400	The Spoonk mat is wonderful.  I have used it on my lower back and hips to relieve sciatica pain.  It is very relaxing.  I am so happy I purchased the mat.  What a wonderful product.
5	1353456000	My friend recommended this to me as a de-stressor.  I am high stressed, type A person and broke down to buy this.  I never sleep through the night, as I wake multiple times a night.  Now i fall asleep on my spoonk and wake after an hour or 2 and remove it from the bed and then I am out for the night.  In the morning, I wake and lay on it for about 20-30 minutes before i get out of bed and my body doesnt feel that sluggish feeling when you sleep for 8+ hours.I got it for my best friend and she is in love with it.  MUST HAVE!!!  I promise you.
3	1353456000	Overall the product is great, but when you have options to virtually identical yet cheaper alternatives it's a hard sale to ask for another Lincoln bill.  Possibly, the difference in price is attributed to the appearance of the product on Dr. Oz's show.  I do believe from my recollection, however, that the Nayoya has been around longer.  Just searching for accupressure mats there are cheaper alternatives still with the Ashoka name.  I'm sure these are all the same.  The foam inside the Nayoya and the Spoonk appear to be the same kind of cheap foam you find most household goods.  So does that mean that all of these use the same eco-friendly plant based foam as touted by Spoonk?  Maybe someone wants to chime in on this.  And would the difference of plant based and non-plant based foam be the selling difference.As far as whether or not these accu-pressure mat actually work.  I have 4 people in my circle rotating two of these out.  Three of them being women.  Two women (one in 60s and the other a mother of an infant) have serious back shoulder issues requiring deep tissue massages.  I can't get to a longterm review with them just yet but right now they're in love with it.  Finding that it warms their back and relaxes their shoulder so much that they feel refreshed.  Of the four women, gets knots in her shoulder blades all the time.  She falls asleep on the mat but the verdict is out on whether or not it's making a difference on the shoulder knots.  So far, the women that used the mat while laying in bed seem to be getting the best results, but that's hardly scientific.  I'm the final 4th person and as a 175lb male with limited use.  I'll post back once I get more definitive results.
5	1353369600	I could not believe reviews that stated they fell asleep on this mat. It appears to be a strange torture device. I quickly found out that the glowing reviews are correct! I, too, dozed off on this mat when on my back. We all liked the feeling of standing ot it or resting our feet on it while sitting. Very relaxing and soothing after the initial little shock. One of us liked lying on his face and stated it was stimulating. This mat is GREAT for soothing aches and pains and we highly recommend it!
5	1353369600	I decided to purchase this mat based on the previous reviews.  I just received it and have used it twice.  I can say that the pressure the mat provides does provide relaxation.  I suffer from neck pain and am excited to see whith continued use, what sort of relief this mat will provide.  I carry bag is great as well!The seller shipped super fast.
5	1353369600	I get eye aches from studying all morning and a migraine threatens to hit me nearly every day.  I heard about this mat and because of all the five star reviews, I got mine a few weeks ago and the first day I used it my eye ache and impending migraine went away.  I was not sure if it was the mat so I kept using it since that day and yes, it does keep my migraine at bay and help my sore eyes.Yesterday I washed it and was missing it terribly as it dried in the sun.  I put it back together while it was still damp because my head was starting to hurt and my eyes were sore.As expected after using it for about 20-30 minutes all my pains went away and I was fine again.I LOVE THIS MAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  It definitely costs less than any medications, doctor visits or whatever else I have tried for migraines.My husband tried it and he slept much better and then bought his own so we do not have to share anymore!
5	1353369600	don't let the 6120 spikes scare you... once you lay down on it, you hardly feel it at all and you would wonder how you lived without it.  i felt relief in my lower back the next day.  i would definitely recommend this to coworkers and friends!
5	1353369600	I wasn't too sure when I bought it but needed to try something.  It hurts for the first 5 minutes or so then its like it becomes a heat pack and feels really nice.  I think it helped my back pain.
5	1353283200	Item is great!Thanks so much! Relieves stress and definitely promotes amazing sleep! My husband loves it ! So glad I purchased it
5	1353024000	I like it!  I like the pain!  I used it for three days after I had a neck spasm and it did the same as two chiro appts. would have.
5	1353024000	I have tried accupressure and love it but it's expensive.  This mat works great and I can stay on the mat as long as I want.
5	1352851200	I have to say that this product has definitely exceeded my expectations! I have long suffered from aching back muscles, caused primarily by sitting at my desk all day. By bedtime, I am often looking for the Advil to help me overcome the discomfort of tight, restricted back muscles. However, now that I have my accupressure mat, I find that I can use this as an alternative to pain medication.There is no doubt that it does take some getting used to, and every time I lie back on it, it is akin to the trepidation of easing yourself into a somewhat cold swimming pool. It can be a minor shock to your system, but in no time, you get used to it.The construction of the mat seems to be excellent, and I highly recommend this mat as a pre-sleep stress and tension reliever.
5	1352851200	I'm an energy practitioner, and I was astonished at how strongly this product could move energy within my body. Very happy with the Spoonk so far. It also manages to be really strong in digging into the body, while also being incredibly relaxing. I fell asleep lying on the mat the first time I used it.
5	1352678400	I love my acupressure mat.  My massage therapist recommended it to me after using it and seeing significant pain reduction in his back.  I received mine 2 weeks ago and have used it everyday since.  It has improved my stress level and I am sleeping much better every night.  I have chronic back pain from trauma 30 years ago and I have seen greater flexibility and reduced pain since using this mat.  It does take getting used to.  It is very uncomfortable for the first 2 minutes or so, but after that initial period, it is totally relaxing. I highly recommend this product.
5	1352678400	At first the sharp points are uncomfortable, but after a few minutes a numb tingling sensation takes the place of the discomfort and tension, aches and pain drift away and are replaced by a pleasant drowsy feeling. The Spoonk Mat is on my Christmas and Birthday lists for friends and family.
5	1352419200	I have back pain like almost everyone else in America. I have given birth to eight children, have a small frame, have a bulging disc in my neck and another one that is herniated, which causes severe muscle spasms in my back. I have a somewhat stressful life because I am a perfectionist; since nothing is perfect I always seem to get stressed (which causes muscle tension). I sit at a computer WAY too long due to my occupation. I have had a bad posture since my lazy teenage years (in the 80s) of watching television. I never did get over that bad habit of slouching (right along with drinking out of the milk jug) after all these years despite my mom's warnings to "sit up straight!" - Should have listened...I threw my back out about four years ago while bending over and I have never really been the same since. I have gone to physical therapy (and they 'bout killed me - every time she did some particular thing to some certain section of my lower back, I could not turn my head/neck for three days - quit that real quick), muscle relaxers (finally found one that actually works), ibuprofen (works pretty good), and pain pills (they don't really help). So because I am too young to just not be active, I have attempted to remedy my problem through various alternative (to doctors and pills) techniques (i.e., yoga, stretching, weights).While sitting on my butt slouching at the computer the other day looking for Christmas toys in the internet (specifically Amazon), I ran across this mat. Not sure how I found it, but I did. So I thought "Hmmm, I have been wanting to do acupuncture (but I can't afford it at this time) and this thing looks like it does the same thing almost, so I think I will try it". Blue was cheaper than Magenta, so I ordered a blue one.Got it yesterday. Laid down in it "o-u-c-h", but I expected that. After a minute it was okay - just had to remember not to slide around on it into a more comfortable position lest I scratch my back to shreds. Got up after about three minutes because I know there is power in alternative therapies and I did not want to over-do it. Strange sensation after getting up and walking into the next room - my back actually felt "loose". I thought "Hmmm, well maybe it is just since I am not used to it" so I figured I would lay longer later in the evening and 'check' to see if I got the same result.Yep, sure did get the same result. I have laid on it today as well and feel the exact same release of tension in my back. In addition to that wonderful benefit, I have also noticed that I can breathe deeper. Not sure why and I do not know if other reviewers also noticed that. Maybe because it loosens the diaphragm and one can breathe deeper breathes like that. I have allergies and my nasal passages seem to be not as swollen after laying on this thing. So that may be an unintended side effect, but it is great.One thing to be aware of is it does leave my skin red and feeling as if I have a sunburn. I anticipate that over time that will not happen as my skin gets used to this. When I am laying on it, I can feel heat radiating from my back. I would like to think this is a nice little thing that happens when your back is relaxing (because heat always feels good on sore muscles), but it may be from my skin turning red ;0)Overall, this is an amazing creation. Someone was smart and I appreciate the research done by the maker to try to create a product to help those of us in this world who need such a relief from our pain.My opinion for readers in the decision-making stage of buying a product is this:Buy this and try it. Do not give up after one day because your skin is tender. I would say probably try it daily for two weeks before you make a decision (just like the mattress manufacturer's tell us). I would purchase it from a retailer that has a good return policy (as I would purchase EVERYTHING else) so you feel comfortable when buying it and do not have to worry about wasted money if it is not right for you. I bought this mainly because of all the five-star reviews (and curiosity). I think it may actually be able to solve a number of issues present within the general population. It is a heck of a lot cheaper than meds or doctor visits.Wish you the best in finding relief for your aches and pains (that we all have). God bless and have a great day full of sunshine!  :0)UPDATE: As of June 19, 2013 - I would still recommend this product.
5	1352160000	Skeptical at first, but I find myself using my Spoonk every night on neck, back, and feet. Don't know the how behind why it works, just know it makes feel better.  The seller shipped this product promptly to me and I had it within three days. Also like the fact that Spoonk is made in USA.
5	1352073600	My Spoonk arrived today, I've been suffering from back pain sustaned from an auto injury for some time, and I've tried everything to alleviate the pain. FINALLY SOMETHING WORKS!!! I love this mat, I will tell everyone about the benefits it offers.
5	1351900800	Love love love this mat! I have spent over $4000.00 in Chiropractic treatments and all adjustments never made my back feel this good. After using this mat for less than 5 minutes (had to take care of my crying baby) I stood up with a straight back (typically my back is slightly hunched to lessen the pain) and NO PAIN!!! I was super excited! I will be using this mat on a regular basis as unfortunately the pain did come back (to be expected though). Each time I use it I feel amazing. I believe that with time this mat will be the answer to my prayers for healing my chronic upper back pain. I highly highly recommend it. Thank you so much Spoonk for inventing such a tool.
5	1351814400	So I bought this item as a birthday gift for my mother. Once the item came, I had to try it out first to make sure my mother would like it. Laying down on it for the first time felt somewhat uncomfortable-you know, with thousands of sharp pieces of plastic cuddling your back-but after readjusting myself a bit and giving my head a nice pillow to rest on, I was amazed with how good it felt. That uncomfortable feeling quickly manifest itself into a soothing tingling all across my back. I was sadden a bit when I remembered this was a gift for my mother! I'll most likely get one for myself soon, maybe as an early Christmas present. lolz.
5	1351814400	Using an acupressure mat turned out to be considerably more painful than I'd anticipated, but the pain only lasts for about five minutes. After that, you do start feeling very warm and relaxed. I almost fell asleep on the mat the second time I used it.
5	1351814400	I just want to preface this review with I do not typically write reviews, but I do read them.  I have been going back and forth with this purchasing this mat.  I did not see it on Dr. Oz or The Doctors.  I just happened upon it.  When I saw it I was intrigued.  I have been to a couple of acupuncturists for varying issues from migranes to back pain.  They have all yielded positive results.  Since having my son 17 months ago, I have been suffering from paralyzing lower back pain.  The sharp pains and muscle contractions catch my so off guard at times I just freeze and can't move.  Every morning for the past couple of months, I have to rock forward and back to get up and out of the bed.  I am in my 30s so I feel like I am way too young to be going through this already.  So I purchased the mat after I saw it again while I was on vacation in Miami and took it as a sign that I just need to try it out.  I got it last night and couldn't wait to put it to the test.  I read the reviews about how painful it was, so I prepared my mind as I took my shirt off and laid down on the mat.  I am not going to lie it is not like lying on a bed of roses, but to me it was not that bad, I did have to reposition myself a couple of times until I got it right.  I know you think that I am getting paid by Spoonk for what I am about to say and believe me like I said in the beginning, I am not one that typically writes reviews, but my pain in my back was gone after one experience.  I thought it was just my imagination and no this couldn't be real.  So I did not say anything last night.  I had other family members try it out too.  And they too had a similar experience.  I am not sure what happened or what those little plastic spokes hit in my back but this thing really worked.  I am still in shock.  For the final test, I had to wait for the morning.  And guess what, I did not have to rock myself out of bed.  I said to myself, I have got to tell others about this because if anyone is experiencing the pain that I have endured for the past couple of months, they would want to know that there is relief without having to pop ibuprofen all day.  And if you are anything like me, you research EVERYTHING before you make purchases.  You sleep on it and think do I really need this?  Well I am not an employee of Spoonk, nor am I the inventor, I wish I were though.  I am definitely going to add this to the Christmas gift list and I think I may purchase another for myself to keep at work just in case I need to go to my happy place.  I am a believer!!!!!!!
5	1351555200	Received the product the next day as ordered.  Used it behind my back sitting in a chair.  It touched every where needing to be touchhed.  The discomfort from the spoonk went away shortly.  Got very relaxed and sleepy. Significantlly lessened intense shoulder pain.  Relieved itchy back. Light weight, portable, love it.
5	1351555200	Just received my 3rd spoonk mat...and it's not because I'm wearing them out but because as I gush and go on about how wonderful I feel after sleeping on the mat and beneficial it has been for my achy shoulders and neck to friends and family...they take the mat home and don't return it!!! It's all good though, I love my friends and family and I figure everyone can benefit from using the Spoonk.
5	1351555200	I use this at the office for relaxing between clients.  Be sure to wear a shirt first time or two; by third able to lay flat and instantly relax.  Haven't tried the face exercise, don't know that I will.  Used a sheet over it for reflexology clients to lay upon while receiving footwork; they loved it!
5	1351555200	I purchased this for my husband because of the MANY reviews & the 5-star ratings this product got...It was affordable so I decided to get it.  It was kind of intimidating to feel all those pressure point as I watched my husband lay on it - he has a high tolerance for pain...He laid there for about 10 minutes & the next thing I know he fell asleep on the acupressure mat!!  He said it was really relaxing & loved it!  I, on the other hand hope to try this out after my pregnancy!  The mat really seems to relax him cause there hasn't been a single time where he hasn't fell asleep on it! :)
5	1351209600	It feels relax when you just walk for 5-10 minutes after huge work day. I suggest everyone to "Go for it". Its good exercises after heavy schedule to be relaxed.
5	1350777600	[[ASIN:B0052YK8RO Cotton Pagoda Blue Acupressure Massage Mat with carry-bag]]I purchased this mat as there is no longer any acupuncturist anywhere close to where I live. I am not sorry. My back is no longer painful 24/7 and I sleep much better. Residual problems left by a botched Morton's Neuroma surgery are going away. I am able to wear socks again as my feet hurt so much for the last 5 years since I had the surgery that I always had to have bare feet in my shoes and winter boots. It does take a bit of getting used to but the results are worth it!! Spoonk-I love you!
5	1350691200	I am happy to share my experience with the Spoonk acupressure mat, I bought one for neck and shoulder pain I have had for three years due to an automobile accident. I have had limited mobility in my neck and have had many headaches and pain due to the accident. I laid on the mat for 20 minutes the first night and then in the morning, in all honesty I feel better today than I have in years. The mat caused blood circulation to the pinched nerve and immediately felt relief. I am so glad I purchased the mat, do not hesitate to buy this if you have had any back issues, migraines or pain. Awesome product!!
5	1350604800	I saw this mat by accident and after reading the reviews I thought, why not... I'll check it out.  Since I've had acupuncture before, I knew that that worked and so I figured, why not try this out.  My husband bought this for me as a birthday present and I LOVE IT.Like most reviewers, getting used to the mat on bare skin is a little painful at first, but after a few minutes, you really can feel the blood start to flow great.  I'm a pretty high strung person and it takes a lot for me to relax and laying on this mat I almost find myself falling asleep.I had some really bad pain in my hip and lower back recently and after about 50 minutes on this mat, my back felt great and the pain was virtually gone....and without taking any Advil!I find myself using this mat almost daily.  I love it.I also let my husband use it and he loved it also.  He did fall asleep the first time he used it. :)
2	1350604800	none special, it does what says but highly overrated and way to expensive for simple flat plastic mat.Would not this again on similar products.
5	1350518400	Utterly relaxing,  blissful wonderful. Hurts a bit at first but then takes you off to another place quickly. More relaxing than anything I've ever tried including yoga, meditation,  hypnosis alone,  but increases the insensity of those activities with spoonk mat. Loved it so much got one for my mom, she thinks it's awesome too. It feels amazing!
5	1350432000	The last 10+ years I have had issues with what I would consider mild, but constant back pain. I have learned to live with it, but the last few weeks I have had pain in my back and right shoulder & arm, which has limited use of that arm. I'm not sure of the cause, but I do have a doctors appointment scheduled. In the meantime, I decided to check out massagers and came across the acupressure mat. Based on the ratings and other reviews, I figured I would give it a try.It arrived yesterday and, of course, I immediately wanted to try it out. At first with a t-shirt on, and then I figured I would try it without a layer of fabric, as recommended in the instructions. Initially, it was painful and after you lay down on it you can't simply shift around to get more comfortable. However, I stuck with it and after a minute or so the pain and burning sensation subsided and I was ok laying there (although I do not recommend letting dogs be around you as it can be rather painful if they decide to jump on your chest while you are laying on the mat). I only stayed on the mat for about 10 minutes, but when I got up I noticed I didn't have as much pain in my right shoulder and was able to raise my arm up again!It didn't cure the pain, but I am convinced it helped. I am keeping my doctors appointment, but in the meantime, I am going to keep using this to help relieve some of the pain!
5	1350259200	The company sure has a FUNNY name! The product is good quality and easy to carry around. It does take some getting used to the sensation.
5	1350259200	I have fibromyalgia and was rear ended in a car accident.  I was having a hard time getting to sleep.  I am so grateful to get a good night sleep with "Spoonk"!  The mat is great for releiving "stress neck".  I especially like turning on my side and having my ear against the spoonk, I can feel energy moving thru the accupressure points in my ear.  It's a great way to start the day.
5	1350086400	I am quite pleased with my acupressure mat.  I was having back issues and it really did help.  The "spikes" are a little sharp feeling if touched a certain way so some caution about that.  But when laying on it it really helps the back.  I am considering getting another one to take to work for my chair.  I have told friends about it.
5	1349913600	I LOVE IT,AT FIRST IT WAS KINDA UNCOMFORTABLE BUT AFTER THE 2ND DAY OF TRYING IT WOW,I DIDN'T EVEN FEEL THE SPIKE POINTS ON MY BACK LIKE THAT,I JUST FELT A WARMTH FEELING AND IT FEELS SO RELAXING,AND IT HELPED MY SEVERE BACK PAINS THAT I WAS HAVING DUE TO BEING ON THE COMPUTER ALOT, BUT NOW NO MORE BACK PAINS AND MY BODY FEELS GREAT..I WAKE UP FEELING GOOD IN THE MORNING,I DON'T KNOW MY BODY JUST FEELS SOO REFRESHED LIKE A NEW PERSON,I ONLY LAY ON IT FOR LIKE 30min.AND I FEEL GREAT..I WOULD DEFINETLY RECOMMEND THE SPOONK,ESPECIALLY IF YOU GET BACK PAINS ALOT,THIS MAT REALLY TAKES CARE OF THAT..SO DON'T GIVE UP THE FIRST DAY BECAUSE THE SPIKE POINTS HURT,TRUST ME I FELT LIKE THAT THE FIRST DAY BUT THEN I KEEPED ON USING IT AND DIDN'T FEEL THE SPIKES LIKE THAT AGAIN..JUST A WARMTH GOOD RELAXING FEELING...JUST HAVE FAITH..&#10084;&#10084;&#10084;&#128077;
5	1349827200	Sponk mat is amazing.  The first time I used it, I laid on the mat for 5 minutes with my T-shirt on.  Immediately feels a difference in my breathing.  I am using it everyday and continues to be amazed at how the little spikes work wonders on my body!
5	1349827200	I first saw the Spoonk acupressure mat on the Dr. Oz show. Since I have had acupuncture for relief for my back I thought this would be a no brainer. I was not disappointed. I use it on my bare skin and find I get more relief from the pain this way but you do have to be careful when lowering yourself on the mat since it is quite intense at first. I also found that you can not wiggle around so you must find the right position the first time. I would much rather lay on this than take a pill. It's great.
5	1349827200	This thing works really well. It kind of hurts at first but after a few times its real comforting! Love it!
5	1349740800	As I slowly recline on my Spoonk mat, I feel gradual relaxation and finally just such a calmness and a significant reduction in pain as I become fully flattened out it. Definitely a plus to relaxation and diminished pain.
5	1349740800	My patient gave me this product after raving about it. The mat helps me relax at night after a stressful day.  I tried it with several other clients and they noticed a relaxation effect within several minutes. I say YES to relaxation.
2	1349654400	I can't see that this works at all! DO be very careful when you use it, I lost my balance when getting ready to use it and fell on it, cut me.
5	1349654400	I start and end my day with this mat.  It helps get the blood flowing so I am not so stiff in the morning and helps me relax at the end of the day.
5	1349568000	Its prickly! For the first couple minutes laying down on this thing it hurts a bit. But after that, you get used to it. When you're done with your session, you are pain free for hours! It works. It works really well.
5	1349481600	I'd seen the Spoonk mat advertised on other websites. I'm familiar with the accupressure principles behind it and was curious to see how it worked. The points are sharp to the touch, but when you lie on it, you don't even feel the sharpness! The instructions recommend using it on bare skin, but I think it takes a little while to get used to the feel of the points on bare skin, so don't be afraid to wear a t-shirt to lie down on it. I've been using it in bed before I go to sleep, and it is very relaxing. The cotton cover is removable, but I'm not sure I'd want to do any more than spot clean it. The mat itself is of good quality Eco Foam and the points are made from recycled plastic. There are good instructions provided and a handy carrying case, and I am very satisfied with this product.
5	1349481600	ASIN: B0052YK8ROMy Spoonk is my new best friend.This Spoonk helps me feel more comfortable in my skin.Clothes feel tight,even though they aren't,I am very sensitive and this desensitizes me.I am able to feel more relaxed and calm,not in the flight or fight mode.When I first got mine I put a sheet over it because my skin was so sensitive.I used it on my back and in a few minutes my back heated up as if I had a heating pad on it?My shoulders let go and relaxed..I told my therapist and she wanted one. I can wait to get her feedback.My legs have restless leg syndrome and I don't need to use a sheet.I put my legs directly on the mat,no problem. Then my legs calm down for the night.thank you Dr Oz
1	1349308800	they claim the "sensation" goes away after 5 minutes. I should have known that sensation is their word for pain, and no it does not go away, it still hurts after 10 minutes and more, I tried it 3 times and it just isn't relaxing at all, how can laying there in pain be relaxing,....they tell you to put some sort of fabric on top and I tried that and it makes it a little better, but you can either put so much fabric that it has no effect, or it still is very uncomfortable anyway,so the good news is it propbably does help circulation, but in a way that you will have a red irritated back for quite a while,I have to say it does look really cool, and I would have kept the product just because it looks great and seams fun and may make me look smart, but I had to be honest that it's stupid, and $40 is too much if this is just a pretty hype gimmick and I wouldn't be using it,...there must be better ways to relax,....
5	1349308800	I was skeptical that this would work, especially since my back pain was more in my shoulder blade area as opposed to the typical lower back pain.  I laid on this for 15 minutes while I read.  It was slightly uncomfortable at first but then I stopped noticing.  When I got up, my back felt great.  I am really excited about this product.  Nothing else has provided relief.
5	1349222400	The muscle on my back and neck is really tense.  The first time I laid on it I actually fell asleep after a few minutes.  I slept about 20 minutes laying on it.  It did relax my muscle on my back.  The quality seems to be very good from this brand.
5	1349136000	This was a spur of the moment purchase for me. I currently have a lot of stress in my life, and have struggled with anxiety and insomnia for years. The price was right, and I figured it was worth a try!So many of the reviews mentioned pain for the first few minutes, though I didn't feel any at all (except when I stood on it). I used it on both my stomach and back. Within about two minutes I felt blissed out. When I used it on my back, I was completely relaxed and sleepy in no time. The tension I have been carrying for weeks in my neck and shoulder area is completely gone. I am a believer!!
5	1348876800	I was watching Dr. Oz and he had recommended this mat.  I found it on Amazon and after reading other reviews, decided to give it a try.  I love acupressure and when getting massages, I prefer deep tissue.  What really sold me to make the purchase were the comments that indicated it would help make you go to sleep.  Once it arrived, I opened it up and used it and layed on it for about 30 minutes - enough time to watch a tv show.  My daugther was equally intrigued and so she layed on it for about 20 minutes.  We both went to bed and commented the next day on how well we slept!  It sent us on to a nice deep slumber - something I definitely needed.  Aside from that, the burning sensation I get from stress and from sitting in front of the computer all day long has gone away.  I try using it every night to every other night.  It is prickly once you start to use it but that feeling goes away after about 1 minute and you don't notice it at all - unless you shift positions. I would highly recommend this to anyone!
5	1348790400	I first purchased this one for my wife. She loves it. This mat helps blood circulation and sleep. I spend about 20 minutes each day to stand on the massage Mat and found it is helpful to me too. So I bought second one for my self. Highly recommend it.
5	1348790400	I'd never heard of these before until seeing them on Dr. Oz. I was so intrigued i decided to look into getting one and after reading all the good reviews I was sold. It really is amazing. I get back pain after sitting at a desk all day. Just 10-15 minutes on this and i feel totally better. I was afraid it would take some getting used to and that it would be painful, but from the very first time i used it i felt totally comfortable. While i usually use it while wearing a thin shirt, it feels just fine against bare skin. Get one!
5	1348704000	I ordered a Spoonk mat & the wrong color was sent.  I contacted the manufacturer and they graciously agreed to send a mat in the correct color.  I should be receivig the new one any day now.  In the meantime I have used the first one received.  This mat is wonderful.  I use if before going to sleep and it is so relaxing.  I have trouble falling asleep, but since beginning to use the mat, I am able to drift off much more easily and I sleep more soundly.  Thank you Spoonk!
5	1348444800	The first two times I used my Spoonk mat I withheld judgement - but by the 3rd time it was amazing how quickly I relaxed into it! I must say, I'm diggin' my new relaxation device.  It's right there at my bedside at night and when I wake up in the morning!  Chris
5	1348185600	I absolutely love laying on this after a long shift at work and my back is just killing me. It's hard not to fall asleep on it, although there are no indications as to any negatives TO falling asleep on it, it also only suggests 30-45 minutes a day. Currently I find it most comfortable to sleep on it with a light t-shirt on, though as I use it more I may reduce it to bare back. I would recommend this product to anyone that complains of muscle pain.
5	1347926400	I purchased the Spoonk mat after seeing it on the Dr. Oz show and reading the many 5 star reviews from this vendor.  I absolutely love this mat.  I have had really bad pain on the left side of my back going into the left arm... feels muscular or a pinched nerve... something to that effect.  After laying on the Spoonk mat for about 30 minutes the pain is almost completely gone.  I've had it for a little over a week and can definitely tell a difference on the days when I have not had the chance to use it.  This has definitely worked for me!  It is slighlty painful at first, but if you relax into it that pain turns to a warmness.  You can actually feel your blood pulsing.  It's quite relaxing.  The seller was awesome as well.  The product was less expensive than other places I had looked and I received earlier than promised.
5	1347926400	I think the mat is a great idea....I know some people need to use a light shirt, but after a few minutes of laying or standing on it with bare skin, you can feel the nerve endings relax and benefits begin. It's like shooting pulses and feels great, so relaxing. I know it has improved my sleep already after just a few days. I love  to roll it and use it on my neck! Stress less and use the mat!
5	1347926400	I was very skeptical about purchasing this product, but after just one use I was amazed! I will admit it was a bit painful initally, but after a few moments I slipped into some of the deepest relaxation I have felt in a long time. You begin to feel a warm sensation and slip into relaxation. After you finish it is again a bit painful as you shift your weight to remove yourself from the mat. Over all I completely back this product up and would suggest it to anyone and everyone!
5	1347926400	I ordered the " SPOONK" for my husband who has severe Rhumitoid Arthritis. I didn't tell him, so when the "SPOONK" arrived he was surprised and thought I was crazy. Well, to his big surprise it turned out to be a blessing. He LOVES it! He uses it every morning while he is enjoying his coffee. Some days he uses it if he has severe pain in the afternoon. He uses it before bedtime and has found that after use, he falls asleep quicker. I, also have used it......and LOVE it. Great relaxation!!!
5	1347926400	The shipping was super-fast. The mat works amazingly well to relieve tension by increasing the circulation. You have to be careful because the spikes are sharp but that is why the design works so well. Very well made, also it is a great idea for a gift.
5	1347926400	So, I bought this mat for a friend's birthday.  She seems to like the product and let me try it after she opened the package up.  Although I only got to lay on it for about 5 minutes, it was very relaxing - although I was scared to use it at first (seems to be sharp and pointy - that shouldn't go together with relaxing, in my mind.) and it felt good.  I may add one to my wishlist for Christmas.  :)
5	1347926400	Great service and terrific company to deal with.  Every time I use the mat(daily), it relaxes me so much, I fall asleep!  My back feels better when I wake up.  Works better then taking a painkiller!  I recommend it highly!
5	1347840000	Had this for a week, and I am really pleased.  I am willing to try new things, and heard about this one on Dr. Oz... I'd rather try a non-medicinal approach to pain relief wherever possible and this sounded like a good idea to me.After using it at least a half dozen times, I can feel a difference in my lower back and neck pain.  Not 100%, it's not a miracle, but very effective and helpful.  Yes, a little intense at first. After laying on it for 5-10 minutes I can feel my breathing slowing down and my whole body relaxing.  I have already recommended this to a friend who is suffering from lingering back pain after shoulder surgery.
5	1347840000	OMG - do I love my spoonk mat or what???  I finally know what it feels like to TOTALLY relax.  Get one soon and get on the relaxation bandwagon.
5	1347753600	I tried this mat out of desperation.  I could not afford the massages and acupuncture.  I bought one just based on the reviews.  WOW!  My husband and I now fight over the one.  I just placed an order for another.  I will not be without this miracle.  My back stopped hurting.  I can go to sleep in a few minutes.  I wake up ready to go.  BUY THIS PAD...YOU WILL NOT BE WITHOUT IT AGAIN!
5	1347753600	This is a fantastic product that has helped me dramatically feel better.  I've used it on my back and on my stomach.  Cheaper than weekly acupuncture.
5	1347321600	I received the Spoonk Acupressure Mat and tried it that night.  I have trouble getting to sleep at night but after 30 to 40 minutes using the mat I sleep better than I have in years.  I don't use it every night and find every other night works best.  This is truly an incredible mat and I would recommend it to anyone who has trouble sleeping.  It does take a few minutes to adjust to the pressure points but after a few minutes or so you can hardly feel the points, then it is very relaxing and soothing.  I also recommend this seller.  The mat arrived on time and in good shape.
5	1347235200	I bought this mat after reading through the reviews and finding multiple positive reviews from people who had fibromyalgia.  Since it's arrival I've used it at least once a day and I love it.  It's not a cure all of course, it doesn't completely take away my pain, but it helps so much.  I also didn't find it very painful on my back; it's a little like the initial sting you get from a cat scratch but that's it.  On my stomach however, it hurt like a b****.  But when I got a thin piece of fabric to cover the mat it helped quite a bit.  I definitely recommend this mat.
5	1347062400	I was having sleeping issues, problems with my energy, and high blood pressure. I saw the Spoonk mat on Amazon, read up on it, and gave it a try. I've had the Spoonk for about two weeks and I am already feeling better. Blood pressure went down and it even helped with a headache. It is a great product and worth a try. It got to me quickly as well. Thanks Spoonk Space.
5	1347062400	I use it every day. It is so helpful. I had one surgery in my back and I use it to relax. Sometimes I sleep in it.The seller is very good also. Thank you
3	1347062400	While it feels good to lay on and feels great on the bottom of my feet, it has not done anything in the way of easing pain or helping me sleep.  Had high hopes too.  But sigh....
5	1346803200	The product is wonderful. I can lay on the prongs and get all the tight muscles in my leg at one time. I used a massage ball before but had to keep moving it around.
5	1346544000	At first this product may look intimidating, but trust me it is the best thing you could ever do for yourself. It is sleep inducing, and twilight ahhhhh. You will not be sorry to get this delivered to your door. I love it!!!!
5	1346544000	This is the second acupressure mat I have bought, the first one from another manufacturer, can't be compared in quality to the Spoonk mat I bought a couple months later.  Reading reviews and to be honest after watching Dr. Oz episode regarding this product, I decided to buy Spoonk and I am in love with it!. I lay on it every night before going to sleep, it's relaxing and helps me to fall asleep faster (I was having troubles to fall asleep due to stress). Even when I'm at home in front of my computer, I place it in my chair and sit on it, I think it might be beneficial to the blood circulation on the "bottom" area and hope helps to keep cellulite away, still too soon to tell. Love the fabric and color, it's a quality mat that I recommend.
5	1346544000	I am very pleased with my purchase through Spoonk Space Inc. and would buy from this company again any time. I simply love the fact that this item is made right here in the USA as I strongly avoid purchases from China whenever possible. I also greatly appreciate the material choices (cotton/eco-foam filling & non-toxic placstic) and 5yr-warranty.After using the mat for about 2 weeks now, it definitely has a relaxing effect and stimulates blood circulation - I love using it before going to bed as well as right after waking up.It also comes in a little travel bag, which is convenient when taking it with you...since the spikes are quite sharp, it is perfect for carrying it around.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
5	1346284800	After reading many, many reviews, watching the Dr. Oz video, testimonial videos from a convention, having an interest in the benefits of acupuncture/acupressure, and believing I deserved this after always having a back with "a lot of tension" my whole life, this was my purchase.This is, so far, a three part story of a 4 star, to one star, to 5 star rating.To start, why 5 stars now?Two factors:1.) After posting my first review (below), I received a comment from the co-owner of Spoonk explaining the directions would be edited to no longer include "direct skin contact works best" for the product.  This matters more to me than the entire experience; that the possibility of my second Spoonk experience being repeated by other customers is wiped out.2.) I have a demanding job that can lead to a lot of stress of body and mind.  My colleagues mentioned late tonight they were exhausted.  I realized then that I had additional energy.  I didn't even drink coffee today! :] I truthfully believe this mat helped a fair amount with that!In short: Use an undershirt or thin cloth when using this product for best results. :]Now, my first two ratings:First trial: 4 starsI had eagerly anticipated the arrival of this item, having told many friends and colleagues I would give them my full review after a bit of time.  Wearing an undershirt and relaxing on this mat during a short 20 minute break in my day, I felt refreshed after the experience and looked forward to incorporating this practice daily, as I do plenty of travel by foot each day.Second trial: 1 starThe next day, I had read the (now past) direction that "direct skin contact works best" and decided to try this with my skin touching the mat directly, wanting the best experience out of the product.  I had heard the "feeling" of the spikes would subside within 5 minutes and I rode the feeling out.  I actually took a short nap (30-40 minutes) on the mat and when I sat up I could feel I'd made a huge mistake.  I imagine if velcro had feelings, that's what it feels like.  I looked in the mirror at a red back that felt like fresh sunburn with the compression marks and felt compelled, initially, to write this review.  After about half an hour, the sunburn sensation subsided, and the marks a few minutes after.  It was not an experience I would wish on anyone trying to relax and reduce their stress.  It sure was a great way to find out how sensitive my skin is, though.I am now, back to 5 stars because of apparent results, prompt customer service, and a promise to edit the best practices for the product.  Thank you for caring about your customers, Hans Frykman MD PhD! :]
5	1345939200	At first I was skeptical. My husband thought I was nuts. Needless to say we love the Spoonk! My husband and I work the assembly line for 11 hrs a day. It does wonders! We use it almost daily. It was an adjustment at first and now my body looks forward to it. I highly recommend this product for those who have spasming back and tight shoulders. Great stress releiver.
5	1345766400	This mat is incredible.  For the first 2 minutes it is a world of pain, like being on a bed of nail.  Minutes 5-15 it is invigorating, and energizing, you can feel a rush and if you stay on it from 30 minutes onwards, it is incredibly calming and relaxing, so much so that I have fallen asleep face up which is next to impossible for me.  This mat can be used in a variety of ways:  Morning:  I'm a slow riser, meaning I wake up grouchy.  I but the mat by my bedside and when the alarm goes off, place the mat beneath me while still in bed for 10 minutes to get the blood circulating and the energy going, then stand on it barefoot for 5 minutes while brushing teeth.  Before bed I will lie down on it for 40-45 minutes and the calming effect helps me sleep more deeply.  You can also use it face down this is more painful still,  and the harder the surface the sharper the pain,  you really feel a difference between a floor and a bed.  If you stick with it past the 5 minute mark you can't help but be impressed!  Enjoy.
5	1345507200	It is very sharp at first touch, but after laying on it for 30 mins. The first time it relaxed me, the second time it put me to sleep. Now I can't wait for me bed of nails time.
5	1345161600	I bought this mat after seeing it on a health and wellness website. At first I was skeptical but after using it on a regular basis I notice a difference. My muscles are more relaxed and I sleep much better.
5	1344988800	I bought the Spoonk mat for my girlfriend and we both started enjoying it shortly before a trip to Lake Tahoe, where it was also valuable and relaxing and complemented a Chi machine we sometimes used simultaneously. However I was especially glad to have it to use on the long drive back to the Bay Area at night as I tend to get sleepy when passing a million headlights. The Spoonk mat really seemed to help me stay alert and energized, so while I'd first recommend taking a nap if one gets sleepy driving, it is good to know about this potential 'alertness effect'. If others have experienced this or contrary effects while driving, let's hear about it! Thanks also to the company for trying to use eco-friendlier materials.
4	1344556800	I have lower back and neck tension and the Spoonk has been excellent for me. However my husband is very uncomfortable on it...hence four stars instead of five.  I suggest you use a cover (I used a pillowcase) in the beginning, then progress to bare skin. I've had it a month and use it every day. I'd even taken it on vacation with me. It has a nice carrying case.
4	1344470400	I was pretty skeptical because I'm not into the "natural healing" thing. However, if you have tight muscles in your back (in my case my shoulders) this pad will really help.
5	1344038400	I bought this particular mat due to all the positive reviews, and I couldn't be happier.  It really does make you feel amazing!  I have been using it every night prior to going to sleep, for about 30 minutes. It both relaxes me and unwinds/eases my back muscles.  I would absolutely recommend it -- money well spent!
5	1343779200	I was hit by a car about 4 years ago and have been in pain ever since. I'm desperate for pain relief, so I'll try anything once. The company had a giveaway, and I was able to win one of these mats. When I got it, I was really glad I hadn't paid for it since it hurt my fingers just opening the package. I read the instruction card completely and decided to give it a try, thinking I had really lost my mind this time.According to the instructions, bare skin is best. Go big or go home, right? So, after my shower, I arranged the mat on my bed and pillow and told my boyfriend (who couldn't get the appalled look off his face) to time me for 5 minutes. I laid down and immediately wanted to get back up....only, I couldn't move. I was being stung by 6,210 angry bees all at once. My brain is screaming, my back is on fire, and I'm completely convinced that chronic pain has finally pushed me off the edge. What kind of masochist actually pays money for this ridiculous torture device! I asked my boyfriend for the time every 30 seconds or so, trying to control my breathing. My back and neck were literally throbbing (which is that blood flow thing they talked about) and I was pretty sure I must be bleeding heavily. I finally couldn't take it anymore, so I asked him to help me up after 4.5 minutes. He looked horrified when he saw my back, telling me it was beet red and looked like a basketball with the thousands of little dimples.Here's the crazy part. When I laid down on the mat, my back was hurting. It was the normal pain that I feel all day every day. When I got up, my back DID NOT HURT anymore! Not even a twinge. I haven't been pain free in more than 4 years. It was weird and amazing. Not only was I pain free, but I was so relaxed I felt drunk. It usually takes me a couple hours of tossing and turning to fall asleep because I just can't get comfortable. I was asleep instantly. This freaky looking torture device actually worked! And that was only 4 minutes. The next day, I went for 10 minutes. It still hurt like crazy for the first 5 minutes or so, and that "warm" feeling described in the instructions felt more like white hot coals, but again, no pain and I fell right to sleep. I've had (and used) it for about 10 days now, and last night, I fell asleep on it! I woke up immediately when I started to roll over (you should be as still as possible on this thing!), but I had been on it for about 45 minutes. I'm still in pain during the day, but it relaxes me so much that I'm afraid to use it during the day. It's supposed to be energizing as well, so I'm going to try it. But I haven't yet.It's the most amazing thing. You'll think you've lost your mind when you see and touch it for the first time. And when you lay on it, you'll know you've lost it. But if you can just hang in there, the effect is unbelievable.
5	1343692800	Very good quality made accupressure mat, also came with a nice carrying bag . This mat totally relaxes me, I've used it 3 times so far and each time I've fallen asleep on it. I didn't think it was possible to relax that much on "a bed of nails" but I am so glad I decided to give this a try.
5	1342483200	I tried a SPOONK acupressure mat upon the recommendation of a friend. After lying on it for about 20 minutes, I felt completely relaxed and the stiffness in my upper back & shoulders seemed to melt away. I love using the mat before bed. It relaxes me and helps me get a really good night sleep. It's super handy the mats are washable! And that they come in a travel size!
5	1342483200	Since using this mat, I am actually sleeping better. It took me a couple of days to adjust to the sensations, but now I just relax and enjoy it. I am very pleased to have made this purchase.
5	1342396800	I saw this on Dr Oz.  The first time I tried it, I thought "I PAID FOR THIS"??There was a learning curve for me with the Spook Acupressure Mat.  DON'T try to slide into a more comfortable position.  It's much better aka less painful, to raise your body and place it in a new position.  The little plastic teeth "bite"  bare skin when you slide.  (I know, that should have been obvious.)Once I worked out the protocol, the whole experience was much better.  I have laid on my back with the Spoonk covering my neck and upper back.  Moved the Spook to my lower back and upper thighs.  Moved it again to my calves and heels.  I really enjoy the lower back, pelvis area.After a few seconds, I don't feel the sharp points - it's just pressure.  There is scientific proof on how acupressure works. For me, it has helped with back and leg pain.  I also sleep more deeply.I love alternative approaches to health.  The Spoonk Acupressure Mat has allowed me to enjoy a more restful  sleep without popping pills for pain and for sleep aid.
5	1342310400	Never wrote a review on amazon. But this item compels me to do so. It seems like a weird concept but I use it every night for my head and back. T helps w pain and makes me sleepy before bed. My kids constantly steal it from me bc they love it to. I highly recommend for people w chronic pain or who like a natural way to relax.
5	1342310400	My husband and I use the mat for different reasons and love it for the same reason. It works. It really works.
5	1342224000	I went online to buy a Spoonk after I ran into a guy at Whole Foods who was demonstrating the Spoonk.  I asked him what it was and he told me about the concept and how it works.  Being a skeptic, I did some more research online and decided to buy.  I figured that I'd give it a try for relaxation and sleep induction.  I have to say that the Spoonk works.  I use it almost every night before bed and sometimes for 10-15 min to relax during the day.  At first, I wore a T-Shirt on the mat.  After time I am used to and prefer to have my bare skin against the mat.  I feel like my body is releasing endorphins and increasing blood flow to my back that results in a deep state of mental and physical relaxation when I'm on the mat.  I'm very happy with my purchase.
5	1342051200	This is a great alternative to any body pain & any dr's medicine. The accupressure is the best, ^& cheaper than having to go to an accupunturist.
5	1342051200	Getting on it and most particularly off it, is difficult, but I really enjoy being on it and the after effects once I'm off. It definitely stimulates the circulation, I can feel the toastiness and I experience myself as more limber more quickly when I lie on the mat before exercise. I'm tall (5'10" +) and I would like it a bit longer.
4	1341964800	For over a year, i've had shoulder pain.  The Spoonk has helped me reduce this pain...I am excited and relieved!
5	1341878400	I saw this on Dr Oz's show. It was one of a few products that he recommended that really worked. I was intrigued because, let's face it....everyone wants to relax at the end of a work day and this really helped. I have back pain every once in a while and this worked. I was skeptical but now I am a believer. This product is so well made, it's unbelievable.
5	1341878400	I have used my new Spoonk Accupressure mat 3 times now.  I'm sure it will take longer regular use to truly tell how effective it is, I've been very pleased with my initial observations.  I have used it before bed and do find that it makes it very easy to fall asleep.  I also used it on sore muscles and saw a huge improvement the next day!  I only wish I could figure out how to target other muscles in my neck and shoulders that don't come into contact with the mat normally.  I think it could make a huge difference in releasing tension.  I'm excited to keep using it in hopes that it will make a difference in my stress level!
4	1341878400	When I took it out of the box I thought for certain it would hurt to use, but that isn't the case. It does feel odd put I can't call it painful. It definitely warmed up my back, bring circulation to the surface I think. I've used it a few times on my feet, not standing on it, but applying pressure while seated.It is too soon to say if this will cure all that ails me and bring World Peace (just kidding) but I am not at all disappointed.
5	1341792000	I've only had my Spoonk mat for a were, but I love it. My back and neck don't hurt as much and I am sleeping better!
5	1341792000	Amazing that something that pinches so much when you first lay on it produces such a profound relaxing feeling within minutes. I just try to relax into the pain when I first lay on the Spoonk, and within 5 minutes I find it hard to stay awake. I'm using it a couple times a day and find it hard to stay away. I love my naps. I wonder if this is why the yogis used to lie on a bed of nails.
5	1341792000	I ordered the spoonka few weeks ago and Im loving it. At first its a little scary looking at the spikes that are on it but once you lay on it it feels sooo good. Me and my husband both use and fight over who gets to use it first. I would recommend to anyone with tension in their back. Love Spoonk!!!!
4	1341705600	the Spoonk Acupressure Mat is surprisingly comfortable, and I have fallen asleep on it. But I would warn that a thin shirt is not good to wear when using it, A cotton t-shirt weight material is the best to wear I would say.  And my back did feel better after laying on it. So do I recommend it? Yes. If only for your back alone. I have not used it enough to see if it helps in other ways except that I feet relaxed afterwards too. I have to be honest and say that I was asked to write this review for a gift, which I appreciate. But if I didn't like the product, I wouldn't write a review. Bottom line is that I do like it very much.
5	1341705600	I am glad I purchased this item. I have found it very helpful in relaxing throughout the day and right before bed. It has helped with treating the chronic headaches I get and with foot pain. I would definitely recommend this to other people.
5	1341705600	Just received my Spoonk Acupressure Mat last week, willing to give it a try after seeing Dr. Oz's recommendations of it.  I've been  suffering with a number of knots and pressure point pain in my back and low back pain, even nerve impingement.  Though initially lying on this mat was far from comfortable, I am quickly getting used to it.  I make a point to spend 20 minutes on it at bedtime.  Woke after the first night after a restful sleep, and got out of bed without the customary aches and pains.  Experienced the same thing the following 3 nights!  I'm now attempting to incorporate it into my early morning routine as an energizer and 'facelift' effect as described in the booklet.  LOVE THIS MAT!!
5	1341705600	I have really enjoyed using this product. I go to an acupuncturist regularly and this mat is the nearest thing to that. I find that no matter when I use it, I am totally relaxed and stimulated at the same time. Just like when I leave the acupuncture office, I feel really good. My favorite thing to do is to put the Spoonk pad in my recliner when watching tv. Sometimes it puts me to sleep and I relax and miss the tv program which is a double benefit. I feel a tremendous circulation boost in my back muscles which help to relieve back spasms. I would highly recommend this product to anyone.
5	1341705600	I love the spoonk mat.  I totally relax and my muscles release all their tension when I lay on the mat.  I lay on my back, stomach, face and side....which is the most painful.It is the most relaxing think I do and I can't live without it.  Makes me a better person and helps me to release all my tight muscles.  A must have!!
3	1341705600	Still adjusting to it and hoping it helps with muscle relaxation. Used it with my Pilates instructor who also tried it.  It's very pretty and we will see!
5	1341705600	I am very pleased with the Spoonk mat.  As odd as it sounds, after laying on the mat I feel both energized and relaxed at the same time. I use an extremely thin cloth on the mat so I can feel the strong pressure points, while slightly softening the sharp spikes.  Maybe eventually I won't need the cloth.  ---  As it stands now, I would highly recommend this product.
5	1341705600	I love my Spoonk! It is a great way to relax after I've been working all day.I'm a massage therapist and I sometimes use it to rejuvenate myself between clients.I thinks it's the perfect drug free way to fall asleep.
5	1341705600	I am a petite woman who frequently has very sore back, shoulder, and neck muscles from lugging kids and stuff around. I have been spending too much on therapeutic massages and thought I would give this a try, after seeing it at my grocery co-op. I have to say it works great! I use it on my back, neck, and feet, and am no longer kept up at night from aching muscles. Buying the cotton one instead of the hemp also saved me quite a bit of money. Very happy with it.
5	1341619200	I love the spoonk acupressure I made a trip to St Louis MO which is approximately 200 miles.before I got there my back was hurting so bad I could not get out of the car.  I had my spoonk with me, I sat on it all the way home and my pain was gone when I got here. Works good for me Use it every day
1	1341273600	I don't know if I will b able to tell if it works... It hurts too much to lay on it for more than 30 secs...
5	1340841600	i received my Spoonk as a gift! and it has literally changed my life!!! at first i was like 'what' ... but after trying it out, i was in a state of bliss!  deep, relaxed sleep and a sense of rejuvenation and well being.  i am a believer!!!! and will not go anywhere without my Spoonk!
5	1340841600	I bought my mat on the recommendation of my friend. I have fibromyalgia and she thought it would help me. I must say that I am very pleased with my purchase. I had difficulty getting used to it when I first tried it but after a few times I really liked it. It does seem to be helping me. I'm really glad my friend watched Dr. Oz that day. All in all a great product!
5	1340582400	It may hurt for a minute or two, but I have found that my back feels much more relaxed and pain-free after using the Spoonk for 10-20 minutes.  I would highly recommend this mat at the price offered here.  Thanks, Spoonk!
5	1340582400	I have only had my spoonk a couple weeks but am definitely hooked!  I use it just about every day and it is like visiting a really zen spa right in my home!  Soon after I lay on it I begin to feel the tingling in my hands and feet and I just melt into the mat ~ I feel SO relaxed and refreshed when I get up - and centered.  I was torn about which kind of mat to get and almost went with one of the cheaper brands but I am glad I decided to buy the Spoonk.  I am going to buy the travel-size mat too so I can lay one under my back and while another one works its magic on my shoulders, neck and head.  I really cannot say enough about this product.  I have shopped at Amazon for years and this is the first time I have written a review because I want to share my experience with others who may be on the fence about which mat to buy like I was.  My recommendation: buy the Spoonk!
5	1340496000	Initially I purchased my spponk as a possible relief for lower back pain. However , not only does it successfully relieve my lower back pain but it relaxes me and puts me into a sound sleep each night. Its hard to believe that literally a bed of nails could do this. When you first lay on it its a tad scary and intense but within a minute I begin to feel heat. I lay on it 40 minutes each night!!!! My 19 yr old son loves my spoonk. Gonna get him one for Christmas
5	1340409600	I learned about Spoonk from a friend on Facebook.  She highly recommended it especially for sleep problems.  I ordered it, and two days later it arrived!  I lie on it on my back for 20 minutes before my bedtime. I go right to sleep and sleep THROUGH the night now. Pain in my shoulders and hips does not wake me up until it's time to get up.  I, also, stand on the spoonk (with socks on) while I do stretching exercises.  The spoonk allows me some down time to read a good book, too!
5	1340236800	This a an easy way to relax and rejuvenate. I have hung it on the wall for quick access and the lovely image on the back side is a serene reminder of why I use this product almost every day. I highly recommend this spoonk mat!
5	1340150400	I had been experiencing lower back pain for almost a year. Sometimes the pain spread to the muscles of the outer thigh. I was in pain driving my car, sleeping, standing...well you get the picture. I was seriously considering medication for pain. Not something I take lightly. I saw the Spoonk Mat on Dr. Oz and thought the investment was worth the try. From the very first session on the mat, my life was improved. I slept the whole night through and the next day I was waiting for the pain .... which never happened. My Spoonk is now part of my daily routine and it goes with me when I am away from home. Thank you Spoonk!
5	1339977600	I don't have the opportunity to watch much TV... however, while recently visiting my mother, I watched an episode of Dr. Oz.  On this particular segment, Dr. Oz was showcasing his favorite products.  The Spoonk Acupressure Mat was one of the items that caught my attention.  My husband frequently complains of back pain, neck pain and insomnia.  The mat was reported to help with all of these items as well as re-energize.  Not content to leave it with Dr. Oz, I went to Amazon to see if they carried the product - of course they did.  Next, I went to see how others rated the Spoonk mat.  I was pleased with what I read.  I ordered the Spoonk mat to add to an anniversary gift package I was assembling for my husband.My husband was a bit skeptical, but very willing to try the mat.  At first the pressure points were too much for him and he could only lie on the mat for a minute or two - however after about a week, he was able to lie on the mat for five to 20 minutes.  My husband now sings the praises of the Spoonk mat saying the mat helps to eliminate the aches in his back and his neck.  Even better, he sleeps more solidly and gets a good night's rest after lying on the mat before bed.Am I happy with this product - yes!  The Spoonk Acupressure Massage Mat delivered exatcly what it promised, is good quality, has a great instruction/guide and my husband is sleeping well.
5	1339977600	Bought this Spoonk for a relative suffering with fibromyalgia, but ended up using it quite a bit myself. It's an instant de-stresser and a good alternative for people who do acupunture and massotherapy.
5	1339977600	I am really impressed with the Spoonk mat. I have had acupressure treatments in the past and I found this to be very functional. What a great product!!
4	1339977600	Saw this at Whole Foods, but didn't buy it there, figuring I could get it cheaper on Amazon. It was $30 cheaper and it arrived in only 2-3 days.I was surprised at how painful it was initially. Those spikes are extremely sharp! After thinking that I couldn't lay on it with my bare skin, I tried it with a lightweight T-shirt, but that isolated the sensation so much that I didn't feel like I was getting any benefit. Next I tried a piece of sheer drapery fabric that wasn't much thicker than a nylon stocking. That too isolated the spikes so much that it didn't feel like the mat was doing much. So, I decided to just grit my teeth and try it without my shirt again. The sensation was a bit like laying on a layer of shredded glass. It really hurt and I was concerned that the sharp points of the mat poking the moles on my back might not be a good idea. But I stuck with it and after 3-4 minutes, the pain was gradually replaced with a warm sensation (and the moles are intact and not bleeding).The pamphlet that comes with it suggests that you breathe deeply while you're trying to adjust to it and I found this helped to take my mind off the pain. After about 5-6 minutes it actually started to become very relaxing. After about 20 minutes it becomes difficult if not impossible to stay awake. It's similar to the deep relaxation you get with a massage, but it is not for the faint of heart. You have to really want to do this in order to get past that initial pain threshold. If you're the type of person that gives up easily, it may not be for you. I use it for my neck a lot, with the mat draped over a tightly rolled towel and my neck positioned over that. I do a lot of bicycling (hunched over, head up, neck bent) and working at the computer so I have a lot of neck issues. This really relaxes and loosens up my neck when it is tight and stiff as a board.The literature that comes with it also offers suggestions for using it on your face, stomach and chest, but I haven't tried that yet. I've tried standing on it with my bare feet and that is too painful; haven't gotten past that pain threshold there yet, but you can sit in a chair and put your feet on it so that your entire body weight isn't pressing into it. My only complaint is that the mat is a bit small. Using it lengthwise, it covers most of the length of my mid-back up through my neck but not the lower back. Even then, it's not wide enough to fully get the backs of my shoulders, so I find I have to reposition it after the first 20-30 minute session. It will cover the length of my back if I'm not applying it to my neck at the same time. A mat about 20% larger would be much better to get everything from the lower back through the neck in one session.When you try to get up after lying on it, it's every bit as painful as when you first lay down on it, as you pry your skin off of the spikes. When you're done your skin will look like you've got a really bad sunburn, with a lot of little pock marks as well, but of course that's only temporary.If you can deal with the pain of the initial few minutes (and the last few seconds when you get up), it can have a place in your relaxation or therapy routine.Update 9/12/12: One benefit that I wasn't completely aware of when I first started using this is what a terrific sleep aid it is when I go to bed at night. If I can't get to sleep within a few minutes of lying in bed, I'll pull out the Spoonk. Within 20 minutes or so I'm asleep. Never fails. Even when I've gone to bed after having eaten something sweet or if I've had caffeine in the evening and I feel that jittery sugar/caffeine rush thing... I lay on the Spoonk and after those first few painful minutes it's like I've been given a powerful sedative. Sometimes I'll wake up an hour or so later and have to re-visit the pain as I pry myself off the mat, but I'm so relaxed that I'm back to sleep again in minutes. My wife uses it nearly every night for the same reason, since she has frequent problems getting to sleep.
5	1339977600	It took about three days of trying this mat for about 10 min., and not being quite comfortable w/ it....but then viola!...it started working!  Now I lay on it  in bed every night, and it really helps me fall asleep faster, and then sleep more deeply. I bought another one for a friend and she loves it too! I highly recommend this mat!!  I even took it with me when I was traveling because I rely on it so much. Great product!!!
5	1339977600	Due to a shipping mix up, I now have both a Nayoya Acupressure mat and a Spoonk Acupressure travel mat. I did not expect there to be a difference in quality, but I must say the Spoonk has a nicer material, and I like that it's an eco-friendly material.  Holding them up next to each other, I can see that the spikes on the Spoonk are a little larger and pointier than the ones on the Nayoya, which is probably a good thing. My mom and sister also have both mats, and they really appreciate the fabric of the Spoonk.My only complaint is that Amazon takes the maximum amount of time to mail this product.  If that is not a concern for you, this is an excellent product.
5	1339891200	I'm really happy with my Spoonk Mat!  I mostly use it before I go to bed at night as it relaxes my shoulder and neck muscles.  You think laying on a mat with things poking into your skin would do the opposite..not so!  It's the perfect size to hide behind my bed pillows, so it's always handy.  Sometimes if I need a little energy pop I will sit in a chair or on balance ball, then rest my feet on the mat.  That way I can apply as much pressure as I need.  Standing on mat with full weight is a little to much zing for me now.  All in all, I really do like it.
4	1339891200	I ordered this after my daughter did research. It is absolutely wonderful. I use it before bedtime for about 30 minutes and really relax. Both my daughters also use It and love it. I would highly recommend anyone that has issues with neck or back pain to give it a try.
5	1339804800	I have an old, very small, similar product that I had been using since 1994. When I saw this offer for the Spoonk Mat, I jumped on it. I knew the benefits of the mat and couldn't wait to get it. I lay my back on it, my neck, arms, legs, anything that's been bothering me. It helps a great deal with the pain that I have through my body and am thankful for the larger version. Not everyone may like the mat, but people familiar with accupressure may be pleased with the results of using this mat.  There have been nights when I couldn't sleep due to back pain, but after laying on this mat for a short time, I drifted off to sleep. I swear, this mat has helped me with pain where other methods have not. It won't cure any illness, but it may make physical pain or aches easier to deal with.
4	1339804800	I have petty bad neck pain and was hoping to get some relief since I tried almost every type of pillow and I stumbled upon this product while I was looking for another solution. I received my mat pretty quickly and I tried as soon I got it. It was uncomfortable feeling at the beginning but I got used it quickly. After 5 minutes I felt a calm, warm feeling spreading throughout my body. I am using this every night for 30 minutes before bed and it relaxes my body and mind. No need for sleep medications, that is for sure. I also add pillow underneath to use it on my neck. It tingles at first but it goes away and relaxes the muscles. I would recommend for this product if you want to speed up your circulation and relaxation.
4	1339804800	I had high hopes for this product after seeing it demonstrated on Dr. Oz's show, and I have not been disappointed. It certainly provides a stimulating sensation to painful body areas, and leaves a pleasant warmth after using for the recommended time. I wonder if this effect is not similar to the endorphin encouraging action of capsaicin agents like Liquid Heat.
5	1339804800	This is one of the best products for back pain. You should place a thin cloth over the mat. I use it before going to bed and I sleep very well. My husband who has back pain tried it and loves the product.
5	1339459200	I love using the Spoonk mat. It's strange at first but feels great the more you use it. I do advise covering the mat and its points with a very thin towel to avoid discomfort.
4	1339372800	I was very pleased with this product, I feel that it has helped me with the pain I was having with my shoulder.
4	1339286400	I have had a bad back and neck for the last 4 years and was looking for something like this mat. It is awesome. I use it every day after I go to the gym and it soothed and relaxes my sore muscles. My wife uses it on her feet after s long day at work. Great item!
5	1339200000	I purchased the Spoonk after seeing it on Dr. Oz.  I sleep much better.  I also use it sitting on my rocker while watching TV by placing it behind my back.  It feels very relaxing
4	1339200000	I like it because I do feel more relaxed after 5 minutes of using it. It was hard to lie on it without something covering it. I started with a thin t-shirt on and this helped. I can now lie on it with a bare back.
5	1339200000	When I saw and touched the Spoonk mat I thought it would be impossible to use but --- I love it! It actually did help my back and help me relax, contrary to what I'd first thought. My husband is still a skeptic but I am fully convinced it's a great product.
5	1339200000	I have suffered from insomnia and lower back pain for years.  It was like a miracle to get a great night of sleep after using the Spoonk.  There is no discomfort using the mat and the results are wonderful.  My kids now line up to use the Spoonk when they come over, I know what to get them all for a gift!
5	1339200000	I ordered this for my mom, not sure what to expect, but the results have been terrific. She keeps it by her bedside and says it greatly relaxes her after just 10-15 minutes. I've tried it myself and thought it was unusual, but felt strangely relaxed right after I got off of it. A handy addition to anyone's before-sleep routine!
5	1338681600	This matt provides a relaxing warming sensation as soon as it is pressed into the skin.  After standing on it or laying on it I can feel the body heat working my stressed areas.  The rubber spikes are sharper than I thought when taking it out of the packaging, but it never breaks the skin.  The spikes are arranged for maximum benefits without damage.
5	1338681600	great product. takes some getting used to. Had to ease into it slowly, but feels relaxing once you are on it.
5	1338595200	Great product to have if you have back issues. Improves blood flow to any area that you put on it. Buy it and try it out!
5	1338595200	This mat was great.  It helped me to relieve my stress and it lets me sleep well after resting on it for an hour.  It took me a while to get used to the needles.  But, you will get used to it.  It is indeed a great buy and not very expensive.
5	1338595200	At the urging of a friend, I ordered the Spoonk Acupressure Mat. I was a little hesitant to try it out - it sat in the corner for two weeks before I got the nerve to lay on it. However, once I did, I loved it. I thought it would hurt, but it's very soothing on my back. I am planning to buy two more for my children. It's awesome!
5	1338595200	My Spoonk is so amazing that I have now bought 4 of them as gifts for family members and friends. My brother-in-law swears by his Spoonk as it relieves his back and leg pain from standing all day at work. My sister loves her Spoonk after a long day of dealing with my brother-in-law. There is no reason that I can find to be dissatisfied with this product and I don't think you will find one either.
5	1338508800	I love my new Spoonk Mat! I use it before bed and find it really helps me to relax and sleep well.  The price was great and the shipping was fast.  Great product!
5	1338508800	I saw this mat on Dr. Oz and ordered 3, one for myself and 2 to give as gifts to friends and family with sleep and health issues.  ALL of us have had better sleep!!!  I use it before bed and feel relaxed within 10 minutes.  It does take some getting used to, but I followed the directions and now its no prob.  I should have gotten one for my husband, as he uses ours and forgets to put it back, so I have to go looking!!!  I would definately recommend this.
5	1338508800	This mat is even more than I hoped it would be.  It is now my constant companion and I even let my sisters use it for a few minutes when they come to visit.  I used it a few days ago to help with my migraine by wrapping it around my head and shoulders.  It really helped me. I would recommend it to anyone.  The delivery was very prompt.
5	1338508800	This mat is absolutely wonderful.  Anyone with stress in their life should use one.  It helps eliminate aches and pains and is very relaxing.  It has helped me to improve my sleeping.  I use it in the morning and right before bed time.  This can help you feel better instantly.
5	1338422400	I purchased two Spoonk acupuncture mats after seeing them on the Dr. Oz Show. I gave them to two of my sons who are experiencing neck and shoulder tension, or back pain from a leg injury. Both sons like their mats after getting over the idea that they were kind of a weird concept. (They did not see the Dr. Oz Show like I did.)They both had to get used to the feel but now find using the mats is not only helpful, but actually comfortable. One son was seeing a Chiropractor for his neck tension, and now thinks the mat helps sufficiently.Thank you for this interesting and  helpful product.
4	1338336000	I purchased the Spoonk mat several weeks ago after seeing it demonstrated onthe Dr. Oz Show. It does take some time to get used to the acupressure points because they are sharp when you first lay on it. So far though, I do find it relaxing and I would recommend it to others. I do wish that it came with a bag though.
4	1338076800	I purchased the spoonk mat several weeks ago after seeing it demonstrated onthe Dr. Oz Show.  It does take some time to get used to as the acupressurepoints on the mat are kind of sharp and you need to adjust to them.So far though, I do find it relaxing.  I gave one as a gift to a friend andshe swears that when you uses it before bedtime, she gets a longer, deepersleep.
5	1338076800	Spoonk...Thanks for making such a great product.Simple.Made well.Works like a charm.Everyone that has seen it at my house has given it a try and then bought one for themselves.Start a few minute intervals at a time, and you end up quickly making time in your day for it.Your back and muscles will thank you more than you could expect.
4	1337990400	I've had my Spoonk mat for about two weeks now. It has helped to alleviate pain in my mid and upper back. I've used it when I am tired and it seems to energize me. Last night I was extremely fatigued--feeling really miserable--and I laid on it for 45 minutes while watching a DVD. I felt much better afterward. The increased blood circulation seems to help with muscle pain and energy regulation. It's a good addition to my self-care routine.
5	1337990400	I PURCHASED THIS PRODUCT AFTER HEARING ABOUT IT ON THE DR. OZ SHOW FOR MY MOTHER. She has suffered from back pain for many years and has tried all sorts of remedies from massage to gadgets. This mat works.  She uses it everyday and it does help her back pain.
5	1337904000	I have had this mat for almost a month now and I have never had better luck with lower back, neck & leg pain relief at home! It does take a little getting use to, the spikes can be painful at times, but using a lightweight shirt really helps! If you have any kind of pain, I would highly recommend trying this Spoonk Mat!
4	1337817600	We have had our Spoonk for several weeks and it certainly does take some getting used to.  I have no problem being on my stomach on it, but the, ummm, well---there's no other word for it---the PAIN of lying on my back is fairly intense, so I need a thin piece of fabric in order to stay on the mat for more than a few minutes.  Even with the fabric, it takes awhile before the discomfort gives way to relaxation.The Spoonk has helped with shoulder tightness, lower back pain and leg numbness.  I notice that if I"m hungry when I first lie down on it, after a few minutes I"m not hungry at all, so it might be good for weight loss.  It seems to firm the skin...though I haven't tried it yet on my face.  I'm not actually planning to do that. My 2 oriental cats have been eyeing the Spoonk with some trepidation, but only one has ventured near enough to lay a mendicant paw on it, utter a surprised "YEOW", and back away.  Since then, she has given it a wide berth.  She WILL sit on my stomach while I"m lying on my back on the mat, which causes just a bit more discomfort on my part, but that bothers her not one whit. She has a touch of the sadistic about her.  The hardest thing about the Spoonk is getting off it...OUCH!  It's always at that point that I really wish I could levitate~~
5	1337644800	Finally! Found some relief from my re-occuring neck pain and shoulder tension. I usually have to go to the chiropractor and the massage therapist to help with this issue, but found that if I catch it early, spending some time on the Spoonk keeps it from getting worse.The first time I used it I got so relaxed that I felt like I needed to get to sleep immediately, so I'd recommend being completely ready for bed before using the Spoonk.
5	1337558400	I just recently received this product after seeing it on Dr. Oz. I was a little hesitant (I'm a chicken at heart!), but this morning I woke up with really bad lower back pain. It seemed like the perfect test opportunity. So, I laid on it for about 25 minutes and actually found it quite comfortable and very relaxing. Then I read about someone standing on it for 5 minutes for lower back pain, and figured it was worth a shot. I have to say, it was very difficult to stand on (think bed of nails), and I could only stand it for about 3 minutes, but when I got off of it, my lower back pain was gone! I thought it had to be a fluke, but I moved in different directions and couldn't get my lower back to hurt! I would recommend this to everyone!
4	1337558400	I wasn't sure if I'd like it, because I don't take pain well. But I like it a lot. It's very relaxing.
4	1337558400	after running around with 3 kids all day.  it is very relaxing to lay on the mat.  I wouldn't say it is going to solve your back problems but it definitely helps you unwind.
5	1337472000	By Jan J.Love it! Love it! Love it! I couldnt believe how much better Ifelt the next day. Im sold on this mat.
4	1337472000	Spoonk Acupressure Massage Mat- 100% Organic --DR OZ Best Advice Ever! 2 Day SaleWe received our Spoonk and began using it immediately. I am finding that i am sleeping longer and so deeply. I've already been telling my friends about the Spoonk!
5	1337385600	I was introduced to "spoonking" while watching Dr. Oz, so of course I decided to give it a try. At first, it takes some getting used to but once your on it a few minutes you start to feel relaxed. I use it on a daily basis & really love it.
5	1337299200	Tried it right after I received it. Did not want to stop using it, my back felt better than it did after I got an hour massage! Relief continued after session ended, my back muscles felt so loose that I kept noticing how loose they were as the day progressed. It feels strange at first, almost stinging then warmth kicks in and I just melt into the pad and say AHHH. I'm going to incorporate meditation and save time.
5	1337299200	Love this mat. A must have for any low back pain sufferer!!!! Purchased a second one for my granddaughter with neck pain. Makes a great gift for a loved one who's hurting.
5	1337299200	I saw the Spoonk Mat on the Dr. Oz show.  Immediately I wanted to get one for my son, who has suffered from back and neck pain most of his life.  He is always getting deep tissue massages which help him for a day or two, but then the pain would begin again.  He started using the Spoonk Mat and couldn't believe how much better he felt.  He thanked me for getting the mat for him, and said he will definitely use it every day.  Thank you makers of Spoonk Mat for this wonderful product.
5	1337212800	I bought this for my wife for Mother's Day.  Although it is still rather early in the usage stage, she loves it!  She uses it for her back and also for her feet.My wife had a slip and fall at work and has been having back pain off and on since November.  This mat has helped relieve the pain in her back.  She highly recommends it!
5	1337212800	Received my mat and immediately tried it. I found no problem lying down and relaxing for 10 minutes as recommended. Upon standing I noticed a very relaxed and calming feeling. I almost could have fell asleep. My husband tried it for the first time for 20 minutes and found it very relaxing and soothing. It's hard to imagine but it does work. I am so happy that I gave it a try and sent for it. I have many uses for this and can't wait to use it at night before I go to sleep. So worth a shot.
4	1337212800	I just got this mat because of reviews on this mat and overall reviews on Acupressure mats. I have suffered from back pain most of my life. It is a very nice product, and nicely put together. I can't speak all that well as to how good it works because I have only used it twice. The couple of times a did use it, it seemed to help and I had no problems falling asleep (by accident) on this mat. I don't find it to hurt at all. I will continue to use it and hope it helps. For the money it's worth a shot.
4	1337212800	I've had my Spoonk acupressure mat for less than a week, and I'm already quite impressed. At first I couldn't imagine lying on it comfortably, because the spikes felt so sharp when touched with the hand, but I found it didn't bother me at all. After fifteen minutes on the mat, I notice that my back spasms have decreased remarkably, and the effect lasts for several hours.
5	1337212800	I used to receive acupuncture from a person who studied in Korea.  This person went back to Korea after providing me services for 4 years.  After trying 4 more acupuncturists with no satisfaction, I thought I was going to have to just get used to living with the pain.  Since using the Spoonk, Dr. Oz's recommendation, I feel as if my acupunturist from Korea is back and I finally feel good again.  It helps with my back, neck, shoulder, digestion and sleep.  ILMS = I love my spoonk.  PS:  my kitty hates it!
5	1337212800	I love this mat and couldn't find it anywhere else but Amazon.  I can actually feel that the  muscles in my neck are not as tight.  I recommend this mat for anyone thinking about getting one, and no it doesn't hurt.
5	1337212800	No need tio take Aleeve after a gym workout. It is so relaxing and restful. I wish I had found this sooner.Connie B.
5	1337212800	I have been looking for something to relieve my neck and back pain.  This mat is wonderful and the day's tension seems to be lifted after spending 20 mins on it daily. My neck/back/shoulder/are problems are pretty serious and the mat is NOT a miracle worker, but for what it is and for the cost, my expectations were blown out of the water.
5	1337212800	I ordered the Spoonk accupressure mat to help relieve my neck and shoulder pain due to stress.  I am very pleased with the results and would definitely recommend  this to anyone who wants to relax and de-stress.  By using the mat for 20 minutes my neck and shoulders felt  more relaxed  and i feel the accupressure definitely helped.
5	1337126400	This is a fabulous product!  Start slow - wear a thin t shirt/thin socks and build up your tolerance.  Once you can tolerate the pinching feeling and you lay on the mat, the pinching feeling goes away and you will feel so refreshed.  So amazing that something so simple is so effective.  It really works and I highly recommend this product!
5	1337126400	This mat has been great for back pain, leg pain and cramps, headaches, sleep issues. A friend came over and asked about it. She tried it out and is going to get herself one now! Accupuncture and accupressure is wonderful and helpful, but not always affordable to do often. This mat lets you do daily accupressure in the comfort of your own home.  Highly recommend!
5	1337040000	Recently purchased this product and I have to say it is one of the best purchases I made. It takes a bit of getting used to but when you do you will love it. I have used it every night for about half an hour on both my back and legs and find it very refreshing. My husband, who has a bad back also loves it so I guess I will be ordering another. I'm so happy I watched Dr. Oz the day this was on. All in all a great product and the best customer service I have ever dealt with!
4	1336694400	This came in the mail the other day and we already LOVE it! My husband is enjoying a much deeper sleep now, and a lot of my aches and pains have been well treated with the spoonk mat. The spikes are quite hard - which hubby likes - I need to keep my shirt on still. A bit too intense on my skin, buit completely awesome if I wear a thin top :)  Thanks Spoonk!
5	1336608000	I saw the Spoonk demonstrated on the Dr. Oz show, but was still doubtful about it. Once I received it I thought it looked more like it would cause pain instead of relieving it. I was really surprised that it actually felt good to lay on, especially for my lower back. The instructions mentioned using it before bed. However, I found that laying on it for about 20 minutes gives me a little energy boost, so I prefer to use it earlier in the day. I had heard the Spoonk mentioned as being similar to acupuncture. I did not find the experience similar; I actually prefer it to acupuncture. (Also, the Spoonk does not puncture the skin.)
5	1336521600	I love my Spoonkmat. It came quickly and gave me a calming feeling from the first time I used it. Bravo Spoonkmat!Spoonk Acupressure Mat from Cotton/Eco-foam made in USA --- Dr. OZ Best Advice Ever! BACK IN STOCK!!!
5	1336521600	I was afraid it would hurt, but laid on it with a tshirt on and it was a very pleasant relaxing experience.I'd recommend it to anyone as long as they were careful when they lay down so they don't get scratched.
5	1336521600	I've been a fan of shiatsu (finger pressure) massage and reflexology for many years, both are more commonly practiced in Asia. Using the spoonk mat helps me feel light and relaxed as neck and shoulders become less tight. Deep breathing helps get past the initial prickly feeling (once you get used to it, it's not too bad). I've had it for almost a week now, so far so good.
5	1336521600	Having experienced chronic pain for more than 10 years, I am always looking for natural methods of pain relief. I am so happy I heard about the Spoonk Acupressure Mat! It is changing my life! Within the first couple of days, I knew the Spoonk was one of the best purchases I have ever made. Now, a couple of weeks later, I don't leave home without it, and luckily, it comes with it's own travel bag. If my back begins to spasm, no worry, I take 10 minutes, and the spasm is gone. If my head or neck aches, I use a small pillow underneath the Spoonk and all the tension just melts away. I even keep it next to my bed, and if I'm sleepless due to pain, it puts me right back to sleep. Thank you Spoonk for an amazing product!
4	1336521600	So, I just received my mat yesterday.  At first as many have said, it feels somewhat "weird" to lay on it.  After a few minutes though it dawns on you that you've started relaxing into it and it feels good!!  I have very sensitive skin so have been using it for short periods to see how it goes....hubby used it for the first time this morning and said, "Hey, I think I like this! which coming from him is quite a compliment :)I plan on writing another review after using the mat for a couple weeks, but so far so GOOD!  Wanted to give a 4 1/2 star review at this point, but it wouldn't let me.....
5	1336435200	Just got this wonderful thing in the mail yesterday and used it first thing last night.  Slept all night long for the first time is 15 years!  No hot flashes!  If this works every night you can bet I'm going to use it EVERY night!!
5	1336435200	I just started using the Spoonk mat about 3 days ago and have been using it every night for about 10-20 minutes  at a time. So far, I've noticed I sleep much more soundly and I wake up refreshed. My boyfriend has a lot of tense areas in his shoulders and back, so I've had him start trying it out to see how it helps him. Looking forward to discovering the results after continued use! Very well made and aesthetically interesting!
5	1336435200	You can lower yourself slowly in order to avoid a very uncomfortable pricked feeling. I use this all over: my back, neck, shoulders, feet, thighs, and more. This thing is great if you are athletic, use a computer, or are a moving, breathing human being. Buy it and one for a loved one like I did for Mother's Day =D
5	1336435200	Have used this mat almost everyday since I got it (and it was received only 2 days after ordering).  I've been dealing with undiagnosed back pain for over a year and this mat has been wonderful.  Also dealing with perimenopausal insomnia so I use this mat for 20-30 minutes before bed and sleep better.  It is really well constructed--definitely worth the money.
5	1336348800	As Darrell's wife, I got this mat as an early Mother's Day gift; tried it the night it arrived and had no problems with it being too harsh. Very relaxing to use, especially if you take time to be quiet and breath deeply. I look forward to using this daily. It's a great price imo, and I'll consider it as a gift for others as well.
5	1336262400	The mat is made of high quality, hemp and cotton fabric, and recycled materials are used to create the acupuncture spikes.  It is very well constructed.  I used it for the first time the day it arrived just before going to sleep.  I laid on it on my back with a towel curled under the mat in the neck area.  This is the recommended pose for deep relaxation.  Did it work?  All I can say is I awoke the next morning from an uninterrupted sleep with the mat still next to me on the bed.  I don't remember drifting off.  What a treat for me, as I have insomnia, and it usually takes hours for me to fall into a deep sleep.  Repeated the process on night two, trying a few more mat positions to relieve the aches and pains from a day of yard work.  Another great night's sleep.  If this continues, this mat will be a life changer for me!  Thank you Spoonk!
5	1336262400	I recieved my mat last Tuesday and have used it several times a day since. I have many health issues that this mat has given me relief from. Hasn't totally taken the pain away but I couldn't have expected that. It has helped my lower back  where I have cysts that constantly press on my nerves around my siatic nerve.  I have an irregular heartbeat that is a mystery to the doctor's and has had me in the hospital for days at a time. Not expecting the mat to help  this issue in anyway, I laid on it on my stomach for other reasons and noticed that it has helped my heart.  Not advising anyone to dismiss a heart condition by any means. Accupuncture was one thing that helped me greatly with my issues but insurance doesn't cover it and it became very costly but the mat is a nice stand in for this.  I also  suffer from insomnia and through the night if I wake up in pain I just lay on my mat until I'm ready to fall back to sleep again.  I don't use it on my feet without a thin material between but that's pretty awesome too. I contacted the company with a concern I had, which was a misunderstanding on my part, and they responded very promptly and stepped up to rectify the situation even though it was my bad.  People, what company does that type of stuff today? Kudos to  these guys for caring not only  about their product but the people who purchase them.  Unheard of nowadays.  Please forgive me if a review shows up twice from me on here but the last one I wrote didn't post but may end up showing up after all.  Bottom line, would I recommend this to a friend?  Heck yeah!!!  Wish I were rich enough to buy one for everyone I know would benefit from this mat.  Who  knows?  Maybe one day. :)
5	1336262400	I have to confess that after years of back and neck issues I was quite skeptical about yet another product that has such wonderful claims about the results. But I also knew that acupressure works! After researching the others I found Spoonk....I read the reviews and was convinced that it was worth a shot. I've only had my mat a couple of days and am just thrilled with the results. I've slept the best I have in some time, and can say that I am going to bed without neck and shoulder pain for the first time in months! Thank you Spoonk! I am truly looking forward to continued results and to telling others about my new "favorite thing"!
5	1336262400	Wow - this acupuncture pad is fabulous. I have used it both to relax and get energized. It is important to breathe deeply and slowly to reap all the benefits.
5	1336176000	I recently received this product and instantly fell in love with it. The feeling of the spikes is a little intense at first, but after a few minutes, it's the equivalent of taking a Xanax. My body and mind felt calm, and the tightness in my muscles slowly melted away. As someone who has struggled, but desperately needs to, to relax through yoga or meditation - this is an excellent alternative. I especially enjoy using it before bed.My fianc&eacute; has also used the Spoonk mat and loves it as well. He fell asleep on the very first use!I would recommend trying it the first time with thin clothing, as suggested. I chose not to do this and found myself very intimidated for the first few minutes of use.
4	1336176000	As soon as I received my Spoonk I rested my bare feet on it with slight pressure.  I have tendonitis and my left foot was aching badly after a day of gardening.  Literally, within minutes as the tiny pressure points pricked the bottoms of my feet I felt relief.  I laughed.  My tendonitis didn't magically disappear but I know relief when I feel it.  I took Dr. Oz at his word when I saw him demonstrate The Spoonk on his show. I'm sure glad I did. I'm experimenting with it to see which positions work best for me.  How simple, yet effective can a product be!
4	1336176000	Received Friday afternoon.  Used it in my lounger chair on both the back and the neck using a pillow.  Used it about 20 minutes each.  The back muscle pains went away.  The neck is still in process.  The back still felt comfortable in the morning.  I also plan to use it on my feet.  Very hopeful based upon other reviews and upon initial results.
5	1336176000	I have had back pain for many years.  I saw this mat on Dr. Oz and ordered it right away.  It is exactly as described and I received it promptly.  Dr. Oz is right!  What a great product.  Now I need another because my husband wants one.
4	1336176000	Just received this a few days ago. It comes with a mini booklet with suggested uses and FAQ, and I am starting 'slow' by using it on top of a carpet, with a thin t-shirt / garment, and only on my back. I use it for relaxation and actually fell asleep on it for a nice catnap today! As a (recreational) dancer, I have a lot of experience using a foam roller to massage my leg / hip muscles, and I am optimistic that this will be a good supplement to that.
5	1336089600	I have been getting acupuncture every month for over 11 years so when I saw this product I knew I had to have it!  I love the way it can be manipulated to reach my shoulders and neck where my energy flow is often blocked.  When I felt the qi start to move I knew I had purchased a superior mat.  (Yes, I live in the southwest and we talk like that here. haha)Unlike some of the other choices, there are plenty of "pressure points" on this mat to distribute my weight.  (Thanks to my college physics professor for making me aware of the importance of this feature...)The color is beautiful, with a nice design on the back. A velcro closure makes for easy removal as the cover can be hand washed.Thanks Spoonk, for a great product!
4	1336089600	Bought this after seeing it on Dr. Oz and it seems to work. After 10 minutes, my back cracked without even trying. So far so good.
5	1336089600	Wow! This is really cool! Had a fantastic night's sleep after using this. The feel is very different, but very relaxing. Try it, you'll like it!
5	1336089600	I am so tense after a long day at work but the Spoonk mat has helped me so much to relax. It definitely takes some time to get used to but after about 5 minutes I am so relaxed...I've actually fell asleep on it a few times. I received the mat about a week ago and use it every night. Love it!
5	1336089600	Just received the mat today...very excited.  Previous reviews regarding the initial intensity are accurate.  But breathe and focus.  Within a few minutes, a gentle warmth was permeating my back and legs.  Hard to believe that all these points could actually be comfortable...but they really are.  As someone who is looking for ways to reduce or eliminate aspirin, Excedrin, naproxen sodium, etc, I can already tell this is going to be a regular part of my wellness regimen.  Only drawback was the box it came in...taped up nine ways to Sunday.  Clearly this had been opened.  Very little packaging. None of the packing foam that previous reviewers have mentioned.  Guess UPS had a bad day.  Anyway, I strongly recommend the Spoonk mat.
5	1336089600	I just recieved my Spoonk and have used it once.  I think it is very relaxingand plan to use it every day and hope it relieves my lower back pain and also stress.  I think this is a great product. Amazon is a great place to find products liked by Dr. OZ.
4	1336003200	I purchased the mat because I have suffered from low back pain for 20 years.  After lying on the mat for 20 minutes, I could feel a loosening of my back muscles.  It does take a bit of time to get used to, but well worth the investment of time.  I am going to purchase one for my brother also.
5	1336003200	I have been on pain medication for Fibromyalgia for more than 8 years.  I have tried, seriously, everything from accupuncture, deep massage, narcotic medication, etc all with only slight relief.  I bought this since I believe in DR OZ so I figured he wouldn't steer me wrong.I am not going to lie -- the first 4-5 minutes were a little uncomforteable on bare skin (easily fixed with a thin t-shirt) but after that, words can't describe the incredible  feeling that the mat provides.  I am an RN and don't usually suggest products because I don't want to steer people to a direction I don't believe  in ... but I whole heartedly believe that this is the answer for so many back/neck pain sufferers like myself.  I didn't want to get off after my kitchen timer went off after 20 minutes.  It is two hours later and I still feel the warming effect that it brought to me by laying on the mat.  And the heat isn't like your typical heating pad -- it almost feels as if the heat is reaching down INTO your muscles.Then, I was  pleasantly surprised to find out that it feels INCREDIBLE when you lay on your stomach with a t-shirt on (as suggested in the pamphlet that comes with the mat).  I even enjoyed  the way it feels when you stand on it, again as suggested in product pamphlet.I feel like I could continue to write, but people don't read long reviews so I want to keep this as short as possible while still conveying my true belief that this mat is going to be part of my daily routine from now on.  Thank you to whoever developed this mat and made it an affordable alternative to all those expensive other tools and medications out there that I am sure many of you have tried in disgust as I have.  Buy this product, you wont be disappointed.
4	1336003200	When I saw this on Amazon, I admit I wasn't sure.  But I have alot of lower back pain and was willing to give it a try.  Like so many others have said, it takes a little while to get used to using it on bare skin.  But when I do, I get a very warm feeling in those areas.  After a little while, that warmth helps my muscles relax.  After a long day working on the computer, I like to put the spoonk on top of my rolled up yoga mat and rest my neck and shoulders on it.  I can't stay there for too long yet, but it does help all those tense muscles relax.
5	1336003200	This mat is a bit scary when you first open the package: quite large and the plastic bristles are quite sharp. But I'm in heaven now, just leaning against the mat on my couch. The color is nice, there is no odor, and the cover opens for insert cleaning and replacement. Yeah, I ordered this on the spot when Dr. Oz recommended this, and not the more expensive hemp version. This cheaper alternative is excellent!
4	1335744000	I have experienced a lot of neck tension lately which is why I bought this mat.  After the initial pain of the first five minutes, my body felt extremely warm as I relaxed into the mat.  It's not a miracle, but it definitely helps to relieve tension and gets me ready for sleep.  The fabric is good quality as well.
5	1335312000	I first discovered this last October and after suffering foot pain for over two years, I became pain free after only a few short weeks of daily use!  I noticed an improvement immediately, but was amazed that I have been pain free for over six months!!  I stand alot in my job and also lift heavy objects - 20 to 40 minutes on my Spoonk in the evening and I am refreshed, relaxed and now enjoy the best sleep of my life.  I tell EVERYONE about my Spoonk and would recommend this for anyone, whether you suffer any pain or not, just the rejuvenation and peaceful sleep you'll enjoy make this the best product of the century!!!  Thank you, Spoonk, for changing my life!  -Nancy
4	1335225600	DAY 1 - Received Spoonk, laid on it for 20 mintues, with bare skin.  First little while was uncomfortable then I felt the warmth and it started to feel pretty good.  At one point I put a little more pressure on the mat with my upper shoulder and neck area.  Felt pretty good for the rest of the evening.  DAY 3 - Body and legs were a bit sore from all the moving that I did the previous day.  Laid on the Spoonk and fell asleep - 50 minutes went by.  I was surprised that I fell asleep.  Legs were aching too.  So I moved the Spoonk to the bottom half of the body.  DAY 4 - Entire body was feeling great when I got up.  Did spring clean up and washed the car during the day.  Took a long bath and used the Spoonk, I was on it for 43 minutes - it was relaxing.  DAY 5 - Body felt great - only a little achy after yesterday's spring clean up.  I normally get very sore the day after my spring clean up.  CONCLUSION:  My body seems to respond well to the Spoonk, I will definitely continue using it as required.  Thanks for a great product!!!!
5	1335139200	My hubby is a massage therapist and called from work to tell me about this mat.  I went straight to amazon.com, cuz we all know best prices are found here, and viewed the info.  LOL!  Immediately ordered one in each color.  He calls daily from work to see if they are here yet.  I have nerve damage from a spinal injury so am always looking for pain relief.  Blissfully, I am here to report I found it!  My mat provides relief in all areas.  I cannot wait to try it before bed.  Oh, I am writing my dissertation and sit long hours.  I have been sitting on my mat and have less fatigue than usual.  Bonus!!!  Thank you spoonk 8!  A quality product at an exceptional price!
5	1335139200	So many items on site to choose which one to get; prices varied so it was tempting to go for less. But I looked at the customer reviews to help in my choice, still new & getting used to it.  But it makes me be still and breath, laying on the mat or taking time to rest but both seem to help in tension on backCost less then seeing a acupuncturist, which does help me, but money tight.  Compromised on the Spoonk mat and excited once a made my decision.  Pleased how quickly it arrived.  Made in USA also helped in my choice to buy.  No odor and light to move and store.  Quality good and pleased to read items not glued on.I have tried on my front, each side  and back, my lower back is main reason I got this. Nice surprise to notice relief. My teen girls have also tried.  I'm using light clothes till I get next step of bare back, it seems to work and I have done some excercises on this.  I would recommend very easy to use listen to music, tv or just the quiet.
5	1335139200	I first tried this product out at work when my co-worker brought this in and being the curious person I was, I decided to try it out for a few minutes and, needless to say I really was amazed with the after effects of using the mat for just a few minutes. So I decided to purchase a mat and, I received in a couple days, The color of the mat is quite beautiful, and a nice design on the back. I thought I would be getting a bag to hold my mat in like my co-worker did, but that's ok I can store in another travel bag. I've been using this mat everyday sometimes twice a day and, sometimes I try it with clothes and clothes off! The clothes off part takes some getting use to LOL it's pretty intense especially if you aren't use to the sensation of the acupressure knobs poking in the back, but I did try it out and after a minute of two the intense sensation went away and I actually felt more relaxed and fell asleep for a good 30 minutes on the mat with no shirt on. I just put a towel on top of me in case I got cold. I can tell that after using the mat I have increased circulation, I feel like I am more energized after using the mat and I just feel better after using the mat. I let my mom try it out since she has sciatica and, she really loves it, she felt a big difference after just 20 minutes on the mat, so I am gonna go purchase another one for her and surprise her with it on mother's day.  ^_^ So I give the Spoonk 2 thumbs up and 5 stars. Thanks for making such a great product and keep up the good work!
5	1335052800	I've tried a different brand, and found the pressure spikes to be a little too sharp. The Spoonk mat is just right...enough to be just bordering painful (for me), but eventually very soothing. The mat material seems rugged and should last indefinitely. It's also great to see that Spoonk is sourcing organic and environmentally-friendly materials to make the mat.
5	1334793600	This is fantastic! I like to use it at the end of the day when I've sat too long at a desk. Usually I lay on Spoonk for about 30 minutes. At first it felt too prickly but I quickly became accustomed to it and it feels so great I have actually fallen asleep on it! I had a pain in my shoulder that has since disappeared; I sleep really well at night and feel so relaxed after laying on it.  Feels super on my feet too
5	1334793600	This product does exactly what it says it will do! Both my husband and I noticed a considerable difference in the quality of sleep we received and how much tension was released after the first time we used it (before going to bed). I felt like I had an hour massage (I was on the mat for about 40 minutes). I was extremely relaxed! I've also tried the mat during the day and felt rejuvenated afterwards. This really is one of the best health products out there!
5	1334534400	I've been using the Spoonk mat for a month or so and love it!  I tend to have neck pain and it helps to relax me before I go to bed.  The first couple of times I wore a shirt and then started laying on it without a shirt.  I'm a believer!
5	1334534400	I have used the product for two months now and it helps me to relex my back and imrpove my sleep quality. I used to have back pain after a long day sitting in front of the computer but after I use Spoonk Acupresure mat, I feel my back muscles are not as tight as before. Sometimes I fall into sleep when I lie on the mat. I use it for foot message too and it helps with my circulation in feet. Thanks to Spoonk.
5	1334534400	I have had this Spoonk mat for a little over a week now. I absolutely love laying and standing on it. It feels great on my tight neck, back, and sholders. Laying on it puts me in a deep relaxation and if I use it for 20+ minutes I'll fall asleep. It livens up my tired achey feet when I stand on it for a few minutes. It feels absolutely amazing. I highly recommend this mat to anyone who is interested in it. Can't beat the price! I'm so glad I decided to finally purchase the Spoonk Acupressure mat!
3	1334534400	Update 2/15/14I've been meaning to come on here and update this for a while now, but keep forgetting. I have had the mat for over a year and a half now, I can tell you that for me, it has not helped at all with any of my chronic pain issues (RA, Chronic migraines, degenerative disc disease). I stuck to it pretty religiously for the first couple of months, hoping I would get some relief, but it never came. Honestly, once I realized this, I stopped using it on any regular basis, and now I only use it once in a while for stress relief. Sometimes it seems to really relax me, and other times not so much. As I stated in my original review, I did indeed receive a free travel sized mat for leaving a review as promised by the seller.Original review:I was so excited to receive this mat as I suffer from a few different chronic health issues, and have a lot of pain which also makes it difficult for me to go to sleep at night. After reading all of the positive reviews, I figure that this mat was bound to help SOMETHING!!!!  I have only used it a few times and have not made it past 10 minutes yet, but so far so good. I tried it at first with a t-shirt on, but 2 seconds in, I knew that this was not enough for me as I could not feel the "pins" enough, so I took my shirt off and WOW!!!  I know that it will take getting used to to get up to 20 minutes, but I am already enjoying it.  Sometimes it makes my back get really hot (REALLY hot), I guess because of the blood flowing, which I take as a good sign! I use it laying in my bed shorty before I go to sleep and I must say that it really does relax me and brings a sense of calm almost instantly. As far as the pain from my chronic conditions goes, I know that I will have to give it a bit more time to see if it helps those at all. But even just having something that helps me relax and go to sleep is enough for me right now. Love my new mat and looking forward to further results. I also want to add that the company offers a free smaller travel mat for reviewing their product.
5	1334448000	Both my husband and I enjoy the mat, using it before sleeping everynight.  I bought two of them so that we don't have to share and so that we can use them in our chairs while watching T.V.
5	1334448000	If you're stressed out and need some time to relax - buy one of these and slip into bliss. It takes some time getting used to but after the initial ouch - it's all beneficial and it's addicting. Thank you spookmat!
5	1334448000	Really helps with releving stress and pain in your neck and back especially.  Great for headaches and all over relaxation!!  Would definitely recommend this product!!
5	1334448000	I thought this was a great idea. It makes sense now that I've used it a few times. Before I would try to lie on my back on a stress ball or the like to get a "massage" in a particular spot that was achy or uncomfortable. When I lie on this mat, I can just relax and it gives me the same results because it helps with circulation. My back and neck feel lighter, like they are free to move the way they should. It's great for tension, and I can even sit back on it while I watch tv. My dog likes it, too, but I have to put a light fabric on it first because the pokey things are pretty pokey, especially when you accidentally lean on them with your hand (ouch). The first time I used it I did feel tingly about 10 minutes into it so I stopped, because it says to be careful if you feel dizzy, for example, so just to be careful, I stopped. Since then it hasn't happened again, so maybe my body was just adjusting to the increase in blood flow. I recommend this product to anyone who needs an easy way to ease tension and maybe for those with chronic issues. Warning: you will have a hard time getting your dog off of it.
5	1334448000	This mat is just wonderful.  Love the results it gives.  Quick shipping.  Highly recommend for beginners to try, you will not be disappointed.
4	1334448000	The Spoonk does exactly what it says it does. It relaxes you within a few minutes of lying on the mat. There is an initial pain when you lie down but within a minutes, you start feeling warm and comfortable. I get migraine headaches so I am still trying to figure out how to lie on it to reduce my migraine.
5	1334448000	I bought Spoonk Acupressure mat just few weeks ago and I really love how it helps me relieve stress and aid me to sleep. It was something you had to get used to but once you did, it will become an important  part of your sleeping routine. I highly recommend it!
5	1331596800	I have had 5 back surgeries over the last 40 years and have been living with pain ever since.  My last surgery left me disabled and I am told I will be on pain meds for the rest of my life. I went against my doctors orders and checked into Rehab. to get off the mind numbing medication.  I live in pain everyday at about a level 8 and when it rains a level 10 unable to get out of bed. I have tried every non medication approach I can afford and the ones that gave some relief, I could not afford on an on going basis.  Then one day and I really don't know how I came across this, I found out about the spoonk. It was out of my price range at first, until I found the pink one on sale. I am so glad I made this purchase as it has given me great breaks in my pain. On days when its raining I can lay on this mat for up too two hours and my pain levels stay at a 7 - 8 as opposed to going to a bed ridden 10+.I will admit the first two minutes on it can be intense, but well worth the upcoming pain reduction at about 40 min. I take this with me every time I travel and it helps me get out of the hotel beds after laying on it for about 20 min then a very hot shower back on it for 40 min. and I'm off to share the Good News of Christ with all that will listen.  I thank Jesus everyday for his grace that keeps me clean (med. free) and for my spoonk!
5	1331510400	I bought a Spoonk mat on Amazon in January with a gift card that I had received over the holidays.  I was hesitant at first that it would hurt too much, but right away I was able to lay on it with a bare back.  Luckily, I set an alarm on my phone next to me, because I dozed after about 10 minutes of use.  Every time I lay on it, I go into these little delightful naps. I now like to prop it up on my pillows and lay back on it while I read in bed right before bedtime.  It helps me get to that proper sleep state.  It used to take me hours to unwind after work, but now I am able to do that in minutes instead.
4	1331337600	I purchased the Spoonk from Amazon after seeing it demonstrated at a trade show. I've never tried anything like it before, and am enjoying it very much. It definitely helps me to relax. I even use it sometimes in the middle of the night if I'm having having trouble falling asleep. I use it about once or twice a week. A good buy!
5	1331251200	Great item to have on hand!  Our whole family likes it!  Now we want the pillow to match!  Highly recommend it for stress, headaches, fatigue, and pain!!
5	1331164800	Have been using this for a few months now and really do like it!  When I 1st laid on it I thought there was no way I could handle it, but within 2 minutes, you don't feel the "hurt" from the mat and it really does start to relax you (I tend to use it at night, on my back/neck area).  I've actually fallen asleep on the mat... I now use it more often because I know I'll appreciate the benefits after getting through the initial ouch of it.  I have also learned that it helps with my headaches - I get bad headaches when the weather changes and this mat has helped with the pressure/tension headaches.  Actually, just got done using it and my headache is much better and knew it was time to write a review!Highly recommend!
5	1330732800	It is really durable.  Comes with a bag that is really convenient.  I feel great for hours after using it; sometimes it takes a few hours to feel all of the benefits.  Would recommend this product.
5	1330646400	Prior to this mat, I purchased the Nayoya Wellness mat and neck pillow.  When it arrived from Amazon, the pillow was missing and they were out of stock, so I couldn't order a replacement.  Fortunately, I decided to order the Spoonk Mat instead.  I am glad I did.  The Spoonk mat is a better made mat.  The fabric is thicker and of higher quality. The plastic points are sharper (surprisingly not painful at all) while the other mat's plastic pieces weren't as neat (less uniform, with extra pieces plastic attached here and there if that makes sense.)  I like that the company offers a five year warranty as well.I use the mat either at the beginning of the day or the end (both if I can) for stress relief and just to wind down. I really expected it to be more painful..it took just one session to get used to the points...
5	1330646400	I purchased this as a gift for my husband, but I think I use it more than he does!  While at first I was skeptical, I've found that it really relaxes me.  I love using it before bedtime and drifting into a state of complete relaxation/meditation.  It can be a little painful at first but that soon subsides into a deep restfulness.  Really amazing!
5	1330560000	This product is fanastic. I didn't know if it would help me relax the muscles in my neck or not, but it does work. I also use it on my back and the knots I get in my lower legs.I even use it on my face for the tension in my jaws. I highly recommend you try this mat out.
5	1330560000	All in all a great product. Works exactly as described. Highly recommended for relief of all types of muscular pain. Get yours now!!
5	1330387200	Very fast delivery and a great product.  Made well and I like the way it works.  Very ingenious.  I'm totally thrilled with this product.  I hve a had back and this mat really helps so THANK YOU!!!
5	1330387200	This mat takes a little getting used to (just a few days)but I am very pleased with my purchase. I now use it every evening before bed to relax and meditate and usually end up falling asleep on it. It makes my sleep a lot more restful too. If you are on the fence about buying this, let me help you. Buy it!  It is also very nice quality.
5	1330300800	I love this product! When I come home stressed and tired I make myself a cup of tea and get my "Spoonk Acupressure Mat" and relax. Worth every dollar!
5	1330300800	I have had the Spoonk Acupressure mat for roughly four months and am finding that it helps a lot.  I frequently have tension in my upper back, shoulders, and neck.  I have found that after using the mat, these areas feel much better the next day.  While using the mat, you can feel your skin warming after a couple of minutes--I assume this is from extra blood flow to the area.
5	1330300800	I LOVE my spoonk mat! I use it every day and show it off to people when they come over (and they usually try it out).  I think I'll buy others in the future for gifts because my friends are always jealous.  I really feel like I get great relaxation from laying on it and I think it helps with back pain and tension.
5	1330300800	I bought this product as a present for my sister who does Yoga all the time. She loves it and uses it all the time now!
5	1330300800	When first using this place a this mat it helps to place a towel between you and the mat. It took me about a month to get used to the sensation. Now I find it's very relaxing. If you don't like the sensation try and stick with it. It will become relaxing.I also stand on it in the morning while brushing my teeth to help energize me for the day.ProsUse before bedtime helps relax for a restful sleep.Use in the am help energize your dayVery good qualityConsNone that I can find
5	1330300800	I love my Spoonk acupressure massage mat, and use it mostly on my back and feet. It's really helpful for balance issues when standing on it.  It gives you instant feedback if your feet are not hitting all the correct points on the whole surface of your feet, and the four points that Pilates teaches. So glad to hear that a travel sized mat is is available, looking forward to using it a lot.Louise
5	1330300800	I don't know how this mat does it, but I love it! I Sleep GREAT! I have more energy! I feel more at peace with my life! I don't know why, maybe it is just as simple as the fact that I am taking time out of my day for myself finally! But for $40-totally worth it! (Oh yes, it was a little painful at first, but I seemed to build a tolerance pretty fast!)
5	1330214400	I love my Spoonk mat!  The first time I tried it, I wondered how long I could lay on the spiky points.  But, after about one minute I started to feel very warm and relaxed!  I have mostly used it on my neck and shoulders where I hold a lot of tension. It is the only remedy that works every time I use the mat. Yoga and exercises are great, but nothing compared to my Spoonk! My only problem is that the carrying bag is ripping on the bottom.  Maybe it should be a little more durable. Thanks Spoonk Space!
5	1330214400	I purchased my Spoonk a few months ago after hearing someone in exercise class talking about an acupressure mat.  I had no idea what an acupressure mat was, but liked the sound of the benefits the girls in class talked about.  I did a little research,  watched quite a few videos, and decided to purchase the Spoonk - not only because I like to say the name (Spoonk, Spoonk, doesn't it just roll off of your tongue?), but because of the the 30 day money back guarantee, the eco foam filling-made in the USA, the stimulation points made out of non toxic abs plastic and the handy bag that came with it.When I pulled the Spoonk out of the bag I was quite intimidated by all of the stimulation points, so I laid down on it wearing a thin T-shirt.  It felt pretty good, but it wasn't quite the intense feeling I was looking for and I thought - this is nothing, I can lie down on this without protection....so the next time I laid down on it sans shirt.  OMG, it DID feel like lying on a bed of nails.  Luckily the bed of nails sensation went away pretty quickly (2-3 minutes) and it moved into a delicious, calming, almost put you to sleep feeling.I started out using the Spoonk 5 minutes at a time, and have slowly built up to 30 minutes at a time.  I use my Spoonk 3-4 times a week - sometimes more, sometimes less.  It helps relax me after spending my work days sitting at a desk.  I've found that the most benefits come after lying on it for 30 minutes or so, and even though I don't always have the 30 minutes a day to dedicate to it, even 10 minutes is enough to relax the knotted muscles in my back.  Once I get into the "zone" with my Spoonk, I will even try to find ways to put more pressure on my back, thus intensifying the delicious feeling that I get (pulling my knees to my chest works very well).I enjoy my Spoonk so much that I bought my mother one for Christmas, and she tells me that she and my dad fight over who gets to use it.  I can't compare this to any other acupressure mat, as this is the only one that I own.  I would highly recommend this wonderful mat to anyone who is interested.
5	1330214400	my cousin had told me about the mat & how terrific it was. i decided i had to try it for myself. when you first lie down on it, it is a bit painful but that soon goes away & you feel a subtle warmth leading up to a wonderful feeling of relaxation. i let me son try mine & he confiscated it. i had to purchase another one for myself!
5	1330214400	This mat relieves tension around my scapula and down my back especially for the muscles near the spine.  At first  the mat felt too spiky and not comfortable, however, after a few minutes the sensation of relaxation took over.  Now I lie on the mat for at least 30 minutes. I occasionally stand on the mat and this is nice too, but you have to work into it.  The first time or two I tried standing on the mat, I wore socks because I could not tolerate the spikes.  Now I stand on the mat in bare feet and it feels great.
5	1330214400	I've been using my mat since I received it in early December.  It TOTALLY lives up to the hype.  I typically lay on it in bed just before sleep and it really helps to relieve the tension in my back.  I have a slight curvature of my spine, so living with pain was something I was accustom to, but after using this mat I can say that the pain had decreased and I'm generally feeling loads better.  I'm so pleased with this purchase!
5	1330214400	I have only positive things to say about my Spoonk mat. I get tension headaches a lot, but I have found that lying on the mat releases and alleviates these headaches. I usually lie on it for ~20 minutes to get the blood flowing. If I have the time, I love to lie on it longer. I fell asleep on it once, which was very restful! I love how on one side, there's an image, so I can hang it on my wall and storage isn't an issue. I recommend this product to others, especially those with back and neck pains!
5	1330214400	I first purchased this mat for problems I had received after a surgery that left me with muscle problems in my back and right side. At first it was a little uncomfortable but after a couple of uses it became the best thing to have around, especially before going to bed. I lay on this every night and even before I start my day to calm my nerves and improve circulation in my trouble areas. I would recommend this to anyone and even bought my family one too after trying the one I purchased for myself.
5	1330214400	I have been using my Mat since November. Before I placed the order, I was skeptical about the reviews as to how well the product would work in releasing all of my tension. Well, GREAT NEWS, this product works great. I went all out without a shirt, and yes, the spikes do need some getting used to. After a couple of minutes your skin gets used to the spikes and you feel the area becoming warm, which means blood is flowing into the area. Before going to sleep I lay and stand on the Mat for 30 minutes combined and what a relief. My family started using the Mat and they are pleased with this product, they are still using a shirt when they lay down. I highly recommend this product and I hope this review helps.
5	1330214400	I stumbled upon this and bought it based on the other reviews.  I am a 44 year old, over-weight woman.  I have tightness/past injuries/muscle pain in my low back, shoulders and neck resulting in some arthritis and discomfort.  I typically take a med to relax and sleep, yet still wake briefly multiple times in the night.  When I use this before bedtime, even for 20 minutes, it helps me sleep more deeply and longer without waking.  It is miraculous?  No.  Is it beneficial?  Absolutely.  It is NOT comfortable, but certainly tolerable. It prickles as you lie down on it;  however when you get up, there is a fairly strong burning sensation and it takes some time for the indentations on my skin to go away.  Nevertheless, I definitely recommend it as an enhancement to relaxation and sleep.
5	1330214400	My boyfriend had been complaining about insomnia and sore muscles ever since I met him. I am a massage therapist so he has been the recipient of regular massages and has seen an herbalist, acupuncturist, nutritionist, etc. I bought him this for his birthday thinking that it probably wouldn't go over as well as I would hope and I would have to make it up to him somehow. Seriously, I was going out on a line thinking he would like it. I was expecting it to be another product that promised more that it delivered. Much more. He opened it as a birthday present and wasn't sure what to expect. (I wasn't really sure either) but I explained it and had him try it out and he has been hooked ever since. I looked at all the different brands and landed on this one after realizing that it was made of natural cork that doesn't off-gas from petroleum and was made from organic cotton.If you get anything from this review, know that I buy a lot of products from amazon and only write reviews for the ones that I am VERY happy with, so that I can assure other avid review readers that they will not be disappointed with their purchase.We love this thing
4	1330214400	After seeing the Spoonk mat on the Dr. Oz show and trying it out at my local health food store I decided to purchase one.  At first I tried it bare-skin but it was too intense.  I now use it with a very thin cloth and look forward to it helping me relax and unwind at night before bedtime. It's simple to use and doesn't need electricity or batteries to keep working.
4	1330214400	I purchased this mat after researching several types on Amazon and other websites.  I am not disappointed in my selection.  I like the pink color of this particular mat, the fabric composition and the "tote bag" for storage.  I was cautious my first try at laying on those spikes and wore a light shirt--then decided it wasn't any big deal and thereafter always lay on it with my bare skin.  Yes, I feel somewhat of a prickly spike sensation at first, but it is not painful and within a few minutes I don't feel the plastic spikes at all.  What I DO feel is a warmth that spreads across my back that is very soothing and relaxing.  Yes, I've been known to fall asleep while laying on the Spoonk mat.  I did try resting and/or standing on the mat with my bare feet--but that is too strong of a prickly sensation for me.  I also tried positioning and pressing it around my hand that has been giving me issues (tendonitis) but that wasn't successful for me either.  I much prefer using it while laying on the floor and watching TV.  I roll a towel or small pillow to support my head and neck, then position the mat so it starts at the back of my neck and extends down my back.  I've already recommended this mat to others in my family.  I've rated this product four out of five stars because it only works for my back.  I'm sure that I'll use and enjoy my Spoonk Acupressure Massage mat for many years to come.
5	1330214400	I feel energized after using my Spoonk mat. My resolution is to use it more often - especially after a difficult day. It was a great find!!
5	1330128000	this is an amazing item, very relaxing. My husband and I have both fallen asleep on the spoonk accupressure mat. It looks intimidating at first, but surprisingly relaxing and very enjoyable. I highly recommend this item.
4	1330128000	I have been suffering from lower back pain for a few months now and decided to purchase the mat to try.  I noticed an improvement after using it only 3 times.  Now after only a month,  not only has it alleviated the back pain, but I lie on it just before bed and I've noticed a drastic improvement in my sleep.  Great product.  It really works!
4	1330041600	I purchased the Spoonk Mat after seeing it promoted on The Marilyn Dennis Show, thinking " this sounds too good to be true". My concerns were migraines ( which I've suffered from for years) and lack of good quality sleep. Shortly after receiving my mat I had a migraine, so I tried it and in less than 20 minutes it was gone!!! I could still feel where the migraine was but the pain and nausea were gone :))))I use it every time I feel a migraine coming on and 9 times out of 10 it will relieve it! I've suffered for 20 years and tried everything. Who would have thought something so simple could help.I have found it somewhat helpful for sleep, I have to make it part of my nightly routine I think.....My favorite way to use it  is to lay on it with the mat under my chest and stomach and a pillow under my head.....just seems to melt the stress away.....I often fall asleep!I highly recommend this product, it's not a huge investment for something that actually works :)
5	1330041600	I love this mat. I use it every night for at least 30 minutes before bed and I sleep so much more soundly. It works better than any other sleep aids I have tried. It also works wonders on my back aches and tension/stress in my shoulders. It is easy to use and you can customize how intense the experience is just by wearing thin t-shirts or using it with bare skin. I highly recommend this product and have told all my friends to get themselves one too!
4	1330041600	I have had my spoonk mat for over a month.  It didn't take me long to adjust to the pins and needles feeling of the mat.  I have used it for a sore back as well as for headaches and it certainly helps.  My husband also has back problems and loves the mat as well.  I have just started using it before bed and it seems to be helping me sleep better!
4	1330041600	I began using this with caution . . . it was a bit painful at first.  I am still getting used to it, and lie on my back a few times a week.  I'm still experimenting with other positions.  What I am really liking is walking on it in bare feet.  As a teacher I'm on my feet much of the day, and by the end of the day my feet can be tender and tired.  A few minutes on the mat and my feet are brought back to life again.
5	1330041600	I've had back pain for years, but after seeing Dr Oz talk about it on his show, I gave this mat a try. It really works! Yes, it takes some getting used to, but it's totally worth it!
5	1330041600	I bought this for my sister who has chronic lower back pain.....She LOVES it!.....She has been using it every night and it has really eased her pain as well as made her feel more relaxed.....She plans on taking it wherever she goes.....SHe does not want to be without it!
5	1330041600	I've been using the Spoonk acupressure mat for a couple months now and I'm very pleased with it. I've practiced yoga and bodywork for over 20 years and am an accomplished athlete. The doodads are sharp so you can temper the effect by wearing clothing as needed. The spoonk is quite versatile, I like to just stand on it to rejuvenate the feet and if I've got more time I'll lay on it to relax various areas of the body. It can also be enjoyable on the back while driving. Great product!
5	1330041600	Not sure how I've been living for so long without one of these!  Using the spoonk accupressure mat is both relaxing and invigorating.  It takes a little bit of time to get used to it, but if you'll spend some time on it with direct skin contact it really will do great things for you.If you're debating between this mat and the organic bamboo one, I've used both and can't tell a difference.It comes with a carrying/storage bag that is just "eh"- it's kind of hard to get the mat into and out of the case and it's cheaply made; I'm imagining that one of these days I'll snag it on one of the accupressure points and it'll fall apart.
5	1330041600	All the benefits of an acupuncture treatment at home.I love using this mat at the end of a long day.  The points take some getting use to, but offer up great relief for a sore back, headache and to help me sleep better.I have not advanced to standing on it but sitting and resting your feet on it gives you a foot treat after a day on your feet.It's made of good quality material with a handy store sack.I had no issues with delivery, very prompt and was sent an email from the company to see how I was enjoying the product.Would recommend to anyone!!
5	1330041600	I bought this product on a whim after I saw it highlighted in a product newsletter, I think it was from ahalife? That's typically how I discover products I suddenly, inexplicably must have despite the fact that I've always lived without it.I laid on this on the floor with my neck and back a handful of times so far. With bare skin contact, it hurts! I can't see much long term effect yet since I've only used it a few times, 10 minutes at a time. But even after each session, I do feel that warm, fuzzy, tingling feeling from the increased circulation.I'm going to keep using it before going to bed and try to prolong my sessions as I begin to tolerate the pain and see how that works for me long term.
5	1329177600	I am happy with this product. It seems to be making quite a difference in my life. I watched the Spoonk Mat video on You Tube and saw some of the suggestions for use. I especially like the exercise where you put the mat on a roller and sort of roll with it (be sure to watch the video and start slowly so as not to have sore muscles like I did). It really gets the kinks out. It took a little time to get used to the prickly expectation of the mat but now I like it. I used a very light pillowcase in the beginning/now I'm down to the bare skin. I will not use with clothing because I think the sharp prongs will damage it and it doesn't reach the skin. Also have been using the mat as a foot stimulus and hand stimulus/feels good and energizes. I find I have to be consistent and not overdo sessions with the rolling exercise and foot and hand stimulus because I'm waking up parts of my body that have not been used for some time or maybe never were used.  It's a good idea to follow directions given by the company and start slowly without overdoing in the beginning if you want to avoid muscle soreness. I have great expectations for feeling good from using this mat. The Spoonk Mat itself is well made/good quality cotton that has a nice feeling to it. Comes with a nice carrying case too.  If you take the foam out to wash the cover you can get it back in the cover case by folding it in half length wise. Slips in! The customer service person I reached twice by telephone was personable and helpful. Great to talk to. Also..have not been to my chiropractor since purchasing this mat/will probably return for care but not as often. I would give my experience with this product and this company a rave/five star.
4	1326412800	I was in a wreck a week and a half ago and have been having to use lots of medicine to make the aches and pains go away, especially in my wrist and rotator cuff. I'd seen this at our local health food store and thought of buying it before but the spikes felt too sharp. I finally broke down and bought it and am pleasantly surprised -- laying on it isn't nearly as uncomfortable as I expected, assuming you dont shift or have a cat jump on you at first. After 10 minutes I felt the warming sensation and after about 15 my vision suddenly became much clearer and brighter. My only problem is that it stings after you sit up, like a sunburn, but I suppose its worth it if you're already in deeper pain. I'll probably use this on my back a few times a week and see if it speeds up the healing. You do feel a little less lethargic afterward and that's always good.
5	1322784000	I originally tried acupressure mats based on the universal positive reviews.  I have suffered from back pain ever since I began working at a computer.  I have tried all sorts of remedies from massage to gadgets.  Naturally, nothing beats a good massage, however, they are expensive so I don't get them as often as I would like.  The back gadgets available do provide some relief, but they just don't give you the euphoria of a massage.  These mats do! You get that hard-to-explain euphoric feeling after and during using these mats - not a massage but pretty good stuff.  Keep in mind the first time I got on one of these it was painful (and I consider myself tough).  Stick with it for a week and it gets much, much better - even great.  The knots are much better now and I look forward to time on the Spoonk mat. If you are reading this you probably discovered there are a lot of different companies providing these mats.  I tried over 6 of them including some of the cheapest and some of the more popular ones like the "Heavenly".  Long story short they are not made the same as the Spoonk mat.  The Spoonk is many times better quality in both the spikes and the cloth cover.  Most of the cloth covers were very thin. The Spoonk has a feeling of quality and you can tell this mat was made by people that care.  The customer service is very good on this product too - they were quick to answer my emails.  Other mats are less expensive but you will not find another mat with this quality elsewhere - the bag is nice too.Save yourself some time and frustration and just get this one.
5	1312761600	Spoonk Mat - Cotton/Eco Foam (Pagoda Blue)I could never meditate. I practiced Yoga with some success, but was easily distracted. After an onset of a type of full body arthritis, my massage therapist suggested Spoonk. I put on some classical music, covered my eyes with an eye pillow, and once I got over the bed of nails feeling, I went into a meditative state for 20 minutes. I awoke feeling refreshed and with my pain diminished. The spikes distract from body or mind pain, and then acupressure you into a tranquil state. My wife tried it and liked it so much I bought her one. Now we can do tandem Spoonking! (I even rented delightful Pipi Longstocking movie where the name Spoonk was inspired.)I also like to Spoonk with relaxing nature sounds like rainfall (from Amazon of course),and made playlists on my iPod for meditation. The Spoonk works almost every time for this meditative state. I try to do it once a day late afternoon, instead of a nap, and it works BETTER and Quicker than a nap. The Spoonk (with other things) helped my arthritis go away.
5	1311984000	Truly one of the best purchases I have made in years! Portable,flexible and can be placed in several positions. A must have for everyone.
5	1311811200	My hsuband and I were traveling thru Canada and were in a small town window shopping. His back had been bothering him for most of the 2300 miles we had driven. I saw a poster for the Spoonk Mat in a window and a display inside of a store. The store was closed, but I noted the web address to search for it later.  When we got home, I ordered one and now use it twice a day.  It won't cure his bulging discs, but he is in less pain and feels better after laying on it, and am recommending it to everyone, even without back pain, because you can just feel better using it!
4	1311638400	So far, I'm happy with the results I have from using the mat.  It does take a bit to get used to the sharpness of the points.  As another reviewer mentioned, it helps to have some fabric between one's skin and the mat.My head is particularly sensitive, so the thickness of a cotton tea towel is helping me to get past the sensitivity.  Who knows?  In time, I might even be able to reduce the thickness of the fabric.  So far, the relaxation attained is amazing!  I arise from my "meditation", definitely refreshed.In order to place the mat in the carry case, I have to roll up the mat tightly (points facing inward).  The first time I rolled it, I didn't have it tight enough.  Once I got the hang of it, it fits nicely.Good quality fabric and sewing of the items.
3	1309824000	I PURCHASED THIS PRODUCT AFTER HEARING ABOUT IT ON THE DR. OZ SHOW.  HE ACTUALLY RECOMMENDED A DIFFERENT BRAND, BUTTHE REVIEWS OF THIS ONE SEEMED BETTER.I TRIED IT AS SOON AS I RECEIVED IT.  IT IS VERY HARD TO GET USED TO HAVING PINS AND NEEDLES ON YOUR BARE BACK, NECK, ETC., BUT IF YOU USE A THIN CLOTH IN BETWEEN YOU & THE PAD, IT IS MUCH EASIER TO TOLERATE.  I DO THINK ITHELPS, BUT THEY SUGGEST YOU USE IT EVERY DAY, AND I THINK IF YOU DO, YOU WILL GET MUCH BETTER RESULTS.HOPE THIS HAS BEEN HELPFUL.
